i-aa05c2b124b18986-0	Madam President, I would like Finally, the Red-Green Government has put forward a bill to strengthen the work against honour-related crime. Although Stefan Löfven has said that the Social Democrats should be the leading force in the work against honour violence, the proposals have been delayed for two years. The investigation was completed as early as 2018, but the government is only now making strong proposals on the Riksdag table. I think we can thank the Liberals for the fact that the proposals have now arrived. Without the involvement of the Liberals and especially Juno Bloms in this matter, we might not have stood here today debating sharp proposals to counteract the culture of honour and violence in Sweden. Who knows how long it would have taken otherwise? Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries, but this equality does not benefit all of Sweden's women. Unfortunately, the problems often vary depending on whether you live in Lomma, for example, or if you live in Rosengård. The Moderates do not accept that there is an A-team or a B-team in terms of gender equality. Everyone shall enjoy the same rights and opportunities, regardless of culture or country of birth. In Sweden, Swedish laws, norms and values apply. You obey the police. You get a job. You let your daughter dress as she pleases. If your son comes home with a boyfriend, you hug him, you don't throw him out. That's how we build a strong society together. To ensure this, better regulation is needed. The proposal is a step along the way, but unfortunately it is not enough in all its parts. Madam President, I would like For a long time, the Moderates have had a large package of measures against honour-related crime. In addition to the proposals now presented in the bill, the Moderates want to do the following. We want honor crimes to be their own crime rubrication. In 2018, the Swedish parliament announced to the government that it should make honour crimes just its own crime classification. Yet the government has actively chosen not to investigate the introduction of such a thing despite the fact that it would be an important part of criminalising honour-related violence. One might wonder why the government has chosen not to even investigate the introduction of such a designation. Innocent controls are to be criminalised. We want it to be forbidden to carry out a check of innocence on anyone under the age of 18, regardless of whether the person subject to the check is not explicitly opposed to this. We believe that both the person carrying out the check, such as a doctor, or the person initiating the check, such as a parent or relative, should be able to be convicted of crimes in all cases when someone is under the age of 18 and undergoes a virginity check. We want moral police to be banned. It shall be criminal to induce a person to comply with rules or instructions aimed at upholding the honour of a particular person or group by force or undue pressure. We want to increase knowledge of honour-related violence by introducing specialised police and prosecutors to support the handling of honor crimes. We want notifications to guardians when a child has been questioned to be postponed or, in some cases, completely avoided if they are detrimental to the child. We also want in some cases to be able to hold interviews with children under the age of 15 without the guardian's consent. Finally, we want to introduce criminal liability for guardians of genital mutilation. Female genital mutilation does not belong in Sweden or anywhere else in the world. Madam President, I would like In addition to the proposals that I have just gone through, the Moderates want the deportation limit to be reduced from one year to six months in penalty value. It is a policy for women's and men's equal rights in Sweden. Hopefully, it can also appear preventive. The Moderates take this kind of crime seriously. To highlight the problems of honour culture has been associated for several years in the public debate with the risk of being called a racist or accusations of fishing in cloudy waters. It has been said that people are xenophobic. For fear of pointing out certain groups, it has been made to compromise the rights of the vulnerable. For this situation in particular, the Left Party has a special responsibility. I note that the Left Party is the only party which, through a reservation, has a lower level of ambition in this area than the government and wishes to reject the important proposal for an exit ban. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that the report on which the present proposal is based states that all persons in Sweden have equal rights to their fundamental rights, regardless of e.g. origin, religious or cultural affiliation. The fact that many of those who are victims of crimes with honorary motives have a foreign background must not affect the general approach to such crime. A fear of denouncing certain groups must not, therefore, lead to a breach of the rights of the vulnerable. ..................................................... It has not always sounded like this when it comes to honour-related crime. Hopefully that time is over in Swedish debate. Instead, all efforts can be focused on protecting individuals who are victims of these crimes and abuse. The Moderates have shown the way here, and we want to continue to do so, most recently in a government in 2022. Madam President, I would like The Moderates finally support all their reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 3.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-16	Madam President, I would like Today, a relatively new phenomenon for our part of the world has marked the lives of many of our inhabitants. Many girls and women live under strict conditions where they are monitored in detail. They have demands on what clothes they can wear, which they can spend time with or spend with, and which training courses they should choose. This kind of old-fashioned, sometimes medieval, customs and views on the family, we as a society must mark out hard against. Views and actions like this should not be allowed in any way, and it is of the utmost importance to prosecute the crimes committed in a context of so-called honor. Madam President, I would like Those who are forced to endure a situation in which there is oppression of honour risk being threatened and subjected to violence, and some even pay with their lives if they do not comply with the rules laid down by the oppressors. Whether the victim is subjected to forced marriages, assaults or genital mutilation or, in the worst case, the risk of honour killings, society must act. We have already been too slow to realise that this degenerity of culture is becoming increasingly entrenched in Swedish society. Honor-related crimes are particularly serious because they are based on the collective repression of the individual by the family and its immediate network. These girls and women are usually subjected to violence, abuse and pressure from several people in their vicinity. They are threatened and oppressed by those who should really be closest to them and those who should instead provide encouragement and support. Those who practice this oppression betray society, the family and, above all, the individual who is being subjected. It should be self-evident that in Sweden there is a high level of tolerance for individual freedom and that everyone who chooses to settle in our country complies with current laws, rules and values. When a person violates the law by, for example, committing an honor-related crime, the person must be prosecuted. The problem is that, in many cases, crimes in this particular category are particularly difficult to get close to, not least because many of the groups at risk are part of closed and isolated networks where inner loyalty to their own collective is absolutely the most important. The government's proposal is that there should be a special penalty for honour crimes but not that it should have its own criminal classification. In order to combat honour-related crime, we must have laws that focus on the issue of honor, which covers all types of honour crimes in Sweden, including failure to intervene or report honor-related crimes to the police. Instead of delegating some of these crimes to the category of violence in close relationship, they should be assigned a category of their own in the Criminal Code with other more effective criminal provisions aimed at the existence of this phenomenon. Without clear and effective laws, this often obscured coercion and oppression risks growing even stronger, so that more young girls are affected. A special offence for honour crimes should therefore be introduced, modelled on serious violations of peace, so as to extend the scope of acts often committed by several different persons and the range of perpetrators. One advantage of their own criminal classification is that the possibilities of using coercive measures are improved, which can lead to more crimes being investigated and more children in vulnerable situations being protected. Another advantage of a separate code for honour crimes is that it would increase the possibility of obtaining statistics and knowledge about honor-related crime in Sweden. We need to take the issue of honour seriously. The slow pace and lack of action shown by the government on this issue over the years are worrying. Without solid legislation for the public to work from outside, adapted to the conditions and needs that exist, we will never overcome this phenomenon. Madam President, I would like According to a review made by Dagens Nyheter, at least 146 children were missing in the Swedish school after the summer vacation 2019. In just one year, at least 146 children will be gone when the autumn term starts. The school doesn't know where they are. Usually when a child disappears, the police are engaged, and search is initiated to find out what has happened. But when it comes to children who have been taken abroad for honour crimes, they are allowed to disappear and do not even count them as officially missing. In some of these cases, there is concrete evidence that children have been taken abroad for marriage or genital mutilation. In other cases, it can be assumed that these are some kind of honour crimes. However, the figure of 146 children is a serious underestimation, as not even half of the country's municipalities responded to DN's survey. Our largest municipalities, Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, are municipalities where we know that honorary oppression occurs. But they have not provided any information. There is thus a lack of a comprehensive picture of how big the problem is in Sweden. There is no national register, and many municipalities lack action plans and procedures for what to do when they discover that children are being taken abroad. According to the Ekot survey at the beginning of 2019, only 13 per cent of municipalities carried out statistics on abducted children. This means that 87 per cent of municipalities have no idea how many children have been abducted or whether they will return again at all. Nor can they catch those who come back and who have probably experienced incredible horrors. This is a betrayal from the Swedish public. Madam President, I would like After a number of changes and proposals, it will now finally be forbidden to be married to children in Sweden. Of course, it is a good thing that one step is taken, but the punishment is far too mild: imprisonment for a maximum of four years. It's the same scale of punishment as for forced marriage. Crimes against children should always have a higher level of protection. Moreover, nothing happens if you are already married to a child today. There is no punishment for the crime of depriving a child of its childhood. The current ban on exit, which is now being voted through with all probability, presupposes such a ban that these children are found before the abduction takes place. Given that most municipalities today have no idea how many children have actually been abducted, it seems that the application of this can be difficult. The lack of knowledge that much of the public has about these problems will remain as long as efforts are lacking in this area. Furthermore, the investigation has suggested that the person who removes a child from the country or otherwise promotes the removal of a child abroad should be able to be punished with a fine or imprisonment for a maximum of one year. The Swedish democrats believe that the penalty should be higher, and we get support for this view of the referral bodies. Finally, I would like to repeat what I said earlier. The problem of honour is a phenomenon which in recent years has grown stronger and bitten into large parts of Swedish society. It is a phenomenon we will never accept and can never stop fighting. Every child, every boy and every girl exposed is a betrayal from the Swedish public and society. Crimes with an honorary context should never be accepted, and the government's actions in this matter leave much to be desired. It is time to deal with these problems seriously, and a special offence for honour crimes is absolutely necessary. I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-37	Madam President, I would like On January 21, 2002, Fadime was murdered in my municipality of Uppsala. She wasn't the first to fall victim to the violence of honor, but she's the most famous. Just a few months before the murder, she had given a speech here in Parliament about honour violence. Five years later, I suggested with a party partner that a central street or park be given her name. It was obvious that the bourgeois majority thought that this was uneasy. Instead of saying yes, they chose to put the name in a so-called name bank. There was the proposal for four years before the Liberals turned during a debate on honour violence. After four years of struggle, we finally had a majority for the proposal, four years of struggle in which I boldly pointed out that by allowing a place to bear Fadimes's name we show that her struggle was not in vain, that she was a brave woman, that she deserves to be honored and that we in Uppsala must show the same courage, condemn crimes committed in the name of honour and stand up for all women's right to their own life and their own sexuality. We fought against parties in the municipal council who talked about Swedes taking Fadime hostage to manifest the superiority of Swedish culture and that the Kvinnofridsplatsen would be a better name. Fortunately, all parties today appreciate Fadimes's place, and no party will turn a blind eye to the violence of honour. When we talk about honor-related violence and oppression, we only talk about the tip of the iceberg. Even the decisions we are about to make are about the top of the iceberg. The decisions are necessary to plug the holes we have in the legislation, but also to show that society does not accept honour-related violence and that the goal is to eliminate the oppression of honour. The Left Party has raised a motion that the government should come back with a better proposal regarding the exit ban. However, since we fundamentally share the view on the ban on exit, we will not be in favour of that motion in the debate today. We do not want to slow down the process of getting legislation through. We know that many girls but also boys live with an honorary oppression that affects them in everyday life. It affects what friends they may have, what leisure activities they may have, what clothing they may wear, what relationships they may have, and much more. Madam President, I would like When Uppsala Municipality did a survey of students in grade 9 at municipal schools in the urban area in 2018, it turned out that 9 percent of the girls and 8 percent of the boys were worried about not being able to choose for themselves who to marry or who to live with. Thus, almost every tenth student feels this concern. When I was given responsibility for the work on social issues and women's peace in Uppsala municipality after the 2014 elections, I started by taking the initiative for a programme for women's peace, which would include honour violence. I negotiated more resources for support to NGOs. I made sure we started training courses on honor-related violence and oppression. Our program was good. It contains a clear section on honor-related violence and repression with clear objectives and methods. We linked an action plan to the programme. We signed a partnership agreement with the organisation Girls' right in society, which has long worked with honour violence, when we wanted to get a clear and strong resource at work. We hired another strategist to be even more effective. The important political decisions were in place, the mandates to the RACs were in place and the resources were also available. So much peace and joy, but despite all our efforts we discovered that we did not really reach out in the municipality. It was difficult to spread knowledge and materials both to school and to social services. Many social secretaries had poor knowledge and had not taken part of the training that we had offered. Many of the notifications were never completed or closed without action, often because the victims themselves did not want to participate. I'm glad I got the structures and resources for the work on honor-related violence and oppression. It is structures that Uppsala Municipality is now working on. To be honest, I do not even dare to think: what does it look like in those municipalities that do not even have a well-thought-out strategy? It is the school and social services that can detect the existence of violence and oppression, which can tackle the problems and do something about them. We politicians can develop programs and make laws. But it is the preventive and long-term work in our municipalities that can lead to real change. Madam President, I would like During the first five years of the law on forced marriage, 365 complaints were received. Seven went to trial, and there were only five sentences where someone was convicted. A partial explanation is that it has been difficult to prove, but an explanation lies in the culture of honor itself. Much of this is done because the one raised to put the family first testifies against his parents or other family members. Even the person seeking help to escape an arranged marriage may hesitate to sentence the parents to prison for the crime. They want their freedom, but they also want to maintain their relationship with the family. For those who have grown up in the culture of honor, it is a harsh punishment to be excluded from the family community. When welfare resources are reduced, these girls are severely affected. Who will see them and who will give them support when contributions to NGOs are withdrawn, school classes are getting bigger and social secretaries do not have time to do the investigations? Additional resources for our municipalities and welfare are necessary for all girls and boys to be supported in deciding their own lives and love relationships. They do not get that right automatically because we tighten the law on forced marriage, honorary violence and the opportunity to travel abroad. The study we did in Uppsala thus showed that almost one in ten ninth graders are concerned that they will not be able to choose their future partner themselves. Among the girls assessed by the survey live in an honorary culture, 26 percent stated that parents will choose their future partner. But as much as 41 percent were concerned that they will not be allowed to choose for themselves. Some of those girls risk being forced to marry the one the family chooses. But there is also a great risk that many will accept the traditions of the family and, more or less, marry it as the family suggests, for they are, as I said, raised to always put the family first. It is our job – we politicians in parliament, municipalities and regions – to ensure that they live a life of their own choosing. We must remember that acts of violence that we can prosecute such as genital mutilation, forced marriages, beatings and honour killings begin with restrictions in everyday life. Against everyday honor, there are so far no clear laws. Mrs. Alman! I would like to conclude with Fadimes's words from her speech here in Parliament: No matter what cultural background you have, it should be a matter of course for every young woman to have both her family and the life you want. But unfortunately, it's not a matter of course for a lot of girls. And I hope that you do not turn your back on them, that you do not turn a blind eye to them.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-55	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I support all our reservations in the report, but I only support reservation 3. Several million women today live under the pressure of honor. Honorary culture includes genital mutilation, forced marriages, threats, harassment and violence where the ultimate result in honour killings. Although boys and men are also vulnerable, the majority are girls and women. Central to the concept of honor is a cultural context where the chastity and innocence of women and girls are in the balance. The family is considered to have a common honor, which means that the girl's and the woman's potential At least 100 000 young people in Sweden, as mentioned earlier in this debate, live under threat and violence or will not be allowed to choose their own partner. When families come to Sweden from areas with honorary culture there is a conflict for the whole family. Especially young girls can feel very abandoned when they cannot leave this culture when they come to Sweden, but they suffer reprisals from the family. That is why we in Swedish society must be on the girls' side and give them the support they need. No one should have to live in Sweden with threats and violence in their everyday lives. Madam President, I would like The report we are dealing with today is about proposals for amendments to, among other things, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Passport Act and the LVU. We Christian Democrats welcome the fact that the government is tightening up the legislation, although in several areas the government does not go as far as we would like. For example, in order to know what measures are needed, relevant statistics are needed. That is something I have mentioned here before in an interpellation debate with the Minister for Gender Equality. Unfortunately, the National Board of Health and Welfare has said that statistics cannot be produced because there are too little statistics in municipalities but also in different authorities. There, the government has not gone as far as it should in order for something to happen so that we can get a good basis for taking further action. With regard to the changes in the legislation proposed by the government regarding child marriage, we believe that an exit ban and a temporary exit ban can be important tools for protecting children from going abroad to enter into child marriage. However, we believe that there may be several reasons for further broadening the scope. The draft law considers the exit ban to be an obstacle to the issuing of passports as well as grounds for withdrawing passports. We welcome the fact that it is being tested preventively. But probably even tougher legislation is needed. I would like to see the kind of legislation that exists in the UK. When a child is reported missing in the UK, a court may issue a protection order enabling legal action against parents who do not return the boy or girl within 48 hours. It could be a case of the parent being detained and, by extension, imprisoned. It's tough, but I'm afraid it's necessary in some cases to have that opportunity. The United Kingdom can also issue what is called the Ward of Court, which grants powers to act abroad to take home abducted children. This is done through cooperation agreements with third countries. This is done through a so-called Forced Marriage Unit, that is, a forced marriage unit. That is something I visited in Britain a few years ago. It's under the Ministry of Home Affairs and Foreign Affairs. We Christian Democrats have for several years now in our alternative budgets allocated SEK 10 million to the NOA in the police to directly start a business like the British. Unfortunately, however, this has been rejected by the government. I would like the cooperation parties to get to grips with this issue and really try to find a similar entity. When it comes to measures against genital mutilation, it has been prohibited since 1982 under Swedish law, and several tightenings of the law have been made since then. But only a few have been convicted of the crime. In the last five years, 13 suspected cases have been registered with the Prosecutor General. Globally, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has estimated that around 140 million girls and women in the world are sexually grafted. These are incredible figures. UNICEF estimates that 3 million girls are sexually stymied each year. Despite the fact that this is illegal within the EU, the EU estimates that around 600 000 people living in Europe have been subjected to female circumcision, and another 180 000 girls are estimated to be at high risk in the 13 EU countries with data on it. This cruel crime violates the Convention on the Rights of the Child and women's human rights. In Sweden, we have a sentence of two to six years in prison regardless of whether the operation is carried out in Sweden or abroad. That's good. However, in order to be able to discover this, we Christian Democrats believe that there is a need for increased knowledge in the judicial system, but perhaps especially in the field of education and social services, on how to detect and prevent girls and women being subjected to genital mutilation. Unfortunately, the majority reject our proposal in this area. What we have also been pushing for a long time is that the legislation must be clear in terms of violence of honour and repression and that, as many have mentioned here before, there is therefore a need for a special criminal classification for honour-related crimes. It would promote the possibility of punishing several persons involved in a crime in the name of honour. There must never be impunity for honour-related crimes. The government has set up an investigation, and we believe that the government must now urgently return to Parliament as soon as there is a proposal from the investigation and when it has presented its final report. During 2013, the County Administrative Board of Östergötland was commissioned by the Government to develop its competence team into a national competence team. It has helped raise the level of competence in the country, and it supports police officers, social services, schools and so on. The red-green government has created a more uncertain existence for the team's work. When the Gender Equality Agency was set up, it was first intended to close down operations at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland, but after protests from the Christian Democrats among others, the proposal was withdrawn. However, the government has now only said that the activities will remain in place for a few years and then be evaluated, and no decision has yet been taken to establish this particular competence centre. Finally, Madam President, in order to combat standards of honour, Sweden must have proper integration. We cannot watch exclusion areas create their own standards and values. From day one, therefore, when you arrive as an asylum seeker, it must be clear what standards and values apply in Sweden. Girls and women need to know early what their rights are. Today, many asylum seekers have to wait until they are granted a residence permit before they receive SFI, Swedish for immigrants, social information or any type of employment. For many, it takes a long time to get your residence permit; it can be several years. That is why we Christian Democrats have proposed that, from day one, asylum seekers should be required to be included in a so-called asylum programme with sfi, employment and social information. For those who are still exposed to honour-related violence and oppression, society must offer support. This can be about sheltered housing, but since many people are isolated from their families, they also need contact and support people. Social services must have the resources allocated and have a good knowledge of the mechanisms of honour violence, especially in terms of providing support to children and young people. Madam President, I would like Clearly, we cannot settle down after today's decision. More measures are needed in the future to protect all vulnerable people.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-77	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the proposal and rejection of all reservations. Honour-related violence and repression is a serious social problem that violates and restricts mainly girls' and young women's, but also young men's and young LGBT people's, fundamental rights and freedoms. Honour-related violence and repression constitute totally unacceptable violations of human rights and children's rights. It simply restricts young people's lives, and that is totally unacceptable. We must see – dare to see – act and counteract every aspect of this oppression, whether it is about actively oppressing or passively allowing oppression to take place. An estimated 100 000 young people in our country live with everything from restrictions on dress and career choices to exposure to genital mutilation, forced marriage and highly honour killings. To decide for yourself who you want to live with and in what way you want to live must be a self-evident right for everyone. The Bill Increased protection against honor-related crime contains important elements for us to be able to fight honour-related crime. But it must be done to a much greater extent than it is today. Madam President, I would like The Government, together with the cooperation parties the Center Party and the Liberals in the bill, proposes a new crime classification – child marriage crime. This means that it becomes punishable to induce or allow a child to enter into a marriage or marriagelike relationship. The starting point in Swedish marriage law has long been that those under 18 have not reached the maturity required to take a stand independently on personal and economic issues arising in a marriage. The possibility for a person under the age of 18 to be allowed to marry has been removed since before, which means that the minimum age for marriage in Sweden is without exception 18 years. What we are now proposing is to induce or allow a child to marry. Trials and/ or preparation for child marriage offences become punishable. Furthermore, it will also apply to those who see but do not act – thus allowing. It also proposes an exit ban aimed at protecting children from being taken abroad for marriage or genital mutilation. One of the most important measures to prevent children from being subjected to child marriage or genital mutilation abroad is to prevent them from leaving Sweden. Swedish authorities have very limited opportunities to act in other countries when an abduction has already taken place, especially when the person is both a Swedish citizen and a citizen of the other country. Therefore, the government believes that there is a need to introduce an exit ban that protects children from being taken abroad to be married away or genitally stymied. We, society, must do everything to protect these children. All in all, these measures also give a clear signal of what applies in Sweden, what society we want and that this applies to everyone who lives here. Standards and values can change, but then the rules and values must also be clear. In November, we debated the purchase of sexual acts by children. Eight weeks ago, we debated child pornography crimes. And now, today, we are debating honor-related crime. The common feature of these three debates is that it is about children. Children and young people in Sweden will grow up in safe conditions in freedom from violence and oppression – point.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-88	Madam President, I would like Legislation is a particular art species. A great deal of knowledge and deep understanding of society's functioning is required in order to be able to tackle the societal problems we want to solve with accuracy. We want to do so without compromising important principles, and we need to ensure that what we solve does not create new problems. In the area of criminal law, this is particularly sensitive. Many of the measures we are discussing are substantial intervention for individuals, and every proposal must be weighed on a gold scale. If it were so simple that we could make people behave decently, we would have done it a long time ago. Of course, that is not the case. In a rule of law, the rules must be defined very carefully and maintained with a high level of legal certainty. The bill that we are discussing today, the one about the oppression of honour, is well along the way. And it's not a minute too soon. Honor problems are nothing new. We have been embarrassingly late on the ball from the legislative side, but better late than never. The measures that are now in place are, among other things, a penalty for offences where the motive is honour, a new penalty against child marriages, which are also excluded from the principle of double criminality so that a guilty person can be convicted even if the crime has taken place elsewhere, misleading to the marriage journey and an opportunity to impose an exit ban in order to protect the person who would otherwise be removed to be subjected to one of the offences concerned. When it comes to the grounds of penalty, there are sometimes fundamental objections. The question is whether a crime becomes more serious for the victim if the perpetrator rationalises his crime in one way or another. To that question, my clear answer is yes. In most other situations, the victim has security in family and family – not in all situations of course, and I am thinking mainly of violence in close relationships that do not have honorary motives, but in many others. When it comes to honor, it is in most cases family and family that is your tormenting. The victim is extremely lonely. In fact, it is also often a case of pure violations of the most fundamental human rights. The child marriage crime will apply to both the person who causes a child to enter into a marriage- or, as it is expressed, a marriage-like relationship- and the one who allows it to happen. It will not be possible to blame and rest on passively keeping to seeing a loved one enter into child marriage. It is now being unequivocally and completely forbidden. Anyone guilty of this goes to prison for a considerable period of time. Madam President, I would like One of the worst betrayals I can imagine are parents or other close ones who trick a young person into traveling away to get married. You think you're on your way on a vacation to meet relatives and others you've longed for. Maybe you're even looking forward to getting away. But once you get there, you're locked into a life that you didn't choose and that you didn't want. The possibilities of getting out of there are very scarce, if not non-existent. And for what reason? That the family should cherish their honor? In what is there honor in deceiving and deceiving? In what is there honor in inflicting such bottomless pain? In it there is no honour, only shame – and with this bill also a criminal responsibility for committing such acts. In order to prevent this from happening, it also creates the possibility of imposing an exit ban on a person at risk, in order to prevent the journey from taking place in the first place. In order to give force to the exit ban, crimes against such an exit ban are also criminalised, so that those who do so are sentenced to imprisonment for up to two years. Attempts at the crime shall also be punished in accordance with the rules of the Criminal Code. The proposal we are debating should not be seen as a final delivery but rather as a starting point for bringing these issues higher up on the agenda. The January agreement covers 73 points in a wide range of policy areas, but legal policy is really only affected by two. One is that we must have more police workers so that the police are sufficient for all the literally vital tasks they have to carry out. The second is precisely what we are debating now: oppression of honour. So important is the question. That's how important it must be. There is also an investigation into an honorary crime of its own, which will be presented later this year. There are many interesting proposals to continue working on in the various processes of our parties among the motions that have been raised, but in accordance with the agreement that this proposal is the result of, I propose rejecting the reservations and approving the proposal.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-101	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating a sharper legislation for honour-related crimes. This is based on the efforts of many people. I would like to say a big thank you to all those who have pushed the work: Liberals such as Gulan Avci and Robert Hannah, our Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, who, at the end of the day, were sensitive to sharpening the law further, but also colleagues from other parties. Thanks to all the knowledgeable and driven enthusiasts in voluntary organizations, my former colleagues at the National Skills Team and researchers such as Hanna Linell, Astrid Schlytter and Devin Rexvid! Many thanks also to Mari Heidenborg, who was in charge of the investigation! Sturdy efforts have made this possible. However, new legislation alone will not be enough. The law against forced marriage did not stop forced marriage. Since the entry into force of the law against forced marriage on July 2014 and until December 2019, 401 notifications have been made concerning forced marriage. These notifications have led to only nine judgments. Laws are therefore important, but just as important is that the whole chain of justice works. Both police and prosecutors and social services must understand the context in which the crimes take place, as well as the vulnerability and powerlessness of victims. This is the only way in which the legislation gets its full force. Madam President, I would like The reason we have gathered here today is that we have a divided Sweden. We have a Sweden where most children go to school, fall in love and can plan for the future, but in the same country thousands of young people live in terror over what the family intends to do with them, children whose freedom and vulnerability more resemble the situation in countries that are classified as pure dictatorships. And we have allowed this to happen. One of my most important tasks in life is the struggle for children and young people to have access to security and freedom. The fact that we are making new laws today is a step along the way, but more needs to be done. Firstly, we must dare to confront all forms of oppression and stop compromising the rights of children and young people. I believe in a Sweden that is open to the outside world and offers protection for people on the run. But transparency must end where oppression begins. Each individual has individual rights and freedoms that must not be violated in Sweden. It is our responsibility to ensure that these rights are protected. This requires a national leadership that guides every social security secretary, educator, curator, police or prosecutor who meets vulnerable children and young people. Secondly, we in this House must put aside the political game. The work of all children's and young people's right to a life free from violence and oppression requires broad political agreement. The legislation we are debating today is indeed a step in the right direction. Let me mention a few examples: It introduces a new crime, child marriage crime, which can give a maximum of four years in prison. It is an incredibly important piece of legislation, which has been developed to combat the repression of honour, and a strong signal that we see the individual rights of the child. Now we look at the perspective and make it punishable for guardians to allow or persuade a child to marry, rather than the burden of proof being on the child. It will also be possible to punish the adult mate who marries the child, as well as to punish the person who performs the wedding or other close relatives who move the child to marry. It will be possible to decide on an exit ban, which will protect children from being taken abroad in order to enter into a child marriage or to be sexually stymied. It also introduces a new special penalty that means that if a motive for the crime has been the preservation of honour, it should be seen as an aggravating circumstance and be able to give a higher penalty value. These laws must lead Sweden to stand up for all those who are subjected to honour-related violence and oppression. This brings me to my third point of view: the stupor in the state's work against honour-related violence must stop. One day we hear the Minister of Justice speaking. The second day is the Minister for Gender Equality or the Minister for Social Affairs. However, one thing is certain: they do not really manage to talk to each other. This pipe thinking is perhaps practical for the Government Office, but it is totally unacceptable if we are to achieve a coordinated and effective policy that meets the realities and needs of children and young people. The red thread is missing. The results in the municipalities speak clearly: Östergötland's national competence team has made a survey of abducted children that shows that there are major shortcomings in the work of municipalities. 71 per cent of the municipalities that responded to the survey reported that they lacked procedures to deal with cases involving abducted children. Seventy-seven per cent of municipalities replied that they did not know about abducted persons, which is extremely worrying and sad. I am convinced that it would look different if it were blond and blue-eyed children who were taken out of Sweden and dumped in countries from which people are fleeing. Children are at risk of being married away, genital mutilation and in some cases murdered while the guardians in the majority of cases come back to Sweden and roam our streets freely. If we are serious about the new laws making a difference, an increase in ambition is needed when they are introduced. Both children and guardians must be given clear information about the new laws and how they work. This also applies to occupational groups facing the vulnerable. Finally, I come to the fourth point. The laws are not the end of our work. They're not even the beginning of the end. I see them as a starting point for a national power collection. In order for all professions to receive the right guidance, better national coordination is needed. We need to develop a national strategy to combat violence against children. Today, there is only one to combat violence against women. There must be a requirement for procedures to prevent children from being taken out of the country or forced into marriage, a requirement for national statistics, the obligation to follow up each missing child and a national prosecution team focusing precisely on the repression of honour. Sweden has betrayed too many children and young people. That betrayal must stop. We want to know, and we can protect. That should be the message to every exposed child. I think of the girls who describe the whole family as concierge to their sexuality. For them, a crush is combined with danger to life. For others, it results in their being forced into marriage. For some it happens in Sweden, but for others it happens in a foreign country. I am thinking of girls who tell me about systematic rapes, to which the concierge in their families has opened the door. We have put ourselves in a situation where over 100 000 children and young people in Sweden are at risk of being subjected to honour-related violence and oppression. We have over 60 vulnerable or particularly vulnerable residential areas where either criminal or fundamentalist forces are exerting pressure on residents and where the police find it difficult to operate. Madam President, I would like I refuse to be an ordinary politician. Common policies have put us in the situation we are today. I know that many people feel that Sweden can be a better country. Sweden should be the country of opportunity for all. Me and the Liberals are not gonna give up. Together, we are all obliged to create a coherent and effective action plan.
i-VNm3FNWoVZnAT9jdu39DNy	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Juno, for your speech. I can only agree that many people have been working for a long time to get better legislation in place to combat honour-related violence. Today we are discussing and debating the proposal put forward by the government. As I said in my speech, this is a step along the way, but it is not enough. Why is it that no more steps are being taken to combat this problem? I wonder, above all, where the overall thinking is.
i-Gi4pCzwPVSgyVSgfX4Smyu	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Meijer! It's something I've been pondering for a long time. I was thinking about it even when I was outside politics and about this very thing about having a coherent idea and thinking, from ears to loaf. We are all responsible for considering the division. Honour-related violence and repression are primarily within the responsibility of the Minister for Gender Equality. Today we are debating important legislation. Crime involving violence against children is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. Children who are victims of violence and require support from social services are within the responsibility of the Minister for Social Affairs. If you choose to have that division, you also have an obligation and requirement to ensure that all these parts are synchronised. One of the reasons I went into politics is to suggest good ideas, but they are scattered stars in the sky that never become a man's carriage. I think it's about the approach. First of all, I think there are six gender equality objectives. Five are about the equal distribution of power and the sixth is about serious crime against children and women in terms of violence. We must stop seeing this as a problem within the family in a much clearer way. A girl said the other day, "I live in a family that I love but that has never given me love back but only violence and vulnerability." If this violence and vulnerability had taken place on an open street, society would have reacted in a completely different way. I believe that there is a fundamental error which means that we do not take the lead and deal with those issues. I won't give up. I will fight and do all I can as long as I sit in this House. But I think there is a problem in essence. The fact that we do not have a national strategy to combat violence against children says something about how we view children.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-130	Madam President, I would like I don't have a follow-up question.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-131	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Juno Blom. No minister is taking part in the debate today, even though it is about legislative proposals being tabled. It's a little regrettable. That is why Juno Blom, who is negotiating with the government on the matter, has a strange way of representing the government. It is good that the Liberals and Juno Blom are pushing for the issue. To say that the Minister of Justice is fast-footed on these issues is perhaps to exaggerate a little. There is a great need to push the government. There's still a lot of work to be done. I raised a few points: specific criminal harassment and the fact that we have very poor statistical data. The National Board of Health and Welfare has said that they cannot produce it because there is no such thing as it. When I debated it with the Minister for Gender Equality, there were also no suggestions as to how it should be done. It needs to be clarified how the National competence team in Östergötland will be doing, which I can imagine is Juno Blom quite close to the heart. Why can't we get a Forced Marriage Unit or something in parity with it? It is also about the whole integration part. There are many elements where there is a lack of a clear strategy. The Alliance government developed a national action plan against honour-related violence and repression – I think we called it that. That's good. It should be possible to build on it if we take a holistic approach to what else needs to be done now. The Alliance government took steps forward, but now it feels like we have to push very hard for something to happen. My question to Juno Blom is: What does it look like in this area? Does she think there will be more proposals in the near future?
i-aa05c2b124b18986-137	Madam President, I would like It is important not to stand and believe and guess in the Chamber. But I'm pushing hard, and I'm convinced that everyone somewhere realizes that it's not enough to make a law. Laws are no better than the responsible environment's ability to implement them. As I said in my speech, it is therefore necessary to put the law in context and ensure that it is linked to education and information and that procedures are developed to prevent and prevent children from being taken out of the country. I'm glad you brought up the work of the Alliance Government, Désirée Pethrus. It was our current party leader, Nyamko Sabuni, who produced two action plans. The work in the different parts was synchronized. I believe that we have a duty to do something similar in order to identify what is being done that is good and what is needed. It can, as you yourself were on, be about additional legislation that can be tightened up and so on. It's too easy to say it's just a matter of law. It is a question of ensuring that they apply. As regards the National Skills Team, an evaluation is now being carried out. For various reasons, I have not been involved. But it is interesting that there are authorities who are assigned to work on these issues but who do not deliver at all. Their work is never evaluated. An important question to ask is: What is it that makes you not see the needs all the time? The National Board of Health and Welfare reported that violence against children has increased considerably, but there is not a word about honour violence in it. When it comes to Forced Marriage Unit, you'll almost have to ask me one more question so I can continue. I have also met many times with those who work in the UK. There we have the dilemma that they have former colonies that they can work with. Now my speaking time is up.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-142	Madam President, I would like As far as Britain is concerned, it is absolutely true that they have former colonies; Sweden does not have that many. But I believe – and somehow one cannot give up prematurely – that it may actually be possible to reach agreements with different countries, from which we know many come. The government should at least try to get special repatriation teams. We know that this is happening today through NGOs and that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs sometimes helps, but many feel very vulnerable. I think that we still need to try how this could work in a Swedish context. I think and hope, of course, that Juno Blom will try to push and see what can be done in that area. With regard to the second, a national strategy, I think it is extremely important that we have a strategy that takes a holistic approach to the issue of honour violence. As far as the unit in Östergötland is concerned, one can only regret it. After all, the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government wanted to have a gender equality authority. Then they took funds from concrete activities that help this group, and so they added a lot of bureaucrats to a gender equality agency. For me, this is going to be very strange. It is one thing if a gender equality authority is set up using new funds. However, the Liberals must feel that this is the wrong way to take funds from concrete activities such as the national competence centre in Östergötland. I hope and believe that Juno Blom will soon be able to say: Yes, we have now made sure that the national competence team in Östergötland is permanent.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-145	Madam President, I would like If we start with your last question, I can say that the question is bigger than that. During the 12 years I was in charge of the government's national mission, it was interesting to see the difference. As early as 2010, Nyamko Sabuni, a minister of state, set up an investigation to produce legislation against child marriage crimes. I was involved in that investigation, but this House chose not to vote through the proposal. These opportunities have thus existed in the past. With regard to the issue of serious crime being reported to a minister for gender equality, I can also feel that it should be self-evident that, as in the UK and Norway, it is a broader, cross-departmental mission. I fully share this view and have been clear about it all these years. As for Forced Marriage Unit, I myself have tried to help bring home children. There we have the dilemma that we are not so interested in bilateral agreements with countries whose people flee to Sweden. That would risk bringing in children who are here. For a much longer time, Norway has had people at embassies who are working more clearly on these issues. Now we have initiated that work, but I think it needs to be developed and made much clearer. Basically, there is one important question: these are children in our country. The majority of children I know who have been taken out of the country or subjected to serious abuse have alerted one or more government officials without any direct action. That is why I believe it is necessary to develop a national strategy to combat violence against children and bring about a change of perspective. Today, children are very powerless in relation to guardians who expose them.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-150	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by emphasising that honour-related violence and repression, in whatever form it may occur, is totally unacceptable. The number of children and young people affected is different. In a 2014 government report, 100,000 young people were estimated to live under honorary oppression. There are insanely many young people who are forced to live with virginity standards and limitations when it comes to who they are allowed to spend time with and the choice of life mates but also, and even worse, genital mutilation, child marriage, violence and in some cases even murder. It is deeply tragic, and society has a great responsibility to fight this. Let me tell you about recent figures from Malmö, where the closure of upper secondary schools has meant that young people are no longer able to seek help for the repression of honour. Malmö's coordinator against honorary violence and violence in close relationships, Margot Olsson, recently told in an interview in SVT that since high schools closed, the city has largely had no new contacts with young people who need help. This is despite the fact that isolation has increased the vulnerability to threats and domestic violence. Madam President, I would like Going to school plays an important role for young people who are under pressure of honour, partly because it is a time when monitoring is less and partly because the school staff can support the students in seeking help. In the honorary survey carried out by Malmö, Gothenburg and Stockholm in 2017– 2018, it is clear that young people themselves say that they prefer to turn to teachers and student health professionals for information and support when it comes to honour repression. What did not appear in the interview in SVT, but as Margot Olsson later said, is that in order to reach out while schools are closed, a campaign has been directed via social media to young people aged 13 to 21 years. This gave almost 4 000 new search results on the City of Malmö's page on honour, which clearly shows that the interest and, above all, the need for support out of oppression continues to be great. For the Green Party, it goes without saying that more needs to be done to counter honour repression. The government, together with the January parties, has contributed extensive resources to the work against honour repression. Regional Resource Centres for Honorable People have been established, and opportunities to make efforts for young people even without parental consent have increased. But more needs to be done. With stricter penalties for crimes with honorary motives and for those who allow or persuade children to enter into a marriage and improved access to exit bans to prevent children from being subjected to marriage or genital mutilation, we take essential steps to stop the oppression of honour. Madam President, I would like Honour-related violence and oppression are for real, and it affects children and young people as well as adults daily in Sweden. It is extremely important that we see these children and young people and that we as a society do not look away when some children are prevented from taking part in gymnastics or sex education. The same applies when children are forced to renounce certain social contacts or suffer threats and violence in order to live in accordance with family, family or group standards. It is therefore crucial that, as the government is now proposing, we approve of the penalty for crimes committed with honorary motives and that we establish a new law on child marriage offences. This is an opportunity for society to mark for those who believe that they can get away with curtailing other people's lives and helping more young people away from the oppression of honour. Madam President, I would like I would like to endorse the proposal.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-160	Madam President, I would like The bill we are debating today, Increased protection against honour related crime, is an important step in Sweden's quest for democratic rights and freedoms that apply to all children and girls. Only a few decades ago, honorary motives could be invoked as a mitigating circumstance in Swedish courts. On the other hand, with a special penalty base, honorary motives will now always be an aggravating circumstance. With the new crime of child marriage crimes, which punish anyone who in any way can or does allow a child to be married away, society shows that we are on the side of children and young girls against outdated patriarchal oppressive cultures and traditions. Sweden receives legislation that shows that the legislators have understood that honor crimes as a rule involve collective repression by the perpetrators. The new legislation on temporary exit bans will not only enable the punishment of honour-related crime, but also empower the social services, with the support of courts, to prevent children from being taken out of the country for sexual mutilation or marriage. It is the government and its cooperation parties that present this proposal. But it is we women's fighters and human rights fighters, who for decades have enlightened and educated people in the fight against honorary standards and oppression, who have pushed forward this and many other laws against honour violence. Often it has been us women with roots in other countries and with their own experiences of oppression who have taken the fight and often in the headwind. Many in Sweden have found it difficult to understand the extent of the problems. Others haven't even wanted to listen. Today, many brave women have the right to feel proud. We feel proud. For the past 20 years, both as a social worker and as an activist in the Swedish branch of the feminist and anti-racist organization, I have met young people, especially girls, whom society has failed every day and every week. I am also proud to have been the founder and chairman of the inter-political network here in Parliament, which specifically deals with issues of oppression in the name of honour. It is a strength of democracy that we have been able to agree across party boundaries on how best to protect society's most vulnerable. There are many Members from different parties who have been involved in raising these issues on the political agenda, and many of them are sitting here today. Through our network, young girls and boys living under the threat of death from their own family have been allowed to come here to Parliament and speak directly to Sweden's legislators. During the coronapendemia, I myself have been contacted by about fifteen young girls and some older women who are particularly vulnerable. When high schools, folk high schools, SFIs and universities have been closed, many have lost the only free zone of hundreds of thousands of honours. Daily, young girls around our country tell us that the home has become a prison for them. Some have been forced to flee and live protected. Most of the girls we have contact with were born and raised in Sweden. Society's message to these vulnerable must be: You are a part of Sweden. Swedish law also protects you. Society also defends your rights. Madam President, I would like Just as my organisation Neither whore nor hive has written in its referral, the new law on exit ban should also include so-called upbringing trips. This means that children, often boys and LGBT people, are sent to their parents' home countries for breeding purposes. In Denmark, there is already a ban on such upbringing trips. Madam President, I would like I note that in committee there is only one reservation against the proposal: the Left Party does not currently want to support the proposal for a temporary ban on exit. Last summer, party leader Sjöstedt told us that he thought the proposal seemed reasonable and that the party was open to support the proposal. Clearly, those words were not worth anything. In its reservation, the Left Party refers to the referrals of the Bar Association. However, since the consultation session, the legal text has been clarified in terms of the level of risk. It is a question of clarifying the risk assessment, from the risk of the investigation, to the clear risk of the proposal text, i.e. the same level of risk that social services are already working with in LVU cases. Surely there is always some detail that can be used as an excuse not to act. The reservation states that the new law can be discriminatory. The Left Party's parliamentary group seems to find it difficult to decide whether to stand on the side of the vulnerable girls and young people or whether to continue to stand on good ground with the religious conservatives and their organisations – those who reported Sweden's work against honorary repression to the UN and who believe that the social services are racist who use LVU to protect honoured young people. During the spring, the national competence team against honour-related violence and repression reported a survey showing that 199 children have disappeared in the municipalities that responded to the survey. The results of the survey also show shortcomings in the procedures of the majority of municipalities in cases involving children who are married and taken away from the country. In Gothenburg, too, a commission that has examined social services' matters concerning honour has shown that in several cases the municipality has failed to take action. The problem in the municipalities is not that social services are too active in matters relating to honourable young people. In Parliament, V wants to procrastinate important legislation that prevents children from being taken out of the country. In August, the party leadership held a press conference in which the party secretary explained that if they could just kick me out of the party, the party would appear to be clearer on issues of honour violence. That's what he said. I have now left the Left Party, but it does not seem to have helped the leadership with clarity. Madam President, I would like It is good that we can now finally get this legislation in place. But the fight against the oppression of honour will require more than just laws. Researchers say that about a quarter of a million young people in Sweden are growing up with the limitations of honorary oppression, and the number of darkness is large. I already saw it among my classmates in Västerås when I learned Swedish in the mid-1990s. I saw how Swedish society looked away. In the 21st century, when I was working against honorary oppression as a social worker in Botkyrka, I met resistance from both politicians and officials when I raised these issues. I have been publicly humiliated by the leadership of a parliamentary party for pursuing this struggle and these issues. But I have also seen how more people have become aware of the problems and make fantastic contributions to their everyday lives. I hope that the new legislation will be a clear signal. All girls and women in Sweden must feel that Swedish gender equality also covers them. The whole of society must show that they are on the girls' side, and everyone who works in school and social services should know that they have a mandate to act against honour repression.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-183	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaverh talks about the Left Party's reservation and about the Left Party standing on the side of the oppressing men. It is true that the Left Party has reserved itself in committee and that we raised a motion because we wanted the travel ban law to be better and more legally secure. But in this House we have chosen not to lift that reservation, because we do not want to delay the legislation, just as Amineh Kakabaveh talked about. I hope the honourable Member heard me say this in my speech. We will not lift the reservation, but we still choose to talk about it. I think it is important that we talk in this House about the decisions we are going to take tomorrow, the decisions contained in the bill, not about what has been said in other contexts. I want to make it clear that we will not lift the reservation and that the Left Party is always on the side of the vulnerable. Patriarchal violence must be stopped.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-186	Madam President, I would like I know, Ilona, that your fight is genuine. I know that there are many left-wingers out in the country who are struggling really hard – I myself was of course one of them. But you actually have a reservation without telling me what you want to do that the government hasn't done. What do you want in the legal text that the investigator has not corrected? But the fact that you've changed things since the pressure and the writings are great. There is always hope that the whole society will change. We have to do that eventually, because everyone is actually losing out on this. Society loses out because we have a quarter of a million children and young people who are vulnerable – most of them girls and women. Anti-racism and feminism should apply to them as well. It is neither one thing nor the other if you let other children and young people and women be vulnerable. So this is great. This reservation should not even exist from the beginning. It is a fact that the reservation exists, but you do not lift it because you have changed your mind. That's great. I think it is positive. That is a positive direction.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-189	Madam President, I would like I think it is good that we in this House state that we agree on this proposal, but I would also like to make it very clear that the Left Party believes that the part concerning travel bans can be better and more legally secure. There are also very many of the consultative bodies who have views and who do not think it is good enough. Some of the comments have been taken into account by the government, but not all of them are included in the bill. I therefore believe that there is much to be done, and that is the case with many of the points. We can say: we are not doing enough. We need to do more. To interpret our reservation as wanting to do less is completely wrong. Our reservation is that we want to do more. We want to go further, because, as I said, the Left Party is always on the side of the vulnerable.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-191	Madam President, I would like But if you want to improve something, you should of course come up with concrete proposals. As I understood, this was about tangible risk or risk alone. Following the observations made by the Bar Association on the subject of the investigation, there has been a change in risk. It's just like in social services, where I know you take care of children when there's a real risk. This already exists. If the V widow had had other suggestions, it would have been great to present them, for example. It would be more clear, I think, if alternative proposals had been made. It's good, Ilona, that you are active on these issues. I know that. You've done this, so there's no doubt about it. Unfortunately, however, this still exists. In the motion you write that this can be perceived as discriminatory. Many children have been taken out of the country. They should actually feel discriminated against by every single one of us who doesn't act. Discrimination is when you do not act against those who are most vulnerable and those who are removed from the country. It is not discriminatory against the loud patriarchal men, who have repeatedly reported Sweden's work at the UN and called the minister n and many others racists and Islamophobes. It's racist not to act. That all children and girls and women have the same rights is what is important.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-194	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking you for a very good debate. Engaged, initiated and knowledgeable posts bode well for the future. For this, as someone said, is a work that has not really even begun. We have a long way to go. We need to take the debate within the parties, between the parties and within the committees – all committees. This, as has been said here, is not an issue that concerns us just here and now, but is an issue that spans the entire Parliament's sphere of decision-making. In the best of worlds, each committee would have a debate on honor-related violence and oppression. I would just like to take this opportunity to highlight a few points of view which may not have been mentioned in the report and which may belong in other committees, in other areas of activity. The Center Party proposed a law against controlling behaviour a few years ago. It has also been raised in some reservations. In the UK, a law against controlling behaviour was introduced in 2015, which only led to some 9,000 prosecutions for a few years. Violence in close relationships or honour-related violence and oppression does not start from one day to another. It starts with someone checking your phone calls, someone checking what you're doing on social media, or someone going shopping with you or to medical care. If you can criminalise such behaviour, I think it is a good addition to a forthcoming law on honour crimes, just as the law on human exploitation is a good addition to the law against human trafficking. I leave it unsaid if all schools have an action plan for how to work preventive, detection and supportive when suspected of honour-related violence and repression, but that is where we want to go. How else should you do good work when it comes to prevention, detection and reporting? And who knows how to protect the preschool staff who actually dare to take the step to report? There must be a plan for this. Madam President, I would like We also know that tax funds today go to organisations and religious communities that actually undermine our democratic principles in Sweden – gender equality and human rights. We must also deal with this. I look forward to this work continuing and that together we lie on, put the government before us and come up with constructive and good proposals. I look forward to a flow of exercise this autumn, when together we can take many steps forward. Thank you for a good debate! I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-202	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 by the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Center Party. A large part of the crimes committed in Sweden are committed by foreign citizens who in many cases are also not resident in the country. Around 1,400 people, or 30% of those admitted to Swedish institutions, are foreign citizens, a large proportion of whom are nationals of other EU countries. Madam President, I would like The starting point for the Moderates is that people who are not resident in Sweden should serve their sentences in their home countries, which is currently too little. The Government proposes in the bill that an urgency requirement be included in the law on the recognition and enforcement of custodial sentences within the European Union. The urgent procedure is a step in the right direction, although it should be self-evident in Swedish state administration. However, the urgency requirement is not sufficient. Why, then, is it important to bring about a change in the way that more people are punished in their own countries? For example, the foreign theft leagues that have ravaged Sweden in recent years. Thefts are often based in other EU countries such as Romania, Bulgaria, Poland and Lithuania. Police reports tell us that, despite its enormous impact on society, the Corona crisis seems to have stopped the gangs only very temporarily. Foreign theft leagues are estimated to be responsible for more than half of all residential burglaries in Sweden. They also account for up to 90 percent of gross thefts of car parts, boat engines and agricultural machinery. Large profits, low detection risk and low penalties are contributing reasons why theft leagues are ravaging Sweden. Thefts are an illustration of how organized crime has become increasingly international over the years. Ligor commits crimes in one country, transports the stolen goods to another country, and then disposes of them in a third country. Moreover, crime takes place in both directions. At the same time as stolen goods are taken out of Sweden, drugs and weapons are brought into the country. The internationalisation of crime leads to more foreign citizens being convicted of crime in Sweden and thus also serving their sentences in Swedish prisons. Madam President, I would like More needs to be done to ensure more transfers of impunity to other EU countries as well as third countries. This is necessary, among other things, in order to relieve the prison system of capacity and cost, but also because other countries' criminals should not be Sweden's responsibility. Prison services should therefore be given the task of significantly increasing the number of transfers of prisoners with foreign citizenship in Swedish prisons to their respective home countries. In accordance with previous announcements, prison services in this context should deepen cooperation with the prison services in those countries whose citizens are over-represented in Swedish institutions. It is totally unacceptable that transfers of criminal liability cannot be carried out to certain other EU countries because the conditions in their institutions are too bad. However, this issue cannot be seen in isolation. A prerequisite for persons residing in Sweden to be forced to serve the sentence in their home country is many times that the person is sentenced to expulsion. Another report deals with the question of the expulsion of a criminal offence, but since this issue is closely linked to the transfer of criminal justice, it is also relevant here. Today's conditions for deportation due to crime have essentially been the same since 1994. We Moderates want these conditions to be extended. If you come from another country to stay or live in Sweden, you must also comply with the legislation that we have here in the country. Offences with a penalty value of six to twelve months in prison should be able to lead to expulsion even when there is no recurrence risk. That is not the case today. Such a change would mean, among other things, that crimes with hate or honour motives, which were discussed in a previous case, could lead to expulsion in more cases than today. We also want less consideration to be given to the sentenced person's connection to Sweden when examining the issue of expulsion. In practice, many foreign citizens who are convicted of, for example, sexual offences and serious violent crimes do not have to be deported because of their connection to Swedish society. For example, only 20 per cent of those convicted of rape with foreign citizenship who are registered in Sweden are expelled. For aggravated assault, the corresponding proportion is 3 per cent. As far as EU citizens are concerned, we Moderates want to see a review of whether the conditions for deportation due to crime can be extended. Madam President, I would like Finally, the purpose of free movement is not to make it easier for foreign citizens to commit crimes in Sweden. EU citizens who habitually commit crimes in countries other than their own should be expelled and banned from returning to the country where the crime has been committed to a far greater extent than is possible today. It follows that more people should also be able to serve prison sentences in their home country instead of in Sweden.
i-DfWdCFK4MSyzwmU5uZeSYr	Madam President, I would like We are debating today the Government's proposal for a more effective handling of criminal enforcement cases. It concerns amendments concerning the recognition and enforcement of custodial sentences within the European Union. In practice, the proposed changes only imply changes in requirements for Swedish authorities regarding urgent processing. Of course, the fact that public authorities use the possibility that is currently available more effectively is important, but we otherwise lack the framework for the increased transfer of criminal enforcement of persons who are not Swedish citizens. A country's citizen is the duty of the state to both protect and take responsibility for. When a country's nationals commit crimes in another country, it follows from the principle of territoriality that that country has the right to exercise its jurisdiction over the offender. However, it does not follow from this that the country in question is necessarily obliged to carry out the enforcement of the sentence. At a time when cross-border migration is becoming increasingly easier and increasingly irregular, the citizens of different countries are more often present in countries other than their own. Sweden in particular has problems with foreign citizens who commit crimes to a greater extent than Swedish citizens. This, together with under-funded and under-sized penitentiary services, brings efforts both to the authorities concerned and to public finances. These efforts result in additional costs as well as measures where detained or sentenced persons are not taken care of to the extent that they should, thereby jeopardising the duty of the State to ensure the security of its citizens. Many different measures are needed both in the areas of criminal policy and migration policy in order to regain control of law and order in Sweden. Madam President, I would like In the context of this case, only the transfer of enforcement within the European Union is dealt with, but, of course, solutions for criminals with a home country outside the EU are not dealt with in the relevant report. In this case, the Swedish Democrats point to two measures that should be implemented in order for more penalties to be carried out in the offender's home country. First of all, the general rule for criminal enforcement in the European Union should be that enforcement takes place in the home country. The requirements of the current regulation are too restrictive when the enforcement of judgments can be transmitted. However, the investigation that forms the basis of this matter does not allow such changes to be made by the Riksdag; why the Riksdag should announce to the Government that such a basis should be prepared by means of a new investigation. Secondly, the requirement for the consent of the sentenced person should be removed. It was judged that Swedish prisons are more comfortable than prisons in their home country should not be given any significant value. The main rule, as I said earlier in my speech, is that sentences should be served in the home country. Therefore, in the course of the investigation carried out on this very subject, the removal of the requirement for the consent of the sentenced person should also be investigated. The problems caused by free movement within the EU are often conditioned by a polarised discussion. We must be aware of both the disadvantages and the advantages of the decisions taken and the framework to which we relate. The fact that Swedish prisons have such a large proportion of foreign criminals is a significant problem, and we must ensure that both Swedish society and the Prison Service have the opportunity to maintain security and security – free movement in spite of it. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-225	Madam President, I would like Foreigners who commit crimes in Sweden will serve their prison sentences in their home country. That is the main principle, and that should also be the general rule. More needs to be done in this respect. And the product that is on Parliament's table that the government has produced and that we are going to make decisions about in Parliament is based on making it more effective to get enforcement in the home country for those who have committed crimes here, i.e. streamline and make handling faster and smoother. That is a good thing, and we support the proposal. Indeed, we voted for the proposal because it is based on an announcement by the House. It is positive that the government is now delivering, but much more is needed. We have also heard arguments for this in the debate. We have a reservation in the report, reservation 2, which I support. It states that Sweden should give priority to signing agreements with other countries. It is necessary to relieve the burden of the prison service. In addition to the principle that you should serve your sentence in your home country if you have committed a crime in Sweden and been sentenced to prison, the prison service has already been tough. It is crowded in many parts of the country. It is also important for the penal services to succeed from a capacity and cost perspective. Correctional services should be given the task of significantly increasing the number of transfers of prisoners with foreign citizenship in Swedish prisons to their respective home countries. In this context, in accordance with the Swedish Parliament's earlier announcement to the Government, the Prison Service should deepen cooperation with the Prison Service in those countries whose citizens are over-represented in the Swedish institutions in order for the transfer to take place in more cases. The reservation has been rejected by a majority in the Committee on Justice. Reference is made to the Government's letter 2019 20:75, which shows that the notice has not been finalised. The report highlights, from letter 75, the product that is decided and is on the table today, namely to achieve a more effective handling of cases. This is a positive first step, but it cannot be said that we should not do more because there is a case that is not ready. We in the opposition in the Riksdag, we from the Christian Democrats, will not refrain from putting forward the proposal to do more just because the government does not think it has finished working on already decided announcements from the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like I therefore request the approval of Amendment No 2.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-231	Madam President, I would like The transition of healthcare during the pandemic is fantastic. In a short period of time, intensive care places have more than doubled, and the care that cannot be taken over has been handled. Procedures have been rapidly changed so that operations can be managed more effectively when faced with a pandemic. Digital solutions that have been sluggish in the past have now been introduced because they facilitate work – and not least because they reduce the risk of infection. Some of what happens during the pandemic need to be taken care of and kept forward. Other things, such as the health debt, we have to deal with. It was big before the pandemic with long queues, and now it has been filled up. Then to ask each region to take care of its part we do not think is working. We Christian Democrats believe that we need to jointly take responsibility for all patients in the country and deal with the health debt together. Madam President, I would like Today's chamber debate will be about the organisation of health care. Healthcare should be organised with people's needs in focus. Health care on equal terms and as needed is the basis for the entire health care system, and it is solid. But patients' needs are different. Some people need a certain function. They are looking for a more specific condition or a more specific problem, and they are asking for a function that meets their needs at the time. Others' needs are more about a relationship. Their need for healthcare means that a relationship over time is necessary – perhaps because they live with a chronic disease or are multi-sick, i.e. have several diseases at once. Or perhaps they have just begun a treatment that will last for a long time. It can be a treatment that requires many different interventions and that should be coordinated between health services. Function and relationship – I think we need an organization that can handle both. It should be a health care that is basically based on a relationship, because the most needing care needs to be repeated over time. Then a firm medical contact and a good continuity are necessary. However, an effective and efficient health care organisation must also be able to meet the needs of patients who seek only one function on the occasion. It is in this perspective that I see new solutions that have emerged in recent years. It's the good close care, and it's digital solutions. It's collaboration for real around severely ill people. Let that development continue with vigour. Madam President, I would like We also need to explain better what care as needed means. Need-driven care does not mean that I should receive the care I think I need. No, it must be medically trained personnel who assess the needs. 1177 The online care guide has good functions for me as a care seeker and guides me to the right level of care. 1177 is also available as a telephone contact where I get to talk to an experienced nurse who helps me find the right level of care and evaluates the right level of care so that I seek care in the right place and, for example, do not sit in the emergency room for hours for something that can be handled at the health centre. That as a health seeker I first encounter some kind of assessment before I get to see the nurse or doctor is usually called a gatekeeper. This means that as a health seeker I do not have direct access to any care. A system based on care as needed on equal terms and to the whole population requires the existence of an appropriate gatekeeper system. It may be via a digital form on the web, or it may be a conversation with the nurse in 1177 or in some other way, d els because there is no unlimited money, partly because needs management requires some kind of gatekeeper. Madam President, I would like In order for me as a patient to understand which level of care is best for me, more time is needed when the patient and healthcare professional can talk to each other about the patient's needs. Too tight an appointment can cause misunderstandings, and there is a risk that I, as a patient, will search again shortly. If health care is to be effective, there must be time to ask: Is there anything else you want to talk about? And the doctor or occupational therapist must have time to wait for the patient's response. We Christian Democrats have been advocating the abolition of county councils for years. We are convinced that national governance is crucial for everyone to have access to the best care – no matter where they live in the country. But we also need to look at the organisation from a number of angles. Care based on both function and relationship also requires interrelated compensation systems, systems that support needs-driven care and are based on some kind of gatekeeper system. Now we're in the middle of a pandemic. While dealing with the acute crisis, we need to prepare for the aftertime. Let us take advantage of the experiences that covid-19 has brought. It is now time to discuss the organisation so that when the pandemic starts to subside, we do not just return to old routines. It is clear that we need a better organisation if we are to manage the health debt and then keep the care queues short. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats support all of our proposals in the report, but I only support reservation 3 on national governance of health care.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-245	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that we, too, support all our reservations – there are quite a few – but for time winning, I only ask for reservation 1. Madam President, I would like We have never discussed healthcare in so many respects in such a current situation. I think that we will probably have a debate as early as next year, hopefully marked by the end of the crisis and that we have a much brighter situation than we have had in recent weeks, but also by a high degree of evaluation, reflection, lessons learned and experience with this crisis. If there is something that will be the focus of the discussion, it is probably boundaries between different levels, management responsibilities and much more. I look forward to that discussion; it will be necessary to take. At the same time, we have seen a fantastic change and a fantastic change in a very short time. The number of intensive care places has doubled in an incredibly short time. Field hospitals have been built up. Different parts of the care have been linked together in a way that has impressed and really demonstrated the capacity of our amazing health care provider. This healthcare provider has quickly adapted to an extremely tough and in many cases new situation. The transition, the flexibility and the innovative capacity that have characterised much of the care is fantastic. The staff deserve a great deal of thanks, and they have borne this crisis in a way for which we will be eternally grateful. I therefore hope that next year's debate will very much focus on health workers. As one colleague pointed out, we will discuss it in more debates this spring. Health care employees are something that we need to highlight in many different ways. Kollegan Acko Ankarberg Johansson highlighted the health debt. This is something that we Moderates have talked about in every debate, I think – the queues that have characterized and become ever longer over the last five six years. The health debt will again be in focus, given that we are currently postponing a lot of health care interventions. It concerns me, what emerges in the media, among other things, that cancer treatments and other things are allowed to stand up and what will result from this. This means that we need to start preparing ourselves now to deal with the health debt that we are going to pay off in the months that follow when we have ridden out the pandemic. One of our proposals has a mission. We suggest from a moderate point of view that care should be investigated in order to develop a new model for Swedish healthcare. The mandate shall cover the quality of care, freedom of choice, equality, continuity, productivity and efficiency. What has happened during the pandemic is that it has managed to get rid of a lot of administration to be able to focus on taking care of the emergency situation. Today, there is no focus on administration. If it is temporary or if we can make it more permanent, the future will deport. I hope that all the innovation and creativity that the pandemic has given birth, the positive thing in all this sad, is something that we can take advantage of once this time is over. I hope that we can keep the staff at the forefront and take responsibility and lead the way that has been done in recent months. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to highlight what I think is a strength of the Social Committee, which has worked very well together in recent months. We have discussed the digitisation of healthcare on several occasions, and I am very pleased that a united committee supports the Moderates' proposals on a number of issues relating to digitalisation. These include changing the current requirement for active consent so that the patient can be adopted, and agreeing that caregivers are allowed to access patient information until the patient or family member says that the care provider is not allowed to do so. It may seem a small thing, but we who are working on these issues know how big and crucial it is to be able to reverse consent. That way we will get to many of the issues that we often discuss as major problems. There are a number of additional elements in the announcement on digitalisation that do not stand for themselves, but that we should have increased patient safety, increased quality and increased focus on the right things. Thank you very much to the committee for finding agreement here too.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-256	Madam President, I would like The work of the Swedish Democrats in Coronatids means that we have permanent staff so that our members do not have to travel to and from Stockholm. This means that Mr Per Ramhorn, who would actually have participated in this debate, cannot do so – which he is of course disappointed about – and that I will present the position of the Swedish Democrats on these issues even though it is not my responsibility. In order not to miss it, I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 12, but we naturally support all of our own reservations. Madam President, I would like Patients should receive the right care at the right time in the right place and according to their special needs; we all agree on that. But tax-funded healthcare only has legitimacy if it is able to live up to the ambitions of the Health Act. Good accessibility is a matter of patient safety, which is now threatened by long waiting times. So far, 44 000 operations have been cancelled in Sweden because of the coronapandemine. It applies to everything from heart failure and broken hip joints to groin hernia. This means that more than 150 000 people are now in surgery, and there are thousands more every week. During the week of 19, surgery in Swedish hospitals decreased by 62 per cent, and in some regions the decrease is even greater. In Region Sörmland and Norrbotten, about 80 percent of all operations were cancelled. The new care queues mean significantly more sick leave, and for individuals this means increased suffering. In addition, for all people who suffer from a cancelled operation, the risk of complications and mental illness increases. In fact, there is research showing that people who are affected by a cancelled operation are feeling worse mentally. The frequency of heart attacks increases, sickness rates increase and rehabilitation time increases. Even before the coronapendemia, there was an operation queue of 113 000 people. Over the past ten years, the gender has grown; in 2011 the gender was 91,000 people. Now the gender is 157 000 people, while thousands more people are added every new week. We Swedish democrats want world-class care. To achieve this goal, accessibility needs to be ensured throughout the country and throughout the entire business. A wide variety of accessibility, both between regions and between different areas of care, creates injustice and a lack of trust. Short waiting periods, on the other hand, contribute to a strong confidence in healthcare and increase the overall legitimacy of healthcare in the population. People have the right to set high standards regarding the right to care. We believe that the patient has the right to freely choose healthcare providers within both open and closed care and is entitled to be examined within the period of the guarantee. If the home region fails to do this, alternatives should be arranged. We propose that cooperation agreements be established between different healthcare providers – public and private, Swedish and foreign. The home region shall be responsible for contacts with the health care provider referred to, as well as for records, transport, subsistence and any interpretation assistance. Of course, healthcare abroad should only be used in exceptional cases. Our goal is a monthly care guarantee where maximum waiting time for specialist care should be 30 days. In the case of particularly serious diseases, such as cardiovascular diseases and cancer, as well as in the case of mental illness in children and adolescents, the maximum waiting time shall be 14 days. We can't look into the future – what the gender will land on before the pandemic blows off, no one can answer. But as things stand, the care queues will reach such a size that even when we reach full capacity, we are actually just keeping up with everything new that comes in. Madam President, I would like It is important to make the work attractive to health professionals, who are one of the most important occupational groups in welfare. Good skills provision is just as much about attracting new people to training as about the choice of existing staff to stay and about encouraging people who have left their profession to return. Today, a lack of specialist skills creates bottlenecks and contributes to long waiting times. A clear example is how the number of specialist nurses has long decreased while the need for care has increased. Despite the fact that several regions have offered wages during full-time studies, the wage level has not been high enough to induce sufficient numbers to accept the offer. We have long advocated a state-funded competence boost with a full salary for nurses who want to further educate themselves. The Swedish Democrats believe that all professions from assistant nurse to specialist physician should follow a national education plan whose degree gives professional ID. This helps to give each profession a high status, thereby reducing staff turnover while improving patient safety and quality of care. For the individual employee, the licence also means a stronger negotiating position vis-à-vis the employer. It is extremely important to invest in health professionals' working conditions, training and career opportunities, but also to clarify requirements for qualifications and behaviour. All healthcare professionals must be able to express themselves in clear Swedish, which is important not least in meeting those patients who themselves have a weak knowledge of Swedish. Another important part is knowledge of infectious disease and hygiene, which should be obvious to all health care personnel. Healthcare professionals are often exposed to a pressured work situation – not least we can see this during the days of the Corona crisis. Therefore, it is of the utmost importance that nurses and nurses do not have to spend time on tasks that other staff with shorter training could do. Special care staff should relieve nurses, who in turn relieve nurses who then relieve doctors. This frees up time for patient work. Administrative work is extensive and has also increased in the longer term. By allowing medical administrators to handle medical records and other administrative work, doctors and nurses can have more time for patients and a better working environment. One thing that the Swedish Democrats have been pushing for a long time is that healthcare professionals should not be covered by the Karen Day in case of illness in order to prevent the spread of infection. It is important that those who are sick can afford to stay at home. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say that we Swedish democrats are protecting the people of Sweden and want to do everything in our power to ensure, during this crisis, security for those who are particularly vulnerable and to save as many lives as possible. Crisises must not affect how we take care of the groups in society that are most vulnerable and in greatest need of help. We need to get to grips with the care queues, because they are growing out of control. The longer we wait with measures, the more difficult it will be and the longer it will take to overcome them. In the meantime, people are going to be very bad and even die. Take care of yourselves!
i-aa05c2b124b18986-276	Madam President, I would like So it was time for us to debate the area of health care organisation. It's a huge amount of exercise time that the Social Affairs Committee has been dealing with. The fact that there is such a great interest in healthcare has its explanation: Swedish health care is fantastic, but we have a number of major challenges in this area. In primary care and psychiatry in particular, during the last parliamentary term, we were able to monitor how the queues grew and how the care became less accessible every month. We saw the need for reforms, but they never came. In the run-up to this parliamentary term, when the government chose to cooperate with the Center Party and the Liberals, we focused on the reform work in Swedish health care. Among other things, we have introduced a performance-based queue billion, which later became 3 billion, to shorten queues. We have also made major financial efforts to shorten the queues in psychiatry, specifically aimed at shortening the queues in BUP. These are efforts that are incredibly important to strengthen accessibility by shortening the queues, something that several Members have previously mentioned in their speeches. One area in which the Center Party has long seen major shortcomings is primary care. We see how accessibility has become worse, how the shortage of doctors has increased and how people, instead of going to their health centre, have turned to emergency hospitals or inpatient care for help – a way that is both inefficient and expensive. The Center Party has been pushing for a long time to keep the care close. It's supposed to be all over the country, and it's supposed to be there when you need it. It is primary care that should be the hub, and patients should be guaranteed constant medical contact. The Center Party has therefore pushed for a primary care reform that will enable safe and accessible care throughout the country. This was also something that we brought with us the Liberals and the Government in the framework of the January agreement. Shortly after Easter this year, we took the first step in such a reform, which will clarify the mission of primary care and make it more attractive to work in primary care. One of the most important steps to get there is that you and I get a firm medical contact that we know by name and that knows us and knows what needs we have or what we needed help with before. To get there, the National Board of Health and Welfare is now tasked with developing guidelines and advice on a recommended number of patients listed per fixed doctor. The guidelines will strengthen the ability of doctors to have a safe and sustainable working situation and make it more attractive to work in primary care. This is something that the Medical Association often lifts up, and it is something that we have listened to. We need to make the work situation and workplaces more attractive in primary care in order for more people to want to take the step of actually working close to patients. In order to bring care closer to all people, it must also be easier to carry out care in rural and sparsely populated areas. We cannot accept the lack of care in certain parts of the country. It must therefore be possible for smaller care units, such as a nurse and a doctor, to offer primary care through flexible solutions and digital tools. Therefore, the National Board of Health and Welfare is also tasked with simplifying legislation and making it easier for smaller providers to carry out care in rural and sparsely populated areas. Madam President, I would like Together with even better opportunities to compare the availability and quality of healthcare in different places in the country, this is an important step forward for closer, safer and more accessible care. This is, as I said, the first step in the primary accident reform to be decided in full in all its parts during the term of office. But more needs to be done to continue developing healthcare throughout the country: moving it closer, increasing choice and strengthening patient power. It's not just primary care. The Coronapandemia, which we are currently in, poses great challenges and pressures to all health care. But in the midst of the crisis, we have seen how digitalisation has taken off and created new smart solutions that increase accessibility. It is a fantastic development to follow and something that I and the Center Party would like to see more of in the future. It is a gratifying development that modern technology has finally begun to be used in the form of digitalisation in health care. Given the speed of the last two months, we can only imagine where we are in two to four years' time, i.e. if we provide the right tools and conditions for these smart solutions and systems to continue to develop. The list can be done in areas where we see that digitalisation can complement and develop, but then we must, as I said, create the right conditions. The problem we have today is that legislation often stops. We have legislation that is out of step with time. However, it is gratifying to note that we in the Committee on Social Affairs are clear that there is a need for change. We must quickly revise the current legislation, produce templates and clear guidelines. And we need to look at how the patient can give a silent consent to read the journal and whether legislative changes need to be made in order to create good opportunities for coherent record keeping and information sharing. These are important elements in the development of digital healthcare. If this is the case, the Committee on Social Affairs agrees, and it is very pleased. The last part that I would like to highlight in my speech on how we want to continue to develop healthcare is about research and innovation. We are many politicians who rightly emphasise that we have world-class healthcare. But if we are to continue to say those words in the future, we must invest more in research. Sweden has long been prominent in research and clinical studies. However, statistics show that Sweden is clearly lagging behind in clinical research, which means that patients' opportunities to access new treatments before they are introduced into the regular healthcare system are decreasing and that healthcare professionals do not keep up to date with the latest findings. I think we as a country are facing a choice. We can choose the path with the high level of ambition, where we really invest and introduce competitive conditions for life science companies that make Swedish companies grow and attract more and heavier international investments. Alternatively, we can choose the right path, where we settle for symbolic efforts, is equal to that Sweden is slipping behind other countries within life science and thinks that Swedish patients have to settle for a decent medical treatment. I know which way we in the Center Party want to go. We want to choose it with a high level of ambition. That is why I support Amendment No 33, which deals with clinical studies and life science.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-294	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking all of you in health care – you who save lives, comfort and stand tall under an unreasonable workload right now. You can always applaud from the balconies. But the obvious thanks are good pay, good working hours, good work environment, a well-being for everyone, and then we need to invest in welfare, in health care. The Left has tried to push for more money for welfare in order to make staff investments, Madam President, throughout the country. Therefore, perhaps some consideration should be given to tax cuts in the future. We don't have a health crisis. We have a human resources crisis all over the country. I don't think it's queue billions that will reduce queues and open up care places, but that's exactly what I said earlier, namely higher wages, reduced working hours and better working environment for the health workers – it's also the demands of the profession – so that we can train and hire more people. I think that's priority one. The healthcare staff, Madam President, are currently working intensively against covid-19 in our hospitals in a crisis where we see how important it is to have a well-functioning healthcare system. Health care needs more resources to cope with daily work but also, as it is now, in a major crisis. This is where we practice. Throughout the pandemic, it is one thing that has been crystal clear, and that is that it is public health that saves lives, not the market. It is, for example, the staff at the Stockholm Emergency Hospital, where more than 1 000 people were given notice last year. They're the ones who work the 12-hour shifts now. Thank you! Sjukast first, it says in the portal clause for health care. Madam President, we do not think that this is really in line with certain developments regarding private health insurance and the increased privatisations, with which the current government does not seem to have a huge problem in the perhaps overplayed January agreement, or the continuing arm hook of the former Alliance with the business community. The law of freedom of choice is very cherished by the bourgeois parties. But we'd rather talk about patients' choice and opportunity. We want to emphasise that. Of course, they should not only have one actor to choose. It is not the case that we are going back to the Eastern states, so you do not need to think about that, but rather to think a little about the possibilities for healthcare companies to kick up care a little anywhere. And it's kind of not anywhere you do it when you start your company, Madam President. We believe that care must be guided by needs and on the basis of equality, equal care. You have to think so when you see that health inequalities are so great. But in the middle of the Corona epidemic, specifically here in Stockholm, which has been very affected, the online doctor Kry was granted permission to open a health centre at Östermalm in Stockholm, where they live with good health and also a good economy. One can consider whether it was the needs that governed or whether it was the availability that went first there. Madam President, I would like I'm going to talk a little bit more about digitization, which is amazing. However, consideration can be given to the considerable increase in costs borne by online medical companies to the regions. Last year, net doctors throughout the country cost $523 million. After all, the market for net doctors is completely unregulated, and it becomes expensive for the regions – some regions have talked about it. Only in March, when it was of course a very heavy burden on net doctors, the online private care cost taxpayers 96 million SEK, which is then taken from the regions. Cutting gold in an unregulated market is not sustainable, and that is perhaps what we should talk about after covid-19, Madam President. We want public health services to take on the digital opportunities. Responsibility should be taken to ensure that there is also digitally based healthcare at health centres throughout the country. We want the regions to be responsible for the development of the infrastructure for digital healthcare contacts in the regions. They must speed up, and this must be connected nationally. Primary care must be able to offer digital visits, not least in order to increase accessibility also in sparsely populated areas, where it can be far to the nearest health centre. During covid-19, several health centres have also opened up for this possibility, and that is a good thing, we think. But you can't just have a net doctor, but it must be in combination with access to physical reception that patients can be referred to for personal consultation. It has been voluntary for the regions to offer, for example, the possibility of making an appointment via web pages, which should be a matter of course. We mean it should be mandatory. We are pleased that the regions have switched up when it comes to digitalisation. That's good-- they have to keep doing that-- but more has to happen. It is good to see the initiatives we have taken in committee, Madam President. The statistics show that the remaining life expectancy at the age of both 30 and 65 increases most for those with tertiary education and least for those with primary education. A group with reduced life expectancy are women with only primary school. It is women from the working class, such as women who are currently working in the care of the elderly, that we will talk about on Friday. They lose lives like that. That is why we want to offer regular health surveys to those in socio-economically vulnerable areas who do not go to the doctor themselves. After the first visit, you can imagine that they may see a doctor or have a psychological contact, nursing counseling, and so on. We also want to invest more money in rural areas. There must be better conditions for those living in the country, far away from urban areas, to have good health care. There digital healthcare can mean a lot. Madam President, I would like Then there is the invisible group, which falls between the chairs. The Left wants all citizens of the Union in Sweden, during the first three months and beyond and regardless of whether they have the European Health Insurance Card, to be entitled to subsidised health care, at least as undocumented. This has been important during covid-19. I have received many reports of large bills, and now they are collecting money for these people to be able to pay them. In most regions, an interpretation is made which strikes hard and in which EU citizens without a European health insurance card are expected to pay the full cost of healthcare. There are ambiguities about the concept of care that cannot be retained and about who should be covered by the law and which care it gives the right to. This creates uncertainty, especially for individuals, but also for health professionals. This has also been noted by the SKR, and they are talking about precisely the ambiguities of the legislation and how we are going to move forward. Madam President, I would like I'm highlighting reservation 24.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-312	Madam President, I would like I want to talk about security, participation, knowledge and freedom. First, on this subject, I would like to thank Johan Hultberg, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall and my other colleagues in the Committee on Social Affairs for the fact that smart digitalisation will soon provide more secure care. Most of us probably believe that the doctor at the health centre or nurse in home care can already see in our journal everything we have experienced, what has happened to us and what care we have received. Nope! When I was one of those responsible for healthcare in Uppsala County, we wanted patients to be able to choose to let a relative see parts of the journal or help them with medical periods. Nope! We got barked because that would have been breaking the law. But soon what should have been possible all along will finally be possible. It is of course my care and my medical history, but the information in the journal must therefore be able to help me as well as possible and as well as I allow. We take good steps along the way, but we Liberals want more. We want advanced healthcare for rare conditions to be concentrated in European specialist centres. We want to give freedom of choice also to people with addiction diseases, in addiction care throughout the country, wherever you live. We support the Center Party's proposal for a national organization for ambulance helicopters. We want to reduce the administration and the double command, which comes with the infinitely over-bureaucratic system we have at the moment and which we ourselves have built, with targeted state subsidies. Instead, we want to strengthen knowledge management and gender equality in healthcare. I am pleased that the January agreement clearly states that we must focus on the working environment, on the patient and on strengthening care in rural and sparsely populated areas. This, together with our other proposals, takes us along the road to ensuring that good health care does not depend on the disease, gender or postal code you have. This is very important. Speaking of knowledge management, you can ask yourself who is driving. The state thinks that the state is driving, the regions want to drive themselves but we liberals want it to be the facts, the employees and the patients themselves who are to govern, to a much greater extent than today. I would particularly like to highlight our reservation 14. Our demand there is that healthcare should be much more developed where care is provided than at present. The pandemic has shown the enormous power to release employees, short decision-making paths, to strengthen mandates and to reduce the level of detail from people like myself, for example. How, then, can this be done? Well, what we're talking about in our reservation 14, which I really hope we can get through next year, if not now, is that just like the research is entirely based on researchers reviewing and giving advice to other researchers– peer review – we want healthcare to also be able to strengthen both employees and patients by making it absolutely obvious that you can regularly ask knowledgeable medical experts for advice. It is people from the same occupational group but from the place in the world where the care in question is the very best. What do world experts in different professions say about how we provide care? How do you do it where the treatment methods or work environment is at its best? Where do we break? How can we develop? We believe that we would get a very good answer by allowing those who can talk to others who can also and increase the power where care is actually carried out – simply let the employees ask those who know. Finally, I think that health care needs a visionary, a total change of perspective, when it comes to what we should really focus on. We are extremely pleased to see in the January agreement that the house doctor's reform that we have been fighting for since the 70s will finally be carried out. We managed to implement a house doctor's team in the '90s. It took a year, and then it was gone, but now it's gonna come true. We believe that a permanent family doctor, with a ceiling for how many patients it is reasonable to have for the patients' sake and for the working environment, is the right way to go. We want to complement this, Madam President, with a health portal clause that clearly shows why we have this care and why we have built this community, namely that anyone who needs care should have the right to receive that care, not just from a population perspective but as an individual, and the right to choose where and what healthcare provider: m in body, my health, my life. Politics for us is to repeatedly choose which society we want, in this case what health care we want to build up. We Liberals choose the health care of knowledge, freedom and the future.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-325	Madam President, I would like Today we have a debate and debate on the organisation of health care. I must admit that I share Camilla Waltersson Grönvall's point of view. It is not the health care organisation that I mainly go around and think about these days, but I think about the pandemic and the very big and difficult challenge that Sweden has to face. Then we should discuss health care and how it is organised and works in our society and in our country. I'll give it a try. I often start by saying that I am very proud of Swedish healthcare, and I have become even more proud of it in recent weeks. I think it is a remarkable achievement that Swedish health care has accomplished in recent months. The staff, the hospital management and the regional executives – regardless of which political party they come from – have managed to find an enormous number of more intensive care places. The number of intensive care places in Sweden has doubled, and they have quadrupled here in Stockholm. It is a remarkable achievement that shows that Swedish healthcare is flexible when it really comes to it. I think that everyone who works in health care at all levels should have great recognition for that. It's amazing. I've had conversations with people who work at the New Karolinska Hospital. They also tell us that it has suddenly become possible for them to work more flexibly. State authorities and the State control apparatus have been kept away. The control systems that the hospital management has introduced to the hospital staff have been set aside. Instead, it has concentrated on solving the task of ensuring that Sweden has enough intensive care places. And you've succeeded. I think it's amazing. I have mentioned earlier in this speaker's chair the pride that I feel about the international comparisons that have been made where Swedish health care has been looked at. Swedish healthcare is ranked at the top. The medical journal The Lancet ranks Swedish healthcare as No. 4 in the world when it comes to efficiency, quality and health outcomes. When you think about changing Swedish healthcare – that needs to be done – I think you should still do it with the realization that everything is not bad in our system. It is important that when we change that we do so in such a way that it does not harm the amazing health outcomes that we still have in our country. When considering Swedish healthcare, it is also very interesting to see that we have become better and better. Madam President, I would like If you were diagnosed with prostate cancer or breast cancer in the 1990s, it was often the same as getting a death sentence. These are still terrible diseases, but the vast majority survive these diseases today. This shows that healthcare has been better able to develop its work. Madam President, I would like There are things that we should get better at, things that are not good enough. Karin Rågsjö mentioned one of the things that I myself may think is the most important, and it is about inequality – the unequal public health. According to Statistics Sweden's data, we now have for the first time in decades a decline in the average life expectancy of low-skilled women. It is not just health care that has to deal with this, but it is a societal challenge. But we can see how the class gaps in public health in our country are growing. I think that this is the biggest challenge that we must try to tackle in our society. Lars-Erik-Erik Holm was Director General of the National Board of Health and Welfare before Olivia Wigzell. He produced figures about the excess mortality due to problems in health care. On the one hand, he looked at whether we could offer equally good hospitals throughout Sweden to everyone. On the other hand, he looked at whether we should have as good medical outcomes for everyone in our country as for the group with the highest level of education. Because it is those who have the best health and usually get the best health care results. Then he compared them to each other. Then he could say that if we were to eliminate regional inequalities – the differences between hospitals – we could save 800 people from dying of cancer every year. If we got rid of the class gaps in cancer care, we could save 2,000 people a year. When it comes to cardiovascular diseases, it can be said that we could eliminate 2 000 deaths if we got rid of the differences between hospitals. But if we got rid of the class gaps in cardiovascular disease, we'd save 6,000 people a year. Madam President, I would like These are the things that make me think that equality is actually the most important challenge for health care, more important than regional differences. Regional disparities are important, but their removal is not the hardest and most difficult task. Several speakers have previously mentioned the concerns and challenges that healthcare has with accessibility. I would like to add to your response. We are not good enough on these points. We are not the worst in Europe, but we are not good enough. There are things to do when it comes to queue billions. I think the new queue billion is far wiser than the old one. Now you measure each region against yourself. You get to compete against your previous results. Rural regions are not placed against the Greater Stockholm region. This makes the competition to improve accessibility more reasonable for the regions to manage. We have challenges that are about the increasing need for care. The proportion of the population over the age of 80 is increasing sharply in the coming decades. This means that healthcare will need substantial additional resources in the future. We need more people who want to work in healthcare, and we need to expand care. I think that calls for further tax reductions in a relief. This should be borne in mind. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, however, I would like to come into an area that does not fully fall within the remit of regionally organised health care, but it is still health care. It's about municipal health care. When we get past the pandemic, when we get past covid-19, we need to talk about care for the elderly and municipal health care. While I'm proud of how flexible regional healthcare has been to deal with the need for intensive care places – I'm still proud of everyone who works in healthcare, whether they work in municipal health care or in regional healthcare – I can say that in some parts of Sweden, especially in the Stockholm region, it has failed to protect our elderly from falling ill in covid-19. I'm just gonna throw out a little hook and a little puzzle. Nevertheless, it can be observed that 40% of those working in municipal health care in Stockholm work as hourly employees. The national figure is 10%. I believe that part of the concern lies in the fact that we have not been prepared to ensure that the staff in municipal home care have reasonable working conditions. You get what you pay for, Madam President.
i-aa05c2b124b18986-340	Madam President, I would like At 2 p.m. every weekday, as many as 1.5 million viewers in Sweden beat the TV. It has become our focal point in the last three months – our new campfire. At today's campfire, we learned that 96 new deaths have occurred. 4,125 people have died in this terrible new disease in the last three months. Each of these 4,125 people, Madam President, is someone's close, someone's family, someone's friend. My thoughts go to all those who have been affected. My gratitude goes to all of you who work in health care, who go to work every day and wear long shifts to save lives, sometimes actually at the risk of your own lives. You're doing a remarkable job. In fact, we were not fully prepared for this crisis when it came. No one in the world was prepared for a pandemic like this, nor were we in Sweden. Thus, despite the fact that we have world-class care, which will be even better through all the decisions we will take in the future, the preparedness was not entirely there when the pandemic struck. Today we will focus on changes and structures in health care. I have a short speaking time, only four minutes, but I can say that we will soon be presenting a primary care bill. It is a reform that we have been working on for a long time and which is green. It will be closer to the human being and focus on a broader health – not only physical but also mental. It will see more of man from a public health perspective. We Greens also want to work a lot with medical research and life science, and there too decisions will be taken. We will also work wisely and smartly with digitalisation in healthcare. At the moment, however, Madam President, we must focus on maintaining care, which is so strained. This also applies when the sun shines on us, as today – I walked along Götgatan to get here to Parliament today, and it actually looked like any other day, without a pandemic. We must not relax now just because the sun comes out and because we have reached a plateau, but we must hold on and hold on. Otherwise, care will not pass this test, and then more people will have to put their lives where they don't have to. We need to focus on testing; we need to get a large-scale testing that is smart and strategic. It's got to get started now. We must also focus on what comes next, that is, rehabilitation. We have also seen that Corona hits the body very hard in different ways, not only against the lungs but also against the nervous system and so on. We also need to look at all those who get stuck in some kind of illness that is going on for months, and we need to plan for the postponed care not to be too postponed and for us to cope with it in a good way. In the future, we will learn many lessons from this, both in terms of preparedness and in terms of how we can streamline care in a normal state.
