i-126f33879d4ae16f-4	Madam President, I would like A majority in the committee proposes to the Riksdag that the Government initiate an investigation that has a state-wide responsibility for personal assistance as an objective. The law will enter into force already during this term of office. Basically, we agree that shared heads of personal assistance within LSS is a problem. The government appointed the LSS investigation several years ago, whose report is the Review of LSS and assist ans remuneration. There you draw the same conclusion and propose a headship. SKR, Sweden's municipalities and Regions, also have the same opinion. Despite the fact that we have a rather broad consensus on the substance of the matter, we Social Democrats are opting for a reservation on the proposal. Madam President, I would like If we now have such a broad consensus between the parties in question, why do we Social Democrats choose to say no? The main reason is that the investigation of the headship is part of the agreement between the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals in the so-called January Agreement. A directive for the investigation is currently being prepared within the Government Office and will be finalised as soon as possible, as the parties behind the committee initiative should also be aware. Madam President, I would like Another reason to say no to the proposal is that it should enter into force already during this term of office. When it comes to such a large and extensive change in personal assistance, the time frame is far too short, and there is a risk that several persons eligible for assistance will be unaided. This can create legal uncertainty for those who currently have decisions in force, and at worst they can be unsupported. At least I do not want to contribute to this. We are not alone in this concern; the Social Insurance Agency also makes the same assessment. The Authority has warned that if the state becomes the principal, enormous administrative problems are expected, which could lead, in the worst case, to aid beneficiaries being unsupported if the process goes too fast. Today, more than 5 000 people have personal assistance through municipal decisions. It goes without saying that individuals who are entitled to support should receive it, and people with disabilities should be given the opportunity to live a life like everyone else. This is the basic requirement of the LSS legislation and the assistance allowance. However, several parts of LSS are problematic. We can see today that many are denied by decisions applying case law. Changing the principal does not think we are changing the law in terms of how needs assessments are made. Therefore, a change in personal assistance heads must be seen as part of a whole in order to increase continuity, predictability, legal certainty and security for the individual and for society and also contribute to improved quality. Madam President, I would like The government has done a lot during its term of office with regard to the LSS. Yesterday, the Riksdag decided on, among other things, a substantial increase in the standard for assistance compensation. We have the change in basic needs such as breathing and probe feeding. We have an investigation that will be completed by spring when it comes to narrower parental responsibility and self-care efforts more clearly. These are the elements of the LSS legislation that we need to address. This was also the purpose of the LSS investigation, which is currently being prepared. Although several proposals in it are controversial and will never become reality, it was precisely the knowledge the government had that we had to change the legal text itself. Just changing the head doesn't solve the worries, as I said, but we have to look at the whole thing. Finally, Sweden and large parts of the world are in an extremely difficult situation. Covid-19 puts us all to the test, and especially vulnerable are people in difficulty. I would like to remind the Riksdag that the Government Office is working hard to combat the pandemic and mitigate its effects. It is clear that in such an extraordinary situation it takes a little longer than usual when it comes to different proposals, but there are natural explanations. Hold on, hold on and remember that the tunnel will eventually get brighter! Finally, I would like to say that the Social Democrats are calling for the committee initiative to be rejected and for the reservation to be approved.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-16	Madam President, I would like Today's debate is about the heads of personal assistance. But the debate is not really about the issue itself, because for some time now there has been a majority in favour of the head of state. No, the debate is more about who wants to make the change of law about the headship the fastest. On Friday, November 20, I participated in the annual panel discussion organised by the Interest Group on Aided Persons, Ifa. The first question was about the headship. What I can say from outside last Friday is that we want something like the same but we have a little different ways of looking at how quickly we can get to the final goal and what it takes to get to the finish in a good way. All parties want to see a collective headship for assistance, and all parties except the Social Democrats have put their foot down when it comes to the headship being government. From the Center Party we have long expressed our view that it is unreasonable that the headship is divided into two, i.e. between the state and the municipality. Municipalities' finances should not be a determining factor in what your assistance should look like. That is why we are in favour of the state taking over responsibility for creating more equal assistance throughout the country. We, together with the Liberals, also pushed through a point in the January agreement which states that the head office should be investigated. This investigation will start at the beginning of next year and later form the basis for a new legislation during the next term of office, which will focus precisely on creating a principal for assistance. The Center Party wants to go back to what is the original idea of LSS: to give people with disabilities the right to live like everyone else. LSS is a law of rights and a reform of freedom. No one should have to worry about not getting the help you need. What we need to do is create long-term conditions for establishing the right to support and providing security for those who need help. We need to modernise and perhaps create a 2.0 version of the LSS legislation. Here we see the government headship as an important key and something that would increase equivalence across the country. Madam President, I would like If we agree, then what are we going to debate today? What the debate is about, as I started with, is who wants to get to the finish most quickly. I myself am a person who wants to move forward, who wants to see results and who wants to make decisions as soon as possible. That is how I am reasoning on this issue as well. I am absolutely no supporter of pulling things out unnecessarily or having long and heavy investigations just for the sake of it. Of course, I want us to legislate on this as soon as possible, because the issue is very important for many people who are affected on a daily basis. Madam President, I would like More importantly, for all concerned, it must be right. We must lay the foundations for personal assistance with great continuity, legal certainty and predictability. What we need are legislative changes to equip and repair the LSS. A decisive factor in making things right from the start when it comes to the question of headship is time. We must allow the investigation to have the time that is actually required. We should not forget that this is the most extensive and complex change for personal assistance since it was introduced in 1994. It is not just a question of moving one bag of money from one principal to another, but it requires a proper investigation that provides concrete answers to the design, boundaries and target groups – all in order to secure assistance for those affected today and tomorrow and all in order for those who have assistance today to continue to have it when the headship has changed. My assessment is that the time frame that the committee has now put forward as a proposal is far too narrow and risks leading to the need for the necessary evidence not being sufficient to form the basis for a secure continuation. That is why, Madam President, I support this reservation.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-27	Madam President, I would like Initially, the Liberals are in favour of the reservation. Madam President, I would like This is a very important debate. At the same time, I think it is quite incomprehensible to people outside this House. I have been asked a lot of questions lately about the meaning: What are you doing? I can see why you're asking that question. In substance, as the previous speaker also said, we are very much in agreement. We agree across virtually all party boundaries. Personal assistance needs a principal, and most of us are stuck because it is the state. What we definitely disagree about is how this is to be done, and really even more about the pace at which it can happen. The timetable of a total of 19 months set out in this committee initiative, we Liberals believe, is unserious. It must also be understood by those who are behind the initiative. Madam President, I would like It is good that the parties behind the proposal have understood that nationalisation is needed. We Liberals have fought for this for 23 years – usually alone. It is good that more parties are joining our policy that we pushed through in the January agreement, that we should investigate the head office of personal assistance. It has already been decided, and the unity of this House today shows quite precisely the way for where it will eventually land. That's good, and the work is already started. But, Madam President, we must also be honest and serious. Nationalisation does not in itself make it easier for someone to get assistance. For this to be possible, a number of laws and regulations must also be amended, including how needs assessments are carried out. Words such as integrity-related needs and qualified help needs must be permanently deleted. Those who receive assistance from their municipality today are hardly given a more generous assessment by Försäkringskassan simply by changing the head office. We do not really need to discuss the harsh assessments of the Social Insurance Agency right now. But it is a threatening reality with which all persons entitled to assistance live every day. I believe that today's strange debate shifts the focus from real restoration of LSS rights to winning the political game at the expense of assistance users. I find that very boring. Madam President, I would like Changing the head office, as the previous speaker said, is the biggest change in personal assistance since it was introduced in 1994. It is not possible to pull it together during a few months of investigation and a few weeks of consultation, which is what is required if you are to comply with the government form and the budget law and still implement this already 2022. The timetable proposed is simply unserious. That is why we will be voting against this proposal, which is so clearly in danger of depriving citizens of the assistance they have today. We in the Liberals will never accept a policy that risks losing some 5 000 people with municipal assistance decisions their assistance, their freedom and their dignity. We continue, within the framework of the January Agreement, to work tirelessly to restore LSS and personal assistance. It is a challenge in itself, it should be said in all honesty. It's a fight every day. In the further work, we will drive hard the need for a thorough review of the needs tests with the obvious goal of getting away from re-evaluations and minute counting and instead see the whole of the need. It is a laborious work in which the Liberals step by step move forward the positions. Then, in parallel with this, we will carefully investigate, describe and implement a nationalisation of personal assistance. Last time we pushed through the annual increase in flat-rate compensation of 31⁄2%. We are pursuing a policy of real improvement and not just search for impact. That is why, Madam President, I support this reservation.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-37	Madam President, I would like The Green Party and the Social Democrats, together with the Liberals and the Centre Party, have agreed on a number of issues in what we call the January Agreement. An important point is number 64 on personal assistance. What we agree on is that we should investigate the head of personal assistance. After the investigation, if we agree, we will propose to the Riksdag to decide on a new government head office for assistance. Our agreement is, of course, nothing that the opposition has any responsibility whatsoever to honour. However, as a Member of Parliament, I believe that it has a responsibility to make sound proposals. I do not see this responsibility being taken by everyone on this issue. Now we have a quick proposal on the table on how to do this. It is an issue that requires the greatest possible responsibility to investigate. The January parties will do exactly what we have promised each other and our voters. We will carefully investigate a government headship, and we will do so in a way that is legally secure and secure for those who have personal assistance today. Sometimes, as some have said before, it is difficult to understand why government parties reserve themselves against what they say they want to do. It is about the government having the responsibility to investigate and prepare all the documents for proposals that are submitted to the Riksdag. That is why we in the Green Party are calling for the initiative to be rejected and for our reservation to be approved. For me, this is about respect for everyone who has assistance. I don't want them to have to put up with grunted investigations that don't do the job that needs to be done. Now we will take responsibility for taking advantage of everything that has already been done and complement the investigation that is needed for us to be able to make a decision on good grounds. We take responsibility for a high quality of the documentation and a timetable that is feasible for real.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-43	Madam President, I would like Today, a majority in the Swedish Parliament says that it is going too slow and that it is not enough. The work of the Government and its partner parties The Liberals and the Center Party with LSS and personal assistance is not sufficiently prioritised, and is progressing too slowly. The debate we have here today concerns the head of personal assistance. Today, the head of personal assistance is divided between the state and the municipality, which means that the assessments can differ between different municipalities. It may also differ between the state and the municipality. This is a system which has given birth to anxiety and insecurity and which is fundamentally legal insecure. It has also led to people being placed under municipal arrest when one municipality's assessment may differ from another's. We Moderates believe that people who need the support of society in order to have meaningful employment and a functioning life should not risk being used as municipal budget regulators when the municipal economy is weak. That is why, Madam President, we Moderates, together with the Left Party and the Christian Democrats, have launched a committee initiative in the Social Committee to send a strong signal that this work must be given priority. Despite different political approaches on many issues, and so on this issue too, we have thus found a consensus on a matter of substance in which we want to push the government – a government that has not prioritised issues relating to people who need the support of society. Another tragic example of this is that during the year of the pandemic we have seen a delay and delay in financial compensation for risk groups. The image of the Social Democrats is really cracking. Our committee initiative has now won the majority in the Social Affairs Committee, and the government must listen. However, in recent weeks, Madam President, a number of questions have arisen. Last Saturday we could hear an interview in Ekot where the Social Democrats were represented by Mikael Dahlqvist, who claimed that the Social Democrats have not yet decided whether it is a government or municipal principal that the Social Democrats want to see. Shared heads are not wanted, but whether it should be a state or a municipality is still up for discussion. We have also heard the Center Party's Sofia Nilsson say that the Social Democrats have not yet made up their minds. Against this background, it is easier to understand why there is not much going on. The parties in the January Agreement do not seem to agree, and then little happens. It would therefore be a good thing for all of us if the Social Democrats could make it clear today whether what is in the reservation is valid, whether it is the interview from Saturday or whether it is the information from the other comrades in the January agreement that applies. Madam President, I would like The next question is how the Liberals can accept that no more is happening. Why has an agreement been signed that does not give a clearer priority to this issue, which is said to be so much protected? Why did the Liberals not choose to join us Moderates, Left Partyists and Christian Democrats when the proposal for state aid came up? The words that you were the first in Sweden to push the demand for state assistance go empty when you do not take the chance to enforce it. In addition, Madam President, I would like to point out that the representatives of the Liberals on these issues have tried to discredit this proposal. It has been argued that people should now be concerned about losing their municipal assistance. It is fundamentally dishonest and of course not true. In addition, there is the interview to which I referred earlier, where Mikael Dahlqvist said that the Social Democrats have not yet made up their minds. There the same Liberal representative, Bengt Eliasson, said that he sees a possible implementation only in 2025. That, my friends, is a betrayal of all the people who need a decision and a message on this matter. Madam President, I would like Several representatives have spoken about time here in the speaker's chair. Yes, how can you not see time as important? Two years have already passed in this parliamentary term, and the work that the parties in the January Agreement are talking about has not yet begun. Of course, time is extremely important. I also heard the representatives of the Green Party say a lot if we agree. It sends out even more worrying signals and is, of course, making the initiative which today has won the majority in the Committee on Social Affairs even more important. It is even more important that Parliament sends this signal to the government. There are investigations, but further work needs to be done. I note that the opinion of the reserved parties as to whether complex legislation can be dealt with quickly differs according to the legislation we are talking about. We have begun to prepare a committee initiative from the Center Party, which believes that the legislative process around pandemic laws must take place much faster than the government is planning. I share that view; I would like to emphasise that very much. But when it comes to the most vulnerable people in Sweden, it can go year after year. No, dear January parties, this is not good enough! We must ensure that something happens significantly faster for these people. I have one final question for the January parties. In the budget that was discussed here yesterday, and which we are discussing in all the committees, there are in Table 7.11 Volumes in various transfer systems – I say this so that you can all check that I really read from the government's own papers – a column that lists the number of persons with assistance compensation and how the government sees this going forward in the coming years. My question to the January parties is: how can it be that the outcome in 2019 was 14,295 people and that the January parties and the government expect this to decrease to 12,921 to 2023? It would be very interesting to have an answer. I think that the question deserves an answer in this House today, when we are going to take a decision on personal assistance. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-53	Madam President, I would like Camilla Waltersson begins by talking about equivalence across the country. That is good, because what we are seeing is very big differences. We fully agree with each other that 290 different decision-making systems are devastating for this type of legislation and decision-making. We fully agree with the proposal for greater equivalence by means of a nationalisation, and we fully agree on this need for a nationalisation. But the differences between different municipalities are, as I said, huge. The risk is obvious that there is an equivalence that is equally bad for everyone – that equivalence means that everyone ends up at the worse level. It'll be equal in itself, but it won't save anyone. I am serious that there are very great risks associated with the timetable in the proposal that is now on the table and that we are debating. I would like to ask a question about this and give Camilla Waltersson Grönvall the opportunity to explain. What risks do you see? Or do you not see any risks at all with the proposal that is on the table today?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-56	Madam President, I would like I think it is possible to agree that the absolute greatest risk we can see is that people continue to fall between the chairs. With the situation we now have, people actually live under municipal arrest because an assessment received in one municipality does not need to apply in any other municipality. Madam President, I would like I can assure you that the proposal that is on the table today is about ensuring that everyone is able to get a legal and good assessment. That is precisely why this must be done more urgently. I can understand, Madam President, that the person appointed to investigate this issue may not feel completely satisfied when this does not go any faster. But I would like to ask, as the first question to Bengt Eliasson, what is it that makes us have to delay until 2025? Does Bengt Eliasson not see this as a huge betrayal of the people he has promised to push for the LSS and assistance compensation? Can we be told what is causing us to have to wait five years? Madam President, I would like I think Bengt Eliasson owes us – his colleagues – and above all all all the people who I know listen to this debate to explain why the Liberals have not supported being able to push this through more forcefully.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-60	Madam President, I would like To describe the municipal risks is quite correct. But we come back to the question of today's system, without first looking at needs assessments, without first tackling the devastating judgments in connection with which the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has also chosen to stand on the very edge and without first having a consensus in the Swedish parliament that we should push forward changes that mean that more people are receiving assistance than today. This applies, among other things, to the 2 000 – 2 500 people who have lost their personal assistance since 2015. What is the Moderates' target? How many people do you see in need of personal assistance? How much of restoration do you see compared to today? What's the target? Now that you cannot describe the risks of carrying out a gigantic reform in 19 months, what is the target picture? Is the goal that people should actually be restored and come back to a life of dignity and freedom with their personal assistance? After all, the time aspect of the investigation is fundamental in order to make these vital and vital changes first. We consider rushing into a rapid change to be headless. We regard it as devastating and a real betrayal of the people we are discussing in this.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-63	Madam President, I would like I do not think it is possible to refer to 19 months and say that you are rushing into something. It sounds to the Liberals Bengt Eliasson that there has not even been an investigation on this issue, but all of us here know that this is not true. Madam President, I would like It is about the level of ambition of these people. There are many other issues where you obviously have a completely different level of ambition, for there are 19 months very long. No, Madam President, this is not rushing into. It would have been beneficial for this issue of Bengt Eliasson as investigators had at least rushed a little more than is the case right now. Bengt Eliasson refers to judgments and influences that have made the situation for many people in need of assistance very difficult in recent years. These are judgments that have been handed down for some time with a government that Bengt Eliasson's party has chosen to coordinate with and cooperate with. It has chosen to implement a number of points that do not even start this reform during the current term of office. When we are told by party after party that there is no agreement in the view of the question, I would like to say that Bengt Eliasson and the Liberals have great concerns. The Social Democrats have still not really put their foot down. I assure you, for the Moderates, this is about a restoration. It is about us being able to ensure that the reform of freedom that we Moderates are very proud that a bourgeois government with a moderate Prime Minister introduced is again worthy of the name.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-68	Madam President, I would like Camilla Grönvall attacked many points in her speech. It's hard to go into polemics and bone out all the claims she made, but I'll try to answer honestly to some of the most important points. It is true that the Social Democrats have not set their foot on the main issue. We are convinced that there is a need for a principal, but we are a serious party and therefore think that it takes a serious investigation to find out the pros and cons. It's like this, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall : You don't solve this problem just by adding a principal; you know that very well. We can, for example, look at what happened when parts of the health care system were nationalised in Norway, Madam President. It wasn't that simple. That is exactly the initial value we have on this issue. We understand the problem of shared headship. One might consider why the former bourgeois government introduced an LSS law with two principals, but that is another discussion. Together with the January parties, we want to look at this issue in peace – seriously – and see what is plus for the state and what is plus for the municipalities. The foundation is, as Bengt Eliasson said, the legislation in detail. The legislation is, of course, very much about how we view fundamental needs. In addition, Madam President, the Social Insurance Agency, which is the authority responsible for this matter, has warned that too rapid implementation will give legal uncertainty and could lead to people being excluded. That is why I would like to ask Camilla Waltersson Grönvall if she is prepared to carry out such a rapid investigation that there is a risk that people will be left unaided.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-75	Madam President, I would like This did not make us any wiser. On the other hand, the question we can add to all the other questions I have is whether the reservation currently contained in our documents does not apply. This is where the Social Democrats, together with the other three January parties, say that it is the government's main task to see. It is quite serious that there are acts that do not apply and that are not based on truth. The first question to bounce back to Mikael Dahlqvist is: What is the real issue? What are these negotiations? What has been said? Madam President, I would like I think Mikael Dahlqvist also heard the Green Party representative say a lot if we agree. I wrote it down. I also heard the representative of the Center Party say that S has not yet put down his foot and made up his mind. We have a great worry when you can't trust the biggest government party. I think it would be good to have a very clear answer. I would also like to raise the issue of the number of persons receiving assistance compensation, which I raised in the speaker's chair. It is a very priority when you are accused that fewer people would risk being assisted by a government that writes in its own documents that this is exactly what will happen to a continued Social Democratic Red Green Government, supported by January parties. It says, Mikael Dahlqvist, that the outcome in 2019 was 14 295. But with a continued Social Democratic government in 2023 the outcome will be 12 921. Why?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-79	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall does not answer my question as to what it means if the investigation progresses too quickly and we risk people ending up outside the system. It would be interesting if the honourable Member could answer that question instead of throwing itself full of new claims. It is also interesting that the Moderates have read our January agreement, but unfortunately not quite as well as I had hoped. It says in our agreement that we should investigate the head office of personal assistance. It doesn't say which principal. Then it may well be, Madam President, just as Camilla Waltersson Grönvall and many parties want, so that the state takes over personal assistance. It is not at all impossible, but I think it is serious to first look at the issue in peace and quiet and, as I said earlier, weigh the pros and cons. Then too, Madam President, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall knows that the budget for the LSS is based on forecasts. When the year is over, the state will pay the amount it has become. It's based on how many we expect to get the bet. If there's more, then we'll pay that amount. If there are fewer, there will be a surplus. This is based on the current legislation. The government makes a serious assessment of what the LSS legislation looks like today, what the judges look like and how they are judged. It's not about anything else. Madam President, I would like The following question remains for Camilla Waltersson Grönvall: are you therefore prepared to make this change during this parliamentary term when our largest authority warns of the consequences?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-84	Madam President, I would like My only opportunity to ask questions that I could have answered by the representative of the Social Democrats was to do so in my first reply, because on this line there is no possibility for Mikael Dahlqvist to answer. I start by noting that the outcome for 2019, how many people actually got personal assistance, was 14,295. Mikael Dahlqvist stands here and says that it is based on current legislation. He can't tell me why the number is falling, not increasing, from about 14 300 to 12 900, and I can't hear anyone explaining why. This means, therefore, that the assistance we are talking about today will certainly be reduced. It is a reduction in 2020, 2021 and 2022 for 2023 to end up on so much fewer people who will receive assistance with a Social Democratic-led government, and I do not hear any explanation. These people have very great reason to feel concerned about a continued red - green government. Madam President, I would like I can assure the Member of Parliament of the Social Democrats that this proposal is about making a legally secure assessment for everyone. But we have a higher ambition, also when it comes to governing Försäkringskassan. What I am hearing from the Social Democrats again is that it does not seem to understand that it is the government that leads the country that also controls its own authorities, that is, that the Social Insurance Fund is governed by the government. My friends! With our proposal, I can assure you that there will be a more secure and significantly faster delivery of assistance.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-88	Madam President, I would like I felt that I had a question clearly addressed to me, so I thought it best that I clarify a little what the function of a government inquiry is and how one can relate to it as a Member of Parliament even for a government party. We in our party tend to be keen to have a solid basis for our decisions, and so are we in this matter. But it is not out of the blue that we have agreed in the January agreement to investigate the conditions for the head of the assistance. When the investigation is completed, I imagine that we have a basis that clearly shows what risks there are and what benefits there are, because I think we can agree that nationalisation is never an end in itself. I think there are some people who can think about activities that have been nationalised or changed their organisational form where it has not always been successful. I am therefore keen to have a solid basis. When we have a solid basis, I am convinced that the government parties and the entire January society will find a very good and strong agreement. That's how I look at the function of investigations.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-91	Madam President, I would like It is wonderful that we have another representative here from the government base, because that means that I may be able to get answers to the questions that I carry and that Mikael Dahlqvist did not have the ability or the ability to explain. Camilla Hansén speaks of solid evidence. It's very good, and so do we. There is no other ambition with the proposal and the decision we are making today. However, a little while ago, I heard Camilla Hansén say, if we are in agreement. It worries me, and I think there are a lot of others who are worried too. What does that mean? What will happen to the investigation? Liberals' representatives have said that implementation can take place by 2025. Then my question will be to Camilla Hansén and the Green Party: do you share the view that it will take another five years before we see the implementation of a single headship, whether it should be state or municipal? But the focus on our part is that it should be state-owned, and I hope that the Green Party will also support this. Has the Green Party taken a clear stand? Is it three parties within the January agreement that are presenting a state headship, while the Social Democrats have not made up their minds? The second question concerns the basis we receive. It must be said, however, that it must be quite solidly prepared when the budget and forecasts are put on the table in the future. There is still no answer to why, from 2019, there are 14,295 people who have been granted assistance compensation, while the government, including the Green Party, claims that in 2023 it will decrease so much that it goes down to 12,921. Why? Is there an answer to that question?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-97	Madam President, I would like I will do my best and try to answer the two questions. Do you need to be concerned about what the government parties are doing? No, we will ensure that we have a solid preparation basis and will make decisions based on it. I think a lot of people would be disappointed if I said this: It doesn't matter what the investigation shows. We've made up our minds. Even if there are disadvantages, we will be nationalising assistance. That would be terrible. That's not how we work. The second question concerns the figures in the budget and the forecast. There I think Mikael Dahlqvist gave a good explanation. We still don't see the future. Forecasts are based on many different bases. It is not a question of government parties going in and governing the decisions of independent authorities or courts. That would be terrible. This is a forecast based on the evidence available today on how assistance can be developed in the future and the granting rates. I also imagine that there are new people who receive assistance and that people who have assistance disappear from the figures. I cannot explain the figures in more detail than that.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-101	Madam President, I would like One thing I can say about today's debate: I do not get much wiser, because the answers do not exactly stand as rods on the slopes. It reserves its reservations against the proposal and puts out fog curtains to the effect that everyone is in fact in agreement but that it is about time. In the case of certain investigations, 19 months is a long time. I would like to stress that this issue is not beginning to be investigated in the spring, but there are already a number of studies that can of course be used. From this point of view, my conclusion is that it tries to hide the fact that it does not agree. I can imagine that there are quite tough discussions within the January parties. Someone may shake his head, but I've been told things like that, if we're in agreement, and S hasn't put his foot down yet. Then it's pretty clear that you don't agree. Furthermore, we have been confirmed by the Member of the Social Democrats that, although the common reservation points in a certain direction, it has not been decided. So to rule the authorities. Let me refer once again to the Social Insurance Agency. The Green Party has been in the government for quite a few years now and is also responsible for what has happened in recent years. Someone referred to the judges who have been guiding, but it is still the case that regulatory letters and other things are written by the ruling government. So certainly a government has the opportunity to influence its authorities. But that has not happened. No, unfortunately I can continue to be worried about what is going to happen, but I am grateful that today there is a majority in the Swedish Parliament that is prepared to move forward.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-108	Madam President, I would like Wow, what a passion for these questions! That's good to hear. Government heads of assistance are an issue that the Swedish Democrats have been pushing for many years, and the fact is that there was already a majority in 2018 for this. But now we're here two years later, and it's finally time. I am proud that our Swedish democratic wavemasters' voices ensure that we have a government headship and that there is finally an investigation that will ensure that this is done in the best way. As many have said before, the shared headship has caused a number of problems. Persons who have been deemed to have a need of less than 20 hours a week have been referred to their municipality, and it goes without saying that such a system does not allow for equivalent assessments and decisions. So the support you receive has depended on where in the country you live. But we cannot have a system in which it is the finances of the municipalities that decide what support is to be given, but we must return to the fact that it is the needs that govern. Unfortunately, this has not been the case for a long time, and the situation has only gotten worse and worse with the government's signal policy. It has become increasingly difficult, not to say impossible, to get state assistance, and both responsibility and costs have instead been passed on to the municipalities. The government has sent clear signals that have accelerated the cuts. It is not least about the regulation letter to Försäkringskassan to break the trend in the number of assistance hours. It is also about Magdalena Andersson's clear statement about saving money to cope with the increased costs of receiving refugees by dampening the cost development of assistance compensation, for example. This statement, moreover, she denied in the Parliament's pulpit during a Question Time and said that my history was not correct and that there was no such quote because she had never said it. This, of course, is just a parenthesis to show the credibility of the government. But it also shows that there are areas where the government has a clear strategy. It is precisely this policy, together with the stricter case law of recent years, that has led to fewer people qualifying for state assistance compensation. Several have instead, as I described earlier, been referred to their municipality and the municipal assistance with legal uncertainty and different outcomes depending on the place of residence and municipal finances. It is therefore important that there should now be a head of personal assistance, and I also call for the committee initiative to be approved for an investigation to be set up to find out how best to achieve this. Madam President, I would like As is the case with personal assistance today, it is important, as many have pointed out, that other changes are also made. Of course, simply shifting responsibility for something that does not work does not solve the problems. Anyone who loses or is denied assistance today will be in exactly the same position unless we increase the possibility of assistance being granted and maintain the intentions of the reform. There have been a number of things listed in the speaker's chair that we have to deal with before we nationalise assistance. There seems to be a majority in favour of the basic needs underlying decisions having to be taken into account in their entirety, i.e. that the whole element must be taken into account. This issue has also been pursued by the Swedish Democrats since 2012. There also seems to be a majority in favour of stopping unjustified re-evaluations and offensive minute bills. There also seems to be a majority in favour of ensuring that those who have a municipal decision on personal assistance retain that right. Many of these issues are currently on the committee, and we can actually get a decision in them very soon. Given that many people here have said that they want to do so, I assume that they will stand up for it when the decisions are to be made. The investigation to be set up by the Government should therefore propose greater legal certainty and continuity with a functioning transition. It is important that those in need of support also receive it. Sweden must start taking the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities more seriously. Perhaps we should even make the Convention Swedish law in order to achieve what we are committed to doing. As many others have said, this debate is a bit strange because it sounds like we all want exactly the same thing. We may want to, but as I see it, there are some differences. The biggest difference is that the majority say that responsibility should be government and want to investigate how best to do it while the government wants to set up an investigation to review the head office, although this has already been investigated several times. It is not stated in the reservation that it should be state without being investigated. There's a big and important difference. We believe that by moving the head office from the municipality to the state, the construction of tomorrow's assistance begins. I can also assure everyone that no one here is going to pass a bill that you are not satisfied with.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-127	Madam President, I would like It is a great day for all of us, not least for us in the Left Party who have been working for this for years. I am extremely pleased that we have gathered here today to begin work on nationalising personal assistance. This demand does not come out of thin air, but it is a demand that we have highlighted because the disability movement felt that it was absolutely necessary. Since this is so important, we are entering into an unholy alliance with the Moderates and Christian Democrats to make this happen. Personal assistance is one of the biggest freedom reforms we have in this country. It is an effort based on the right of all people to live a life like others with self-power and influence in society. It is not an effort like any other, but it is a right for all of us to live our lives regardless of functionality. Today, responsibility for personal assistance is shared between the state and the municipality. People who have more than 20 hours of basic need for assistance per week receive state assistance allowance. Those who end up below the border receive their personal assistance through the municipalities. The very idea of the division between principals was originally a construction so that the beneficiary of assistance on the one hand would be close to decision-making, on the other hand would not risk being pointed out as a burden on the finances of municipalities when the needs were high. In theory, it would not matter if you had the operation via the municipality or the state. However, reality has been different. For example, in some cases the assessments have appeared to be legally insecure when the municipality and the state have made completely different assessments. In small resource-efficient municipalities, groups' needs for support and assistance have been put against each other. Municipalities make very different assessments of who is entitled to assistance. The 20-hour limit has become an incentive for an economic struggle between the municipality and the state. This isn't worthy. In this way you do not see every person's needs. But perhaps the biggest problem is that it has been shown that many people who end up with the municipality lose the right to their assistance and instead receive less extensive work via, for example, home care. It was never the idea that this reform would happen. With the committee initiative to make the state the sole principal, the conditions for equivalent assessments throughout the country will increase. The risk that individual municipalities' finances will influence the tendency to provide the input will disappear. Because one of the parties in the Riksdag does not want uncertain assessments, or that there should be a difference from which municipality you live in. For us in the Left Party, it is crucial that such an important and even life-decisive effort should be assessed equally and legally. We believe that this reform of freedom should never be a matter for municipal budget balances. It has to cover the essentials. No one should be placed under house arrest in their own municipality for fear of losing their assistance. That is precisely why the issue of shared heads of personal assistance is so important. Madam President, I would like We want the state to be the principal of all persons entitled to personal assistance under LSS, regardless of whether the person entitled to assistance currently has government or municipal support. If you are serious about claiming that you are defending the reform of freedom, it is absolutely necessary to dare to move from words to action, we in the Left Party believe. Politicians who are committed to the reform of freedom must ensure that the principals are cultivated so that the state takes full responsibility. Madam President, I would like As with all major changes, there has been some concern about our initiative. That, of course, is entirely reasonable. This is a big reform and not a small thing. The people who today need personal assistance to live a life like others have suffered a severe trauma. We've seen that on the news. People are terrified of losing their most fundamental rights. That is precisely why we have stressed in our mission to the government that absolutely no one who has assistance today, regardless of the principal, should lose it. The goal of our reform is for more people to be granted assistance, not less. Another concern highlighted is that our time frame is too tight. I believe that no one who has come into contact with the question of the LSS has been able to escape the fact that this is an area that has been investigated in length and in length, without any of the major reforms required being carried out. It has been an effective way for the government that is currently responsible for talking about the issue over and over again, but never taking responsibility for the extremely urgent issues that lie ahead. The government and the cooperation parties were about to do exactly the same with the main issue. We cannot accept putting investigations and moving forward. I think the most dangerous thing that can happen is that politics does not dare to act forcefully to secure the reforms of freedom because the situation is as it is. Governments can always postpone the most important parts and only engage in minor adjustments, that is, never fundamentally change, even though we see the systematic error and how it affects people's lives. Now we put the responsibility on the government to produce instructions for the investigation, where the function rights movement should of course be an active part. Personal assistance is the biggest freedom reform we have. We have promised the electorate that we will fight to regain effective rights legislation and do all we can to ensure that a law based on the Convention on Human Rights and giving people full power over their lives is as good as possible. To achieve this, we have had three main demands as a party. We want the law to be adjusted to all judgements and to ensure that you get a needs assessment without privacy restrictions, we want to get rid of the profit hunt on assistance and we have promised a government headship. When we promise something, we'll keep it. We are trying to find ways to push forward our political issues. Now, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, we have begun work on one of the main demands. We are very proud of that, Madam President. I support the committee's proposal.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-140	Madam President, I would like I would like some clarifications. Our two parties have quite large differences of opinion on very many issues, including fundamental political issues. But it is interesting that in the case of LSS and personal assistance, we are perhaps the parties that over the years have been closest to each other in view of what needs to be done and what the law should be for. I have to say that I appreciate that the Left, as I understand from criticism and alarm calls from the disability movement during the preparation process up to the initiative, finally added to the previous committee meeting that transitional rules and added that a little more suspenders are needed to implement this. But that's not enough. The Social Insurance Agency will assess new applications and will review each of the decisions that will be transferred from the municipalities. This is not rewritten in the committee's text. Today, 82% are refused their first application to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, all of which will be first applications. Today you get a second chance at your municipality. But this chance you want to remove, without replacing it with anything else. I have to ask the questions: what do the transitional rules really mean? What's the essence of this? You're saying no one should get rid of their assistance decision. That is what is fundamental and important – if we are in complete agreement.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-144	Madam President, I would like We have said that no person should lose their right to assistance through this. It is up to the government to do that work so that it does. The important thing here is that we want to make it clear that the main people should be nationalised because we see the problems that exist today. We want to take that step in order to ensure legally secure assessments of the assistance issue.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-146	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lorena Delgado Varas, for your answer! I have to admit, it didn't really make much sense to me. The transitional rules are handed over to the government. The following questions are: When are they to be introduced? Should they be introduced at the same time as the transfer takes place and the law is introduced? What does it look like in the meantime and above all after the transitional rules? Transitional rules run out somewhere. What happens then? There are a lot of questions raised in this process. This with transitional rules is easy to say, but what should they look like? How are we supposed to make sure that not a single person falls between the chairs? That is the big discussion we are having here today. We have heard from the speakers who have so far been in the debate that we have very different views on those processes.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-149	Madam President, I would like The issue of the time frame has been highlighted very much, that it is a forward-looking decision and so on. Nevertheless, we must be very clear about saying that such investigations have been going on for a long time. This is not a new question. Rather, consideration should be given to the time frame of the people affected by a system error that exists today. There are very big needs and very big problems with the system that exists today. I think the Liberals should be clear that this is an important step to take. It's not the only step we need to take to get a good LSS. But it is one of the most important steps.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-152	Madam President, I would like During the last term of office, the Left Party was very close to the government and had both transparency and a great opportunity for influence. During the last term of office, an investigation into LSS was also set up. It is an investigation that has received enormous criticism from many of the parties but also from the professional organisations. Part of that investigation is about us changing the headship. That very chapter has actually been sawed in many ways because it does not stand for itself. My question to the honourable Member is: why did the Left Party not push harder during the last term of office and ensure that the head office was more clearly investigated and got a bigger place in the LSS investigation so that you could have made progress at a faster pace? Then we would have been in a different position today. We might have had a better investigation to base our decisions on. How did the Left Party reason during the last parliamentary term that no more was done for the headship?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-155	Madam President, I would like We, too, have been critical of the investigation and the results that came out of it. For the state to be the principal in these matters, we have been pushing for a long time. It is not that it is a new issue for us. We will be watching the issue properly, and not only us, but also the disability movement. Of course, we did not agree on the full outcome of the previous investigation. But on the main issue, we've been on the same foot all along.
i-M4SJAzeL8r4j9MLvWkgXbJ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Lorena Delgado Varas. We now have a majority in favour of the headship becoming a state. I personally feel that is very positive. I hope we can move forward on this issue. What still worries me is just the tempo and time. What is the Left Party's position on the time aspect? What consequences does the Left Party see in that we are now going to stress out an investigation where in 19 months we are going to have a complete piece of legislation? What consequences does the Left Party see in that particular part? How do you respond to the industry organisations that see a great risk that we are now rushing forward one of the biggest changes in LSS?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-160	Madam President, I would like I would not say that it is rushing a proposal. We have now made a committee initiative. The government has to take responsibility for that. We have a large part of the disability movement behind us. Several of the parties agree that this is an important issue and that it should be pursued in this direction. I guess it's just to get started. We can't wait so many years. It has already been two years into the term of office, and the issue has not even been started. It's about people's lives and their conditions. It affects very different and very different hard in different parts of the country.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-162	Madam President, I would like For us Christian Democrats, it is obvious that a person with a disability should have the right to the assistance that the person needs to live a life like others, no matter where in the country the person lives. This is not the case today because the state and the municipality have a shared responsibility for assistance. I will develop the problem with this a little bit. The state is responsible for those people who are deemed to need assistance 20 hours or more per week of what is called basic needs. The municipality is responsible for those who are deemed to be in need for 20 hours. Unfortunately, the S-MP government's devastating directive to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency 2016 has pushed for a much stricter assessment of what is considered to be part of the basic needs. With regard to, for example, the basic need for personal hygiene, only the time used to keep the body clean of dirt and not the time it takes to use deodorant, to cut the nails, to use conditioners or to dry the hair is now counted. The stricter assessment has meant that it is extremely difficult to get across the 20-hour limit today. This applies regardless of whether it is a child born with a disability or whether it is a guy who breaks his neck in an unfortunate accident on the ski slope. In addition, thousands of people who have received assistance compensation for several years, perhaps their whole lives, have been re-assessed after 2016 and have no longer been considered to reach the limit of 20 hours. They then fall out of the state safety net, even though it is the assessment – not their real need for assistance – that has changed. The municipality will then capture and take over responsibility. But, Madam President, we see cases where the municipalities are unable to provide the necessary support in accordance with the intention of the LSS. In small municipalities, in particular, there is an imminent risk that it is the municipality's budget – not the person's need – that determines the amount of assistance. Municipal assistance also creates a lock-in effect, a municipal arrest. A person who has assistance via a municipality must have the right to assistance re-examined if he or she wishes to move. The decision of the new municipality may have a completely different scope, or may even be a complete rejection. That's a risk many people don't dare take. A young person may not be able to leave home. Another is forced to turn down work or study elsewhere. It is clear that municipal assistance limits the freedom and freedom of choice of persons with disabilities. In short, it limits life and is contrary to the intentions of the LSS. We can't have that! Madam President, I would like I am therefore very pleased that the Riksdag today has the opportunity to make a decision that, when it becomes a reality, can increase the security of people with disabilities and strengthen the right to assistance. Thanks to an initiative by us Christian Democrats together with the Moderates and the Left Party, the Riksdag can today take a first step in order for the state to become the sole principal of assistance. All of us parties who support the proposal are extremely concerned that this will make it better than it is today. The investigation that we now want the government to appoint, and which the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has also requested, should be thorough. It shall prepare and propose the necessary transitional rules and all other details on how the legislative proposals are to be designed in order to increase legal certainty and continuity for persons in need of assistance. One such change may be to remove the 20-hour limit. It is no longer needed when the division of responsibilities is not to be spread out between the municipality and the state. We also explicitly demand that those who currently have a municipal decision should retain their right to assistance when the state becomes the sole principal. They shall also be subject to the current suspension of assistance reimbursement. Madam President, I would like I and the Christian Democrats therefore wholeheartedly support the committee's proposal for a decision today. The fact that there is now a majority in the Riksdag that wants to set up an investigation with the aim that the state should be the sole principal of assistance is a new political position. Unfortunately, however, there is no agreement in Parliament on the matter. The January agreement between the government, the Center Party and the Liberals says that the question of headship should be investigated. Thus, these parties have not jointly stated whether it should be the municipality or the state that should have the overall headship. I would like to thank my colleague, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, from the Moderates, for making this clear in today's debate. The Social Democrats want to investigate who should be responsible for the assistance. At the same time, I am very confused when I read the reservation text. I would like Mikael Dahlqvist to clarify why the Social Democrats have supported this reservation text when they have obviously not made up their minds. According to the report Review of LSS operations and assistance compensation... personal assistance should be a state responsibility. It honors Mikael Dahlqvist that he stands up for the January agreement, but this makes it very confused. In fact, I was going to ask the Environment Party representative the same question, but as I look out over the Chamber, I see that she has left it. I hope she comes back. The Liberals and the Center Party state that, like us Christian Democrats, they want the state to have sole responsibility for assistance. Yet today their Members are saying that they will vote against it when there is a sharp proposal on the table. Madam President, I would like There is a split within the January parties. Once again, the January Agreement puts a stop to proposals that would be good for Sweden, this time a proposal that would strengthen the right to assistance regardless of where in the country you live. What is happening now is that, after the formal decision has been made at today's vote, the Riksdag urges the Government to urgently set up the investigation into the state being the sole principal of assistance. But then the government is in power. They can choose whether to act or refrain from setting up the investigation. If they set up an investigation, it is they who govern the directives. Madam President, I would like The Rules of Procedure for today's debate prevented me from taking a reply to the previous speaker. However, it would be important if, for example, the Liberals Bengt Eliasson took the floor again and then clarified whether his party through cooperation with the government will ensure that, unlike the January agreement, the government will set up an investigation into the fact that it is the state that should be the sole principal. That's what I think a lot of people are waiting for. People are getting hurt today. It is urgent to carry out Parliament's will. The appointment of a competent investigator must take place immediately, and the Government must ensure that the directives are really good in accordance with Parliament's requirements. The January parties now actually have an opportunity to steer up the needs assessment as well. I have repeatedly called the Minister of Social Affairs to Parliament. She says that she understands the problem – it takes a review to ensure that all the basic needs are basic – but says that the issue is too difficult and complex. That's not good enough. The process has to start, and we have to say it. The Christian Democrats made a sharp proposal on this in the Riksdag in June this year. Unfortunately, only the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats voted in favour. The Liberals, for example, voted against the fact that all basic needs would be assistance-based in their entirety. It does not make sense for their Member in this House today to say that the state should be the principal, but that we must first ensure that all the basic needs become assistance-based in their entirety. When will it happen? It is not in the January agreement. Madam President, I would like I apologise for exceeding my speaking time. The government has betrayed people with disabilities and their families for far too long. The people who suffer in today's system of shared heads can't – can't – wait much longer.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-187	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by answering one of the questions that Pia Steensland sent me from the speaker's seat about the message. I gave that statement in my speech. It was very easy just to listen there. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention in this brief change of line to the interesting aspect of the timing of the initiative. After all, the whole initiative is based on the fact that an investigation is now being set up quickly. We agree on that. It will come in January, as early as possible. I would have liked to see it before Christmas, but the department is not quite able to get the directives through until then. We get it right after New Year's, it's promised. Most people in this House know that. Furthermore, it says about the time aspect of the initiative that the investigation will be presented in January 2022 and the legislation will be in place before the end of the term of office, i.e. decisions in Parliament before the summer and entry into force sometime during the summer. That's how it has to be. You might think it can go fast, if you want. However, I have tried to recall one quick-traded decision here in Parliament that has become really good. There are too many where we have had to back up, take over and do the right thing. We really want it to be good for those who need the assistance together. I would like to ask Pia Steensland to clarify: how do you view the processing process? You have pointed to the long line of changes that need to be made in order for this to be good. Describe, please, the preparation process so that it becomes clear how it will last for these 18 - 19 months!
i-126f33879d4ae16f-192	I would just like to point out that we are speaking through the President.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-193	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member says the government's investigation will come in January. The member's January party colleague says, however, that it is an investigation that will produce a decision on whether it is the state or the municipality that should have the overall responsibility. That's the big difference here. We say, like the Liberals, that it is the state that should have that responsibility. These are the details of what we are about to investigate. I would like the honourable Member to clarify once again the answer to my question in the floor earlier: will the Liberal Member ensure that the inquiry coming from the government in January has the objective that it is precisely the State that should be solely responsible? Regarding the investigation period, the investigation should be in place in spring 2022. We are extremely anxious for this to be a good and sound investigation. Should it turn out that longer time is needed, time can be slightly extended. That's not the problem. The big problem is that the government doesn't get its butt out of the wagon and get started. The investigation must be in place now with a competent investigator to ensure that these details are good. The January parties, through their cooperation with the government, have the opportunity to steer the directives exactly where they want to go. What does the honourable Member want the directives for this investigation to look like?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-198	Madam President, I would like I apologise for failing to comply with the rules of procedure in this House. I would like to emphasise that I very much want answers to what the intended processing process should be like. It is extremely short of time, and the initiative explicitly states that there should be an investigation in place in January 2022 and that there should be legislation in place. According to my interpretation, this means rigorous legislation before the end of the term of office. We know how the Riksdag works. During an election year it closes just before midsummer, and then everyone in here goes to elections. This means that with these processes that need to be carried out according to government, budgetary rules and other things, it should be consistent within a few months. The referral time will be horribly short if this is to be completed. How are we going to cope with the biggest reform this legislation has seen since it was introduced in 1994? And how are we to ensure that it actually gets as much better as I am convinced that Mr Steensland wants as much as I want it to be? Madam President, I would like This is the vital fundamental issue in this debate. It's time now running away from us.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-203	Madam President, I would like The investigation will be in place in spring 2022. If a summer holiday is then required, if it is an election year, then we Christian Democrats are willing to enter Parliament when it comes to an issue as urgent as this one. My question to Bengt Eliasson remains. Unfortunately, you can't answer it now, so I wish we could find a forum for it. What will the directives look like? Would it be possible to actually push and make sure that a good assessment is made in this too? Should that be the case, I am convinced that the timetable also needs to be shifted, yes, but I am also convinced that it would be welcome if we actually got to that whole. The crux of the matter is, I think, why the honourable Member has not spoken to me from the Christian Democrats, to representatives of the Moderates or to the representative of the Green Party and asked about this during the investigation process in committee if it is only the timetable that concerns the honourable Member in this decision. Why has the honourable Member not picked up the phone and asked how we think and whether it is possible to find a way forward? I would have appreciated that, Madam President.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-206	Madam President, I would like Pia Steensland asked me a question about how we view the issue of state authority. I do think that I have explained quite clearly our argument for what the process should look like in the future. I believe that a serious party should have a good basis to take a position on. We agree that a principal of this reform is good for various reasons, as has been explained, but we do not agree whether the head office should be government, municipal or anything else. It does, however, tend to state leaders, I can readily admit that. But I also think we need to see the issue there. Madam President, I would like There's a bit of a glaring tone when it comes to the way the municipalities handle personal assistance, I think. They use expressions such as,,,, and, in smaller municipalities, and so on. I think it is appropriate, Madam President, to say that it is flawed even in larger municipalities. It doesn't always have to do with the size of the municipality. In fact, there is also a municipal tax equalisation system in this country where municipalities are compensated for, for example, the cost of caring. I think that we should be honest in this discussion when it comes to the fact that there are different sizes. I have met many people who are very satisfied with municipal care – municipalities see the local environment and can make wise decisions. This is exactly what this investigation is about to look at: pros and cons. I would like to ask Mr Steensland, from the Christian Democrats, the following question: the Social Insurance Agency has made it clear that too short an investigation puts people at risk of being excluded. How do you view that question?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-212	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. What the Försäkringskassan has made clear in the parts that I have read is that it is said that a thorough investigation is required. Yes, we agree with that. That's the investigation we're setting up now. All these authorities and bodies – SKR and the organisation of obstacles – agree that it is the state that should have the overall headship. I wonder, therefore, what makes the Social Democrats unable to put their foot down on this issue and say that the state is actually getting better as a principal. I know that very many municipalities are struggling hard to get as good support as these people need. But it's incredibly difficult, because there are costs associated with this. It is also very difficult in those municipalities where people are actually granted assistance on the basis of actual needs. This may lead to priorities in the municipality on other parts. You may not be able to make that football field as planned, or you may not be able to build the swimming pool and so on. That becomes stigmatising in especially small municipalities where very many often know who has devoured resources just because you need it to manage to live a life like others. That's why the state has to go in. Where in the country you live should not be able to determine how your assistance will be. The honourable Member has been clear, and I appreciate that. It honors you, Mikael Dahlqvist. But we cannot again investigate for several years whether it is the municipality or the state that should be responsible. When are you going to put your foot down?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-218	Madam President, I would like We know that the Christian Democrats love the state. You want to nationalize health care and so on. If such a solution were so simple, we would have done so a long time ago, and this is precisely the issue. Just because you change the head man, Pia Steensland, doesn't solve the problems. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the honourable Member said earlier in the debate that it is prepared to extend the period of time if necessary because there may be problems with the short investigation period. You also asked earlier why Bengt Eliasson has not been in touch. Then I must say that we Social Democrats have made contact with the Christian Democrats. And one of our questions was about the time period. We then felt that it was cut into stone. That's why I was a little surprised by how you expressed yourself in the previous line shift. One of the most important issues we are discussing here today is precisely the time period for the investigation, because it is clearly stated in your file. I still don't think I'm getting answers on how to deal with a legal process with your time period, Pia Steensland. How are we going to ensure that those who today have municipal personal assistance do not end up outside? I would like an answer to that question.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-222	I would also like to point out here that we are not duking each other but speaking through the President or using the name of the Member. It will be a little easier for us and for those who watch the debate.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-223	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech and as has been heard in the past, with the Committee's position, we have a demand in the mandate that people who today have municipal assistance should retain it when the state takes over responsibility. They shall be subject to the review ban. This is gonna get better. It won't get any worse. In our discussions with the Social Democrats, we have said that we can think about this in terms of time. I am concerned when I hear from the honourable Member and the friends of the Social Democrats in the January agreement that there is a great deal of disagreement on this issue. We must ensure that where in the country you live is not allowed to decide. There are so many lives and families that are now being torn apart. That's it! That's it! That's it! That's it! Madam President, I would like It is heartbreaking to hear parents who describe having their children in borrowed time. All they want is to live a life together, like an ordinary family. Instead, they struggle with authorities to get the support they need to cope with their daily lives. It's obscene. I wish the honourable Member now, in a first step, to ensure that the State is the one to be responsible for the assistance. I would also like the honourable Member to press more within his party to ensure that all the basic needs should be assistance-based in their entirety. There are such sharp proposals in the Committee on Social Affairs now. I wish the Social Democrats would support them.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-228	Madam President, I would like The subject to be debated is pneumococcal vaccine for certain groups. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's motion for a resolution to be rejected and for the joint reservation to be approved by us Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. The case concerns a recommendation to the regions of the country from the Authority concerning pneumococcal vaccines. Madam President, I would like As is well known, there are three regulations for vaccinations. There is a national general programme covering the whole population of defined age groups. It is binding on the regions and free of charge. There is also a national specific programme for defined risk groups which is also binding on the regions and free of charge. And there are recommendations, as is the case here. They include the entire population, but the regions have their own responsibilities and decide on the fee. Regional self-government is an important part of our social system. The region itself determines how the activity operates linked to its resources and financial framework. As long as we have regional self-government, we will experience different tax images depending on where in the country you live. This applies not only to vaccinations but also to many other health care charges. One example is my own home region, Sörmland. The other year the region charged a fee for pneumococcal vaccines. This year, decisions were made on free of charge for those over 65 and for risk groups. I understand that Örebro and Kalmar have also done so. Of 21 regions, 15 are free of charge. A contributing factor may be the large allocations, both compensation for additional costs and increased general contributions, which the regions have received in 2020 by the Social Democratic-led government. As is well known, additions have also been announced for 2021. Of the six regions that charge a fee, four are governed by the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. Then I have a quiet question: why have you not made contact with your party friends in these regions and explained how important you think it is to introduce free pneumococcal vaccinations? The four parties behind the reservation believe that the regions are capable of setting themselves the priorities needed to cope with this cost. Those in need shall have access, and the fees shall not be such as to be refused only on account of the amount of the charge. I believe that all regions will soon offer free vaccination for this. I have an example of how things can go. Following a recommendation from the Agency a few years ago that all infants should be vaccinated against hepatitis B, all regions since 2011 offer vaccination free of charge within their regional vaccination programmes. This is an example of the fact that the regions have fully taken on board the recommendation. I believe, as I said, that we will soon be there even with regard to the pneumococcal vaccine. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Swedish Public Health Agency's proposal is that vaccination against pneumococcals should be included in the special vaccination programme during preparation. That is another reason for my position. I'll finish with a thought about where we're going to draw the line. The next vaccine on the agenda is shingles. If it becomes a recommendation, one might wonder whether the state should bear that cost as well. New vaccines are constantly coming, and we have chosen a system in which the regions are responsible for health care. Maybe we should let them take their responsibility.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-239	Madam President, I would like This debate is about the committee initiative on free pneumococcal vaccines for certain groups. In Sweden there are unique health care systems in the form of, for example, child health care, school health care and occupational health care. Through our preventive work, we have among the world's lowest maternal and infant mortality rates, to name but a few. We have a robust system of good coordination in place. There is also knowledge about how good health can be promoted in older people. But it is an area where there is no national coordination, and there is no vaccination programme. The Center Party has therefore been pushing for this in recent years. We want to introduce an older health care programme that includes a national vaccination programme. The Public Health Agency has done a solid job and has concrete evidence that vaccination programs help. There is also broad scientific support that a structured vaccination programme containing vaccines against, for example, seasonal influenza and pneumococcus leads to socio-economic savings and reduced mortality among elderly and at risk groups. Madam President, I would like Instead of spending time debating whether or not we should have free pneumococcal vaccines, we should therefore debate and press for the government to put its foot down and introduce a structured national vaccination programme for all our elderly people throughout the country. If we in the Center Party now want a vaccination programme, where the Public Health Authority has indicated that, among other things, pneumococcal vaccines will be included, why are we today saying no to the proposal and the specific vaccine? My answer is that I do not believe that we should depart from the order and principles we have today on the introduction of vaccinations. The order we have put in place the Alliance Government in 2012, and it is based on their being regulated by the Disease Control Act. It is then the Government that decides which diseases are to be covered by national vaccination programmes, general and special, based on evidence from the Public Health Agency. The Swedish Public Health Authority then issues regulations on the programmes, such as to which groups of vaccines should be offered, the number of doses to be given and at which intervals. Regions and municipalities are then responsible for implementation, and they are obliged to do so free of charge if it is a national vaccination programme because the costs are borne by the state. The fact that the government decides which diseases are included in the national vaccination programme is reasonable given the high costs involved. Thus, it should be the government that makes these decisions. That is how it works today, and that is how I want it to continue to work. Otherwise, what happens if we suddenly depart from the usual order and open up for Parliament to make proposals on which diseases to vaccinate against or which vaccines to give? This road doesn't feel patient-proof or safe. What we need instead, Madam President, is a decision that leads to the rapid introduction of a special national vaccination programme for the elderly based on research and science and following developments around the world. In this way, we create an equal health for our elderly and we also solve the issue of the cost to the elderly because national vaccination programmes are always free of charge for the individual. I commend our reservation.
i-Dpo4XCktjWjmS4gXFrAQa5	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Per Bolund, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi, Minister Matilda Ernkrans and Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Per Bolund answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-250	Madam President, I would like More than 1.1 million people in Sweden are in the municipal housing queues in our four largest cities. In total, even more people are in the housing queue in Sweden. Over 80 per cent of our municipalities report a housing shortage. At this point, the government chooses to allow new arrivals to take the lead in the housing queue, that is to say, to take precedence over all the people who stand and have been in the housing queue for many, many years. We're saying it's not fair. We believe that this does not benefit integration in Sweden.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-253	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Malmqvist, for a very important question! Unfortunately, it has been underinvested in housing for a very long time, unfortunately during many governments. That is why I am pleased that we now have an investment rate that is far higher than in decades. We can also see that the government's active housing policy has had an effect. Rental apartments are being built at an extremely high level, thanks to the fact that we co-finance and make it possible to build rental apartments with a reasonable rent level that is now coming onto the market to a greater extent. At the same time, of course, we also have the responsibility to provide housing for all our citizens according to their needs. If you have an urgent housing need, there are many municipalities that also provide the opportunity for preference in the housing queue, precisely so that families with children, for example, should not be forced to live on the street or wander around between different accommodations and thus not be able to provide children with a safe living environment. Many municipalities take great responsibility for the social well-being of the municipality.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-256	Madam President, I would like For this very reason, I wonder even more why Bolund has not presented a single bill in Parliament this autumn to increase housing construction in Sweden. The Moderates want to reduce the reception of new arrivals to Sweden, and we want only those who have been granted a residence permit to be considered for housing in one municipality at all. Why does the government not think it is a good proposal?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-258	Madam President, I would like It is not true that we have not put any bill to increase housing construction. There is currently a budget bill on the Riksdag table that means increased support for building even more rental apartments with reasonable rental levels. If the Riksdag supports it, it will mean a further increase in housing construction, which is really needed. We now also see how housing construction is turning upwards in general. More housing is being built in the current period than in the same period last year. So we are moving towards a better situation.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-260	Madam President, I would like On Monday, the government decided to relax the interpretation of the temporary law, or upper secondary school amnesty, for persons without protection. I quote Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson: a fact should be made clear that these young people are deemed to lack protection, which is why they have not been given asylum. They should have been rejected already a few years ago. ..................................................... In fact, it is no longer a youth, but a full - grown man. Since 2016, it has in any case been required for foreigners to have a sustainable livelihood in order to be able to obtain a permanent residence permit. It has been interpreted in practice and according to practice as two years' permanent employment. At that time, the government wants to halve. It has been discovered that the disguised amnesty does not work effectively enough during the coronapndemine. My question to Minister Bolund is: When is the government going to admit that this is just a disguised amnesty?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-264	Madam President, I would like It is important to recall the background to the High School Act. We all know that during a period of time a lot of people came to Sweden, among them very many unaccompanied young people. We had a situation where our authorities were unable to carry out the asylum procedure during the time that we have set ourselves and that the law requires. As a result, many young people under the age of 18 during the trial had reached the age of 18 and were given a different test than they would have had if we had followed the principles that we would have worked on. Now these young people have remained in Sweden. They went to high school. They have a high level of education. They have learned Swedish and are integrated into Swedish society. We therefore think it is reasonable that Sweden should also have access to the resource that these young people represent. These are people that Sweden will benefit from in the future and who will build an even better and stronger Sweden. Of course, we also think that we need to adapt to the fact that we are in the midst of a pandemic and that this creates other conditions in the labour market, that is to say, it is more difficult to get the type of employment that we have demanded. Then it is reasonable that we should also adapt the regulatory framework.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-267	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. At least it is nice that voters are given answers to what the government's priorities in Coronatimes look like. There are more exceptions, there are more loopholes, there are more adjustments to migration legislation to relate to special interests, such as the Green Party. My supplementary question is: will the government fully implement this as an amnesty, or will it be content to step by step increase the scope for all interpretations until everyone stays anyway?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-269	Madam President, I would like No, we have made the change that we think is well-pleasing. It is also a completely incorrect description of the government's actions during the pandemic. We have carried out huge investments of hundreds of billion SEK to protect Swedish companies and jobs during the pandemic. We have devoted enormous resources to meeting healthcare needs in order to provide care to all those who have become ill during the pandemic. We have made efforts that no previous government has done in modern times, and I am extremely proud of that. Of course, we must also ensure that the regulations are adapted to the existing situation.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-272	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Financial Markets Per Bolund and is about the EU taxonomy regulation. The Commission has therefore drawn up a proposal for delegated acts which came out on Friday and is now in consultation until 18 December. The Commission shall then take a decision on 31 December. I get some alarm signals about the delegated acts, including that the biofuels sector will not be considered sustainable. Nor will the burning of residual fibre, i.e. to the municipal combined heat and power plants, be considered sustainable, and the Swedish way of managing the forest, despite double environmental certifications, is not sustainable. 75 per cent of Swedish energy production is not considered sustainable. Mines with the metals we need to convert to electrification do not count as durable either. As a result, these industries are downgraded and face difficulties in terms of innovation, investment capital and research funding. What is the analysis of the situation by the Minister for Financial Markets?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-275	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Peter Helander, for an important question! We should be pleased that there is now a green taxonomy at European level. This is a major step forward that Sweden has also worked for. Together with France, we pushed through green financial market legislation at EU level, and this allows Sweden to have access to investments for the transition that we are at the forefront of. Now this is a comprehensive proposal of 600 pages, which came to the government on Friday. We are now going through and nail danger the proposal in detail. When there are so many proposals that affect so many different areas, there is of course much that is beneficial for Sweden. There are also parts where we will have comments. There is also a broad reference group with representatives of many different parts of the business community and Swedish society that constantly gives us input and knowledge that we can then use in our work towards the Commission. Sweden has been active in the work, and we will continue to be active in order for the proposal to land as close to Swedish interests as possible.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-279	Madam President, I would like A group of countries has already reported concerns and sent letters to the Commission reviewing the situation and opportunities of different countries. Sweden has reportedly not participated due to a lack of time. Paradoxically, the proposal will make it impossible for Sweden to achieve the climate law objectives and will cost thousands of jobs in Swedish companies. Will the Swedish Government take part in the open consultation to correct the disastrous taxonomy proposal?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-281	Madam President, I would like That picture doesn't add up. On the contrary, Sweden has been very active in the work. We have included many comments, and we have also heard too many Swedish comments. For example, we have received a letter on the link between bioenergy and the Renewables Directive, which is a directive to encourage the use of renewable energy sources. But we will of course continue to work actively during the further process until 18 December, and we will be clear about Sweden's entrances to the discussion. There we have every opportunity to get on with our work.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-284	Madam President, I would like The newspaper Dagens ETC has revealed hair-traveling conditions at Apotea, Sweden's largest online pharmacy. It was a matter of late ordered overtime combined with blocked exit and locked toilets as punishment. Sydsvenskan has examined the gig company Foodora with slave-like working conditions and no job security. The train crews want to plan their working hours. The employer made an offer to go down to 80 per cent. If you turned it down, it could mean dismissal. Now 12 train drivers are being decommissioned. Madam President, I would like It is reasonable to be both surprised and upset, but that is not enough. Given all the problems we see in the labour market with precarious employment, with planing, with gig jobs, why does the Minister for Labour, a former trade union representative, want to further reduce job security when we really need to improve it?
i-XRrwgwYHEqrmztDoTnjtF7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ciczie Weidby, for the question! This is a serious misunderstanding on the part of the Left Party. What the Socialist and environmental party government wants to achieve is to ensure that we get more, better and more secure jobs in our country. You can do that in different ways. We have taken a lot of measures during the spring that create better conditions to keep jobs in Sweden. We have also strengthened unemployment insurance. We have contributed with the Elderly Care Lift, which creates more and more secure jobs in healthcare and care, among other areas. The ambition is high to ensure that we can increase security in the Swedish labour market.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-289	Madam President, I would like Why are every ten workers working every hour as needed today, and why are more than two women employed part - time? For years the power of employers has increased at the expense of the security of the people. Business and the right are working intensively to reduce job security. It is my view that it is the Socialist Government that wants to bring about the deterioration.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-291	Madam President, I would like We need to change labour law and ensure that there is no abuse of fixed-term contracts. We need to strengthen security systems. I mentioned the unemployment fund. But it is also a matter of ensuring that the social security systems that exist in general, including health insurance, are adapted to the situation on the Swedish labour market. We need to ensure that trade unions and employers together can continue to develop the collective agreement model. This is the success of Sweden.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-293	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Social Security. Today's design and assessment of the so-called normal parental responsibility means that many parents of children with disabilities do not receive the support they need to cope with everyday life. This concerns the assessment of personal assistance and other LSS interventions and forms of compensation. There is an ongoing investigation into the waning of parental responsibility, and we Christian Democrats believe that the investigation should be extended to cover all actions and forms of compensation in support of these families. I am pleased that, during a discussion in the Social Security Committee, the Government gave the message that it is willing to do so. Unfortunately, I have now received a completely different answer to the same question when I put it in writing to the Minister for Social Affairs. She's not willing to broaden the investigation. The various messages worry. What does the government want with regard to the parental responsibility of parents of children with disabilities?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-297	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Steensland, for the important issue, and thank you for your commitment to social security issues! It is gratifying that things are happening in this House in the area of social security. This creates the conditions for better cooperation. We are looking at the issue that Pia Steensland also raised in connection with my visit to the Social Security Committee. It is extremely important that we ensure that the different parts of social security systems interact with each other and that it is human needs that are the focus. Not least from the perspective of people with disabilities, general systems must be adapted to human needs. That is why we have taken with us the question raised by Pia Steensland, and we have looked at how we can work to ensure that the various parts of social security systems interact better with regard, not least, to the protection of children with disabilities.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-300	Madam President, I would like The ongoing investigation looks specifically at parental responsibility for personal assistance. We should write in the law, in the parental code, that parental responsibility should be in a way for assistance but not for the rest. That lack of clarity prevails now. The Government must give a clear statement that responsibility for all actions and forms of compensation to the parents will apply. Parental responsibility is the same.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-302	Madam President, I would like My message is that we have the same starting point. Now it is just a matter of finding an approach that will enable us to ensure that there is a coordination of the various legislations. We intend, of course, to take a closer look at this issue.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-303	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister Shekarabi. Recently, many have testified that more people are denied sickness and activity compensation by Försäkringskassan, which makes increasingly harsh assessments, although in reality no laws or rules have been changed. People with already very low incomes are hard hit. Now we have agreed on very good changes in health insurance, but this part is not covered by them. People with intellectual disabilities are undeservedly trapped in poverty traps and are unable to influence their situation as a result of the increasingly harsh decisions of the Social Insurance Agency.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-307	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for the important question! Allow me first of all to thank the parties that have worked together to solve the problems that exist with sickness benefit. The next step is to solve the problems that exist in the sickness and activity benefit. Against this background, we have set up an investigation led by the Government's Special Investigator Samuel Engblom. There is a parliamentary reference group for this investigation. Our hope is that there will be cooperation between the parliamentary parties so that we solve the problems that exist within the sick and activity compensation. Let me emphasise that we have an extremely restrictive regulatory framework. We have an extremely restrictive regulatory framework since the changes in 2008. It is time to change that regulatory framework and adapt the support of sickness and activity benefits to the needs of our citizens. It requires legislative changes. I am very pleased that an investigation is now under way which will present the proposals as early as next summer. Let's put aside prestige, ideological locks and blame games. Let us reach out one hand to each other just as we have now done with the sickness benefit and also resolve the issue of the sickness and activity benefit.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-312	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Indeed, many in this group must seek support in order to survive — or have parents paying. Those who cannot work because of disabilities are entitled to sickness benefit but are denied it today. There have even been cases where people were sent to Arbetsförmedlingen to look for jobs that do not exist. Does the government intend to include these people in the further process after the investigation?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-315	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Bengt Eliasson is highlighting this. It was not that long ago that this House repeatedly showed a majority against improvements in health insurance. I am so delighted that we are discussing the issue of sickness and activity benefits. My answer to Bengt Eliasson is yes, we intend to include that group. It is an obligation we have to our Swedish citizens that sickness and activity benefits should work for them. It does not do so today, and it is our duty to change the legislation.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-318	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister Shekarabi. Someone's mother, your partner, me – an accident or severe illness can happen to all of us. That is precisely why we Social Democrats are protecting the strong society. That is precisely why our common security systems must work. At the moment, many of us Members have their own stories and experiences with health insurance. For some it works, but for thousands it ends with an incomprehensible rejection at day 180. In the days, there have been reports of a dramatic increase in the decline at the 180-day limit. There are several parties that both see and want to do something about the to say the least canty system. On the other side we have the Moderates, who want to solve the problem of health insurance with additional days of withdrawal and savings of SEK 7 billion.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-323	Madam President, I would like There was a very important announcement this morning that sickness benefit is now being reformed. We're adjusting the rules for the trial day 180. This takes place after close cooperation between several parties in this House. The position of the Moderates will have to stand for them. It has no foundation in reality. We have a serious problem with the sickness allowance. People get rid of sickness benefit on day 180 even though they have done the right thing, even though they have made more efforts in our society than society can expect from them. Our nurses and nurses who have taken risks for us and worked out in the operations in the middle of the pandemic are being insured because of the regulations that apply today. It is very gratifying that several parties in here have reconsidered and thought correctly so that there is now a majority to change the rules in sickness benefit and for day 180. We will do so as soon as possible.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-326	Madam President, I would like As I said, this is a very good news that has been given today. You have described it as a first step. Could the Government explain what could be the next step in further reinforcement?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-327	Madam President, I would like Yes, there are several suggestions on the government table that we are working on. The next step is to solve the problems that exist in the trial day 365. There is exactly the same need to ensure that people complete their rehabilitation and care efforts so that they can return to work. We have the question of ensuring that part-time and needy workers are covered by sickness benefit, a central issue not least in the care of the elderly as a result of the pandemic. Then there is the question of normal work and the proposals relating to reforming that concept. We're working full time. We are open to putting aside the prestige to cooperate with parliamentary parties.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-333	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Bolund. Heavy industry is facing a major change to become more climate-smart. We are already well advanced. Not least, we know about Hybrid, the investment in steel without coal, which is unique in the world. Sweden can be the first in the world to produce steel without coal. Last Sunday, the next big positive news came – that LKAB now intends to invest SEK 400 billion in a process to produce completely carbon-free iron sponges. This news is very positive, but we know that the heavy industry also needs risk sharing and external funding.
i-55dwVVERF2fJGCgdeNFp26	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Lorentz, for the question. It is a huge strength for Sweden that, in the midst of a burning pandemic, we can see such huge industrial investments planned. It is because we have created a long-term and clarity on the part of the government that it is now known that sustainable investment is also profitable investment. Through, for example, the Climate Act and the climate framework that we have put in place, the entire business community knows which direction to go. This will generate large revenues for Sweden and many new jobs. However, we also need to ensure that there are funds available to implement these investments. We have made resources available through the budget – for example, in the Industrial Region, which is a co-financing scheme in which the state spends money on this type of investment. In the forthcoming budget, we also have green credit guarantees, which are a way of sharing risk with industry so that bank loans and bank financing can be made available. We also have the green bonds, where Sweden is the world leader and has recently made the largest government green bond. There are also financial opportunities.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-342	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have a supplementary question about the need for electricity for this industry. Many of the technological leaps will require more electricity. To solve this, focus can be placed on two elements: improving the efficiency of existing electricity generation or use while at the same time expanding renewable electricity.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-345	Madam President, I would like In this area too, we now see an enormous willingness to invest. It is also because we have provided long-term conditions. We have pointed out the direction towards a 100% renewable electricity generation system in Sweden. Now there are plans to double wind power only in the next three years. It's a huge supply of new renewable electricity coming. We have energy efficiency programmes where we are now going in with money to make the housing sector more efficient, which will reduce its energy use. Offshore wind will also allow a lot of new electricity to enter the system.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-349	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Minister Ernkrans. For centuries, Västmanland and Södermanland have been Sweden's industrial heart and are still so. Business in the region is a world leader in everything from high-quality steel to electrification and automation. The establishment of Northvolt's research centre for future batteries and Bombardier Transportation's establishment of a global development centre for electrification in the transport sector also strengthens Västerås as an energy capital in Sweden. Mälardalens högskola today plays an important role in providing companies with skills and conducts their research in close cooperation with companies' research and development. By allowing Mälardalen University to develop into a technical university, it would further strengthen the development of Sweden's industrial heart.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-353	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Damsgaard, for an important question. It is no secret that the party I represent, the Social Democrats, has identified that Mälardalen University can take further steps to become a university. This is precisely from the perspective mentioned by the honourable Member. This is indeed a university that could become a university that builds on the strong commitment that exists at and around the university, not least from business and local and regional life. This is an issue that we need to deal with wisely, for it is clear that if this is to be done it should be done with quality so that we can feel confident that it will be good. That is why this is an issue that we from the government will present on the day it is possible.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-356	Madam President, I would like I'm asking Ardalan Shekarabi my question. The fact that health professionals who have worked heroically in the midst of the pandemic and because of this have fallen ill in covid-19 since being secured demonstrates what a flawed system we have – a health insurance system that already before the pandemic secures many people who have been too ill for work or have not been able to undergo full rehabilitation. The fact that, after massive criticism, the government has gone into action tonight is, of course, a good thing, but something needs to be done here and now for those who fall out of the system. The Swedish Democrats have today raised in the Social Security Committee the question of a temporary regulation abolishing the 180-day rule for everyone until the government's legislative proposal is in place. My question is: how does the Government view such a solution here and now, given all those who have time to be assured before a change of law is in place?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-358	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Lindberg, for the question and commitment! I have to say that I am pleased that a party which, until a few months ago, wanted to reintroduce the lower limit of health insurance today is asking the Minister for Social Security how we can improve social security. Just welcome this. I put away all the prestige; it is good that this kind of change is happening. We are currently working to look at how we can ensure that the changes to the regulations for the trial day 180 are made as quickly as possible. We have now seen an increase in the share that gets rid of sickness benefit at day 180. We know that quite a few of the people affected by covid and now have long-term symptoms right now are at the 180-day limit. So we are looking at what we can do legally. The regulatory framework that is to be amended now, as we announced this morning, is to be changed as soon as possible so that as many people as possible are covered by better protection. It is very good that this question is raised by more parties in the Swedish Parliament.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-362	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. From different parts of the country, I get signals from worried students. Concerns are about the elements that need to be done physically, on site at the university or university. Some aspects of the students' education are practical and need to be done on site – I have a great understanding of that. For example, practical parts of nursing education are included. If the student at the moment feels the slightest symptom and follows the advice of the Swedish Public Health Agency and stays at home, this can lead to missing credits, which in turn can lead to having their CSN support withdrawn.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-364	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Nilsson, for the question! Students should be able to feel safe during their education. It is also extremely important that, during this pandemic, we can keep teaching and that it is carried out in a safe manner. This applies not least to continued education for nurses, for example. We need to be able to examine more nurses. They're needed out in the hospital. Students live, just like all of us, under the recommendations of the Public Health Agency. We will stay at home for the slightest symptoms; it also applies to students. It is very important to report this to CSN so that it can be cleared out and does not have to lead to the economic unrest that some students may experience. We obviously need to follow this issue so that students can feel safe and get through their education in the absolute best way.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-367	Madam President, I would like Last autumn, many students were admitted to our higher education institutions. It is positive that many people want to study, but the students have different conditions to pass their studies. New routines and digital teaching have not made it easier for those who, for example, come from unstudy homes or need extra support. Students need support based on their different backgrounds and prerequisites to pass higher education. The record rate of admission must not lead to record drop-outs. It is now unclear what students can expect for support, and it looks different at our higher education institutions because there are no national guidelines. I would like to ask whether Minister Matilda Ernkrans is prepared to investigate educational support measures in order to achieve greater equivalence between universities and to guarantee all students the educational support they need.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-369	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ilona Szatmari Waldau, for the question! As I said, we should take care of our students in higher education. They are making a fantastic effort, and now they are also making great sacrifices, so that we can limit the spread of the disease and get through this pandemic. The vast majority of teaching at our universities and colleges is now done at a distance. It suits some students very well, but there are also others who have a tough time with distance studies. This means that the government has strengthened the budget in order to develop and support higher education institutions in terms of how to take on distance learning and how to strengthen quality and pedagogy. Of course, it is important that we follow this issue. UKÄ also has a special mission to follow universities through the pandemic to find out what we can learn and what we need to take with us into the future. This is absolutely one thing we need to keep an eye on and develop.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-373	Madam President, I would like During the current government's six years in power, the building of small houses has shown a downward trend over four years. Compared to ten years ago, construction of blocks of flats has increased by 137 per cent, according to Statistics Sweden's statistics. The corresponding figure for house production is 2 per cent. The underproduction of villas is also evident in house prices, which are rushing, and in an increasing number of people testifying to the difficulties of getting hold of their own villa at all, or even a piece of land to build on. Seven out of ten say they want to live in villas or terraced houses. At the same time, the government's policy appears to be the reverse. All the focus from the government is on rental apartments and densification and on living high and central. I would like to ask the Minister for Housing: when is the government going to start pursuing a policy to make it easier for families to find a villa on a grassy plot?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-375	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Larry Söder, for the question! The government's policy is that there should be a wide range of homes on the market and conditions for each family and household to get a housing that suits their conditions and needs. Now we also see how housing construction turns upwards. It has been at high levels for a long time. We have decided on additional additions to housing construction, which will make it even more active. On the other hand, we do not decide which type of property will be built, but it is very up to the market and also to the planning of municipalities, where it can be planned for either multi-detached or single-detached houses, villas. I know that the municipalities are making an effort to plan for as many homes as possible at each time of the plan. This can give priority to multi-detached buildings. We should remember that we have a rather acute housing situation, where there is a great need for new housing because we have built too little for a long time. It is therefore a priority to get many new homes in a short time.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-379	Madam President, I would like It's a shame it wasn't discovered before, because I've felt bad. This is how Matilda wrote in Dagens Nyheter the other day that she only learned in grade 7 that she has both adhd and diagnosis dyslexia, reading and writing difficulties. It pains a school politician to see around the country savings and cuts in peripheral resources, differences in schooling and shortcomings in educational support and in teachers' skills. In addition to nationalising the school, it is extremely important that people from the nation, the state, go in and raise teachers' skills. My question to Minister Ernkrans is whether she is prepared to review teacher training in the area of dyslexia and reading and writing difficulties or by other measures to ensure that more students receive early and better support.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-381	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Haddad, for the question! After all, we are part of a cooperation in the middle of Swedish politics, where we – the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Liberals and the Center Party – have agreed in the form of a January agreement that we will reform teacher education. We have delivered on some of the parts. We have decided on a new degree goal for all teacher educations in terms of knowledge of NPF, i.e. neuropsychiatric diagnoses. We have also delivered a new degree goal in terms of sex and relationships. We've reinforced the training schools. We've made sure we train more teachers. Hopefully we can also continue with the reform of teacher training that we commissioned two investigators to look at. This study deals with the quality of teacher training. Together, we should be able to deal with more important issues.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-385	Madam President, I would like I would also like to ask Mr Ernkrans my question. The level of education is different in the country, and the distance between higher education institutions and universities is of paramount importance for our young people to see education as the future. If I compare the level of education in Gävleborg with our neighboring country Uppsala, the difference is clear. Jobs and equality are important for every city and for every municipality, but access to higher education differs significantly. There is plenty to develop and change here, especially now that the pandemic has taken hold of us. The research proposal is being developed, and there is a pressing need for initiatives to both secure Swedish competitiveness and improve opportunities for transition. Here, all our young people need to see the link between education and research. My question is therefore: what is the Minister doing to create world-class research and better opportunities to both grow and switch across the country?
i-E63rMT49ytAoHP6fjzSekc	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa Lindestam, for the question! As the honourable Member himself points out, we are indeed in an intensive final stage in negotiating a new research and innovation policy bill, which is also being negotiated in the middle of Swedish policy. It is extremely important that we take advantage of the fact that Sweden is actually a leading research nation, and we need to continue to be so. More knowledge is the way in which we have chosen to compete, and it has been successful, I would argue. This is based on the fact that we have higher education throughout the country and also research. If we are to continue training teachers or nurses throughout the country, we must also have a strong research connection across the country. These are important questions that we can feel that we have pushed well. There is a completely different possibility for this now than a number of years ago, but we will have to continue with the job, and I promise to come back when everything is done.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-393	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Minister Shekarabi a question. It's about health insurance. For quite some time now, we have seen the tearing up of our social security systems. People who are too sick to work do not always receive the support and compensation they need to get back to freshness, quality of life and work. New statistics show that the percentage of insured persons from day 180 is now growing at a rapid rate, but there are also completed investigations with proposals, and this morning we received news from the government that action is now being taken. These are permanent measures that apply to everyone – no cream files or such. But what does this mean? What can we and the many troubled and stressed long - term ills expect from the government now and in the future?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-397	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Berglund, for the question and commitment! The change means that those who are at risk of being insured on day 180 even though they are either waiting for treatment or rehabilitation or are in a care or rehabilitation operation but have not yet completed it may retain their sickness benefit and thus be rehabilitated and cared for and then returned to work. It is a good and necessary change. It is very strange that there has not been a majority for it before, but now it is. That's what matters. The next step is day 365. It is about those who need further rehabilitation and care and are in such a process not getting rid of sickness benefit day 365, but that we also adapt the proof requirements to the changes we announced this morning. Then we have to make sure that people don't fall between the chairs. This is what has happened. Försäkringskassan considers that they have the ability to work, but the Employment Service does not. That is where the regulatory framework needs to be changed, so that we have an interaction.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-400	Madam President, I would like I will come back to the EU proposal on taxonomy. The concept is probably quite unknown to most, but in short it means introducing an EU standard for sustainable investment in the financial market. This standard is of great importance in terms of access to risk capital, guidelines for environmental certification by companies, public procurement rules and a lot of other things. It is therefore extremely important for Swedish business and Swedish jobs that this new EU standard does not disadvantage Sweden. Unfortunately, we now see how both Swedish hydropower and Swedish biofuels in the current proposal would be severely disadvantaged. Large parts of Swedish forestry are also at risk of being considered non-sustainable, such as our nuclear power, mining, steel production and the automotive industry. The more you get involved in the matter, the more serious you realize it is. I would like to give a clear example to Minister Bolund, namely the absurd proposal that the use of natural gas should be regarded as environmentally sustainable while Swedish hydropower is considered non-sustainable. Does the Government consider this reasonable and, if not, what does it intend to do about it?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-403	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jan Ericson, for an important question! At the same time, Sweden will benefit in many ways from a clearer regulatory framework at EU level in terms of what is green investment and from encouraging the financial market to focus even more on sustainable investments. We know that Sweden is at the forefront of the transition. We heard examples from a moderate Member on Bombardier, Northvolt and many other companies now investing in the green. They will have easier access to funding with this proposal. Of course, there are parts of the proposal on which we will need to have comments. The Swedish government has been active in the work and made it better in many ways. At the same time, of course, this is a compromise, as all proposals at European level are, between the will of many countries. But we will continue to work actively to ensure that this proposal lands as close as possible to all Swedish interests. Basically, however, it is a proposal that enables large investments in new, green and sustainable industries in Sweden and in green, renewable energy production. We will continue to make sure that all the details are landed where we want them to land.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-408	Madam President, I would like The waiting times for a-cassage payments have skyrocketed during the pandemic. Some people are allowed to go unemployed for up to five months pending their payment. In September, for example, Alfaskassan had the longest waiting period, as much as 22 weeks. These effects of the pandemic on the a-cassage system were beyond any reasonable doubt expected, but despite this apparent upsurge in the number of applicants to the a-cassage, the government has not taken the necessary steps. Had they centralised and nationalised the unemployment fund, as the Swedish Democrats want, much of these consequences and problems could also be curbed. My question to Minister of Labour Eva Nordmark is: Is the government prepared to reconsider its dogmatic approach to the union's responsibility for the a-cassage to secure and secure the well-being of workers?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-410	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Dennis Dioukarev, for the question. Unemployment insurance is absolutely central to creating good adaptability and security in the Swedish labour market. There is no doubt that, in the midst of the worst crisis in the labour market in modern times, we also have very high pressure on our unemployment funds as well as on, for example, the Employment Service. What the government has done is that we have contributed SEK 100 million to ensure that unemployment funds have the opportunity to hire people to meet the great needs of so many people. What I see in front of me is the importance of pressing down throughput times. The Swedish democrats believe that it would be better by nationalising the unemployment fund. I think that is a conclusion that cannot be drawn. It is just to look at the a-cassors that have the shortest and longest processing times or, for that matter, to look at the research available on the model that we have in Sweden, which is very flexible and where various unemployment funds have tracked the industry's conditions.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-414	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Eva Nordmark, who is responsible for health and safety at work. I think more about prevention so that you don't get sick leave. Swedish Television reported the other day that 7 000 corona-related occupational injuries have been reported to Försäkringskassan so far this year. These are people who have been infected in their professional activities. Health and social care personnel account for more than 80% of the reports, and that is predominantly women, namely 83%. It is nurses and specialist nurses who make up the largest proportion of the infected in healthcare. We must now take this very seriously. We must ensure that people in these professions do not leave the labour market and do not leave their jobs and go to something else.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-418	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Pethrus, for an extremely important question! No one should be infected, sick, injured or killed in our workplaces. Everyone should be able to feel safe in their workplace. I think it has been very clear during the pandemic how incredibly central it is that there are risk assessments. It is ultimately the employer who is responsible for the working environment. Risk assessments should be carried out there. There, together with the safety organisation, trade unions and safety representatives, we must identify what can be done. There is no doubt that we need to further raise the level of ambition for health and safety at work and ensure that people are able to feel safe about going to work. I am very happy to continue this very important dialogue. I have also entered into such a dialogue with the social partners. I am happy to return to the Riksdag, not least when we are adopting a new strategy for health and safety at work, which I hope to be able to present at the beginning of next year.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-422	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark. Unemployment is increasing in Sweden. Therefore, the Employment Service needs to be available throughout the country. The government's mission to the agency has been clear from day one: The local presence of the Employment Service should be ensured in order to create good opportunities for the unemployed. If necessary, physical meetings should be made available, and the unemployed who need support should receive them. Arbetsförmedlingen has also been tasked with meeting needs for collaboration with municipalities and other actors.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-424	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Serkan Serkan, for the question! We are currently in the most serious crisis in the Swedish labour market in modern times. Then it is particularly important that we have an authority that is available and that works and that labour market policy works throughout the country. I usually say it has to work in the resort. What the government did for the regulation letter for this year for the agency was to point out precisely that we expect the agency to restore and ensure the local presence. That work has begun, and I see that there is more to do. That is why we have also announced that we will contribute SEK 1 billion in the budget for next year. Part of this is about meeting the rising unemployment rate. Another part is about continuing work to ensure and, if necessary, restore the local presence. It's got to work all over the country, and it's got to work at the resort.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-426	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Matilda Ernkrans. Today, much of the teaching at our universities is done online or digitally. The students' own surveys show that many students experience increased problems of anxiety and loneliness, and study motivation falls. Even before the pandemic, we saw worrying trends in mental illness. At the moment, there are an unusual number of people looking for help from the student health care system. Here in Stockholm, for example, where 100,000 students at ten higher education institutions and universities share a student health clinic, one is currently so crowded that there is not a single time to book. In the autumn budget bill, the government strengthened student health to increase the opportunity for student health to reach many students. This is, of course, welcome, because student health is invaluable. What does the Government intend to do to quickly increase access for students?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-429	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kristina Axén Olin, for the question! It is absolutely true that even before the pandemic it was noted that we need to find ways to increase mental health among our students. There was an increase in mental illness among our students compared to those working at the same age. For this reason, I and the government started such work even before the pandemic. The pandemic and the sacrifices and pressures it entails for students when most of the teaching is at a distance means that we need to have a further focus on this. This is also the reason why there is money for student health already in the autumn budget. UKÄ, University Chancellor's Office, also has a mission to map the country's student health and return to the government with suggestions on how we can strengthen equivalence. This re-reporting will come shortly, and it will be a basis for further work.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-432	Madam President, I would like We've previously been into green taxonomy. The Minister of Finance was grateful for this. I can inform you that this gratitude is not shared by all industries and individuals in Sweden. Swedish family forestry wants to continue to contribute to sustainable, fossil-free community development and replace fossil-dependent materials and energy and through its use keep Swedish forests in high growth – with its annual net uptake it now takes up about 82 percent of Sweden's annual emissions. How will this be affected by the proposed delegated acts for improvised forest management, which state that forest management plans are to be approved by the authority and monitored every five years and that carbon balance studies are to be carried out before each forestry measure? This is tremendous intervention. My question is: does the Government consider such a restriction of property rights to be acceptable?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-436	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for the question! We should remember that this is a proposal from the Commission – there are still opportunities to influence. And, as is often the case in the EU context, the proposals are obviously not exactly the way each Member State wants them to be. You have to strike a balance. But during the journey we have made great efforts on the part of Sweden to influence the proposals in a Swedish positive direction. It has also had a positive effect. Many proposals have moved in the right direction. We will continue to work towards this in the course of the further process. But it is also important to remember that the green taxonomy in no way excludes activities. It is about classifying which investments are considered green from the point of view of the financial market. But nothing prohibits investments or measures in forestry, for example. But, as I said, the government has been active. We will continue to be active to make taxonomy as good as possible from a Swedish point of view and to achieve Swedish environmental objectives.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-441	Madam President, I would like We hear recurring how the government speaks hotly for its efforts at the police and that a record number of police officers are being trained. But what is this really worth when reality is another? Police density in external service has never been lower than today, and at the Police College four out of ten places of study are empty for a few weeks. We also see how police officers continue to leave the profession prematurely due to poor wage conditions and an all-favorable working environment. The Police Authority has not conducted an employee survey since 2013. The management promises that it would be implemented in autumn 2019, and now it is 2020. Instead, the Polisförbundet has carried out a similar survey in which it has been found that 42 percent of the police are thinking about leaving the profession and 54 percent said that higher pay is the single most important measure to get them to stay. My question goes to Per Bolund: Is the government prepared to provide additional resources in the near future to greatly improve the pay conditions for our police officers?
i-V9DcauFhtS1aTCzdW3AP28	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Katja Nyberg, for an important question! We all make the assessment that more police resources are needed in Sweden and more people working within the Police Authority. That is why the government has set itself the objective of having 10 000 more police workers in 2024, and, fortunately, we are moving towards that goal, at the right pace. Police say the target will be reached. This is done, among other things, by extending police training, including with two new police training centres. As a result, the number of places has increased sharply. We have also provided a lot of resources to the Police Authority over the years, and for next year too, there will be additional billions that will be added to the police and that they can then use where they think the money will be most useful. When it comes to wage formation, it is not we in the Swedish parliament that decide wages, but the social partners do. We believe that this is a reasonable principle that should continue to apply.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-448	Madam President, I would like We have been reached by the terrible news that Iran will shortly execute Swedish-Iranian KI researcher Ahmadreza Djalali. His wife, Vida, is in the gallery. Hey, there's a lot of people behind you and your kids! I, his children and millions of other Swedes and Iranians expect the Swedish government to act forcefully to stop the execution of Djalali. My question is therefore: will the government make an ultimate demand to the Islamic Republic of Iran for the release of Ahmadreza Djalali? I believe that the government must make it clear to the Tehran regime that the execution of Ahmadreza Djalali will have a very negative impact on intergovernmental and commercial relations between Iran and Sweden.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-451	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Amineh Kakabaverh, for an incredibly important and outrageous question! Unfortunately, the human rights situation in Iran is still extremely serious. Human rights are a clear foreign policy priority for the Swedish Government, and this applies, of course, in this particular case as well. Our Foreign Minister, Ann Linde, has made direct contact with her counterpart in Iran and has clearly stated that the Swedish Government believes that the death penalty should of course not be enforced and that human rights must be respected. This is an issue in which we have had a close dialogue with, for example, the relatives, and we have clearly stated, through the channels available, that the current treatment is totally unacceptable. Of course, we think that Iran must listen to these voices and ensure that the death sentence is not carried out.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-456	Madam President, I would like Sweden and especially northern Sweden are largely carried up by traditional heavy industry. It is undoubtedly important for growth, jobs and welfare. Now much is happening in industry in northern Sweden. Much is about a transition to new, green and electrified industry and an industrial production without coal. To do this requires skills provision and research. What research and what efforts does Matilda Ernkrans, Minister for Research and Higher Education, consider necessary, and what preparedness does the government have to cope with the major transformation in cities such as Skellefteå, Luleå and Kiruna?
i-JVaArkcHtdDmcGnAwYT2JL	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isak From, for the question! It is really an amazingly good development that we are seeing in northern Sweden now, and of course there need to be many who see this development and can support and ensure that it becomes good. Part of this, from my point of view, is to ensure that we have higher education throughout the country. This is particularly true in northern Sweden. The government is expanding the opportunity to train through 19 000 new training places as early as next year. It is an historic expansion of higher education. We need to be able to support this with research. As I replied to a previous question, it is indeed an intensive stage now in terms of a new research policy. We have already announced that we are spending 3.4 billion on Swedish research next year, and over the next four years we are spending 13.6 billion. These are important initiatives for Swedish competitiveness.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-461	Madam President, I would like I would like to come back to a question to which I feel that the House has not really received an answer today, namely that of the European taxonomy and the definition of what is sustainable investment in the future. It will have a huge impact on what banks lend money to and where financial markets choose to invest. The Government of Bolund said in an answer to a previous question that he welcomes the regulations, but it can hardly be welcomed that fossil-free energy production or Swedish forestry are classified as unsustainable. The government has been criticised for not being involved in the negotiations. The Government of Bolund pointed out that it would be exactly the opposite. In that case, I wonder what the Government thinks of the proposals. Above all, I wonder: Is the government willing to vote against the proposals if they continue to mean that fossil-free energy production and Swedish forestry will be classified as unsustainable in the future? We know they're needed for climate change.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-464	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for a question that has been frequent in the debate! I very much welcome the commitment and think it is excellent. It is a commitment that is reflected in the Swedish Government, where we have been active throughout the process. This has made the proposal much better. Now there are great opportunities for us and for everyone involved in this matter to influence the Commission's proposal. It sounds to the House like it's already settled. Of course it is not, but there are great opportunities to influence the proposal further. However, I think we should all welcome the fact that there is now a common framework at European level that will give us a common view of what is a green investment. This enables foreign investment in Sweden, for example, in the transition that we are now making at a rapid pace. The government has already voted against the green taxonomy once because we did not think it adequately reflected the Swedish position. This clearly shows what the answer to Jessica Rosencrantz's question is. Our ambition is, of course, that we should have a good framework that we will vote in favour of.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-470	Madam President, I would like Quite exactly a year ago, on 28 November 2019, we were able to hear the Minister for Labour hold a press conference and promise: It is a matter of priority. 中 Signs in all honour, but they rarely address reality without these being priority issues. And these should be priority issues. Promises promised that Sweden would have the lowest unemployment rate across the EU. Instead, Sweden is now in place 24. Sure, we've been hit by a pandemic that we couldn't predict, but actually the rest of the world has, too. I have my parliamentary mandate from Sörmland, where the municipality is now forced to take extra responsibility in a situation where the government has stated that Arbetsförmedlingen has a priority to work with. My question for this reason is: when are the signs coming up? Or rather: When can we expect an active job coaching in all the municipalities in the country?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-473	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Ann-Sofie for her important question. We ended up in a very serious situation with regard to labour market policy when the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats were voted through in this Parliament. What we have done since then is to make it clear in regulatory letters that the authority will restore and ensure the local presence throughout the country. But we have also added more resources. This is a work that has begun. I really do share the picture from the honourable Member here that it is not enough for the sign to come up. It is also about what is behind the sign, i.e. that it works with collaboration with the municipality and that there is support for everyone who needs it, regardless of where in the country you live. This is an extremely important piece of work in which, in the midst of the pandemic and with a tough crisis in the labour market, we must continue to ensure that it works in different locations throughout the country. Very good work is done so far. But I am not yet satisfied. The agency is working on and will have strengthened resources for this purpose next year.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-478	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be rejected and for the reservation to be accepted. In the case of vaccinations, Sweden is a pioneer country. We started early, and when it comes to child vaccinations, we are among those who are most successful – well over 90% of our children are vaccinated against the various diseases that were common when I grew up but that are no longer there, such as polio. There is a little measles, and unfortunately in areas where the vaccination resistance is striking. However, there is a small number compared to what it looks like to the south in Europe, where the death rate in measles is appreciably high. This is something we should be proud of, but when the covid-19 vaccinations start, we should also pay attention so that we are really successful there and so that a fear of vaccination does not spread. We can never guarantee that any medicine or vaccine is free of side effects, but now we have set up a system to do so as safely as possible. I have had reason to follow the evaluation in European medicines control and how to proceed in a short time to do the same deep dives in the values in order to make this as safe as possible. However, it is important to keep up the positive spirit of opinion polls, and to this we have added that we should have a register – just as we have for medicines in general – in order to be able to track who has been vaccinated and to detect the side effects early. This is an issue we are now dealing with in the Committee on Social Affairs. I'll turn to today's question. We in the Liberals have for many years wanted to introduce a vaccination programme for year-long people, and this has been delayed for various reasons. There is an inequality in the country when it comes to vaccination against seasonal influenza. Here, however, the regions have received money, both special money and general transfers of money from the state to the regions. It is quite significant, and we believe that this money should at present be used for the vaccinations of year-long people. Then, when we are decently past this pandemic, we can take up a broad vaccination programme for year-rich people – not a narrow one, as it would be if we just adopted this motion for pneumococcal vaccination. That vaccination is not quite simple, because in the case of the 75-pluses it is a certain vaccine you can imagine. There, the cost is approximately 310 000 SEK per year per won qaly year. Secondly, the vaccine – what is to be used for more special needs, in special groups, and where the distinction between those who benefit from all vaccines and those who benefit from this more narrow vaccine is not clear – is, on the other hand, about SEK 1.4 million per successful qaly year. So you really have to think about what target group you have for that vaccination.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-483	Madam President, I would like This debate is about a bacterium, the pneumococcal bacterium. Otherwise, in recent months we have been used to the fact that it is a virus we are talking about! Diseases caused by pneumococcal bacteria are common. It is about pneumonia and meningitis, but also sinusitis and ear inflammation. Usually, small children suffer from this, and they rarely become seriously ill. But people over the age of 65 are also affected, and there the risks are much greater. Often it has major consequences for those who are fragile and suffer from pneumococcus. I will also say that you are treated with antibiotics when you suffer from a pneumococcal infection. We know, of course, the importance of reducing the use of antibiotics, so that part should also be included when we discuss whether to offer free vaccines against pneumococcals to all over the age of 75 and to those at risk. The question has not arisen at the moment, but I raised it last autumn with the Minister for Social Affairs. Then the interest in giving this vaccine to older people was cool. But after the pandemic became clear, in the discussions in committee and during the information meetings we had been asked if we in Sweden should not do what has been done in our Nordic neighbours Norway and Denmark, namely offer this vaccine free of charge to the elderly and risk groups. The reasons are two. One is that it would be a preventive measure that allows us to reduce the risk of this serious pneumococcal infection, which can cause pneumonia, for example. This would reduce the risks to these groups, which are already fragile and vulnerable and thus reduce the burden on health care. It would in itself be an important act during the pandemic. The second reason, which I have lifted up and which I do not think is immaterial, is that many of these elderly people have been forced into severe restrictions, restrictions and hardships in order for us to cope with the pandemic. Protecting older people has forced them into severe restrictions and restrictions. To give back and say that we offer a free vaccine against pneumococcus would be a wise act because it both prevents disease and provides some help. It also tells us that we see the person and that we are doing what we can to avoid the person's disease in cases where we can offer vaccines and something that prevents. But the government has been cold-hearted to do this. That is why the Left Party has submitted a proposal for a committee initiative which has now won a majority and which we are discussing here today. It's not that we're politically making up what vaccine it should be or whether it's cost-effective– that's what the Public Health Agency has done. I note that in some cases it is extremely important to follow the Public Health Authority, but in this case you think that you can not listen to them. The committee's report shows that: The committee notes that the Public Health Authority has proposed that pneumococcal vaccines for medical risk groups should be included in a specific vaccination programme. Following an updated health economic analysis, the Authority has also assessed that the inclusion of pneumococcal vaccines in a specific vaccination programme for persons aged 75 years or over may be cost-effective. They have therefore made the assessment that they always make: it is health-economically effective to do this. We can put that question aside and know that it works; it is good to do this. Then the question remains: Should the state interfere? It has been said in the past by Members that we have 21 regions and that they decide for themselves. Quite a lot of people have done it now, and I'm very happy about it. I come from the Region of Jönköping, which is led by the Christian Democrats. There we have a free vaccine against pneumococcals with the flu vaccine for a long time. I am very pleased that more regions have made this change this autumn. However, not everyone has done so, but whether it is offered free of charge still depends on where you live. It would be a great advantage if all over 75 and those at risk could be offered this free of charge. The argument that we must live with the fact that we have 21 regions and that they are responsible and that we cannot do anything is not good enough. We can make decisions in Parliament. We can allocate funding, and this is not a matter of large amounts. Daily we are spending billions in this House, but here we are talking not about it but about smaller amounts. If you want to achieve an equal offer of vaccines, the Riksdag also needs to make that decision. I would also very much like to see us get a broader programme – a really special programme – for older people. There is no contradiction in it, but we look forward to this being worked out and can be presented and implemented in the usual way. But we're in a pandemic. We need to take all the measures we can to reduce the burden on health care and to ensure that the elderly can have good health. The provision of vaccines free of charge to persons over 75 and to those in a risk group is one such measure. That is why, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal. I am very pleased that the initiative has been left and can now get a majority.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-498	Madam President, I would like 2020 is a year that I think most of us can hardly wait to put behind us. It is a year that will go down in history for so many sad things that even the longest chamber speech had not been enough to list it all. We are in the midst of a pandemic that has harvested more than 6,500 lives in Sweden alone. The spread of infection is very serious, and the time has come to work together in this serious situation – across all party boundaries and at municipal, regional and national level. We Moderates once again make ourselves available to do everything we can to ensure that the right decisions and measures are quickly put in place to do everything we can to limit the spread of the disease. Just a little while ago, the announcement came that the Government has commissioned the Public Health Agency to develop new scenarios for the spread of infection that will last three months. It has also just given the go-ahead to use rapid tests; we Moderates have pushed for this to be used. Madam President, I would like When you listen to the colleagues in the January parties who have spoken from this pulpit, you might think that it is any year and that there is no crisis or pandemic that has put the world in a completely new situation where large parts of the world are once again closed down and where we need to make exceptional decisions all the time to resolve the situation. Today's announcement by the government and the authorities also shows that this is an exceptional situation in which we find ourselves. If it had not been such a special year and such a special situation, I might have understood the arguments of the January colleges. But now it is no ordinary year, no ordinary time and no ordinary situation. I stress once again, Madam President, that this is a very special time that requires exceptional decisions. This House has done so throughout this year in a number of cases. Among other things, this has involved support for companies and various activities. There are several groups that have borne a much greater burden than most other groups. I am referring to our elderly and to people at risk. It has become clear that these groups must be protected in every possible way. I have also noted with regret that it is not quite as fast when it comes to taking important decisions concerning these groups as it is for other decisions. 2020 has shown this with painful clarity – not least IVO's report of last Tuesday testified to it. The death toll also gives a disappointing indication. That is why, Madam President, no effort must be made to protect our elderly and these groups of people at risk. Madam President, I would like I must say that this is the second debate today that surprises me. A majority in the Social Committee – the same as in the case of state leaders for assistance, i.e. the government parties and their support parties, the Liberals and the Center Party – reserves the right to try to do everything possible to protect those groups that have been largely trapped during most of the pandemic and which have gone badly. That is why we are taking the responsibility that the government should take – a government that, incidentally, puts more energy on blaming itself than on taking responsibility and combating the pandemic in a way that sends out clearer signals. Madam President, I would like We would therefore like to thank the Left Party for this initiative. We agree with the proposal on pneumococcal vaccines for the elderly and at-risk groups because it is the right thing to do right now, on the basis of the time and pandemic that is reaping too many deaths. What is pneumococcal vaccine? We in the Committee on Social Affairs have learned both to pronounce it and what it means. It is about not getting pneumonia, for example, with everything it means. Offering this to everyone, no matter where they live in Sweden, is an incredibly important measure to take right now. You should get it free of charge, and it should not matter where in the country you live. This, Madam President, not only protects people's lives by being protected from pneumonia, among other things, but it also means that the treatment that is now being so hard hit does not have to get some of the patients who will be very resource-intensive. They will require considerable resources from care, and they also belong to groups that, by getting pneumonia, also become weaker in their resistance to covid-19. We take the responsibility that the government should do. I can only say that it is difficult to take the Socialist Member seriously when he lists things like shingles. It is somehow not understanding the seriousness of the situation we are currently in. In 2016, the Swedish Public Health Agency developed a decision basis. However, in the updated health economic study conducted in 2019, it became clear, as my colleague Acko Ankarberg Johansson just explained, that it is important to be able to give everyone over 75 years of age and risk groups this vaccine. That is why, Madam President, I am very pleased that there is a majority in this House which today takes responsibility for enabling everyone, regardless of their place of residence, to receive the vaccine free of charge. It says that the government should take urgent measures so that all regions can offer people aged 75 years and older and people in medical risk groups free of charge vaccination against pneumococcals. I support the committee's proposal.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-514	Madam President, I would like We are in an uncertain time, a time when nothing is as usual. Particularly affected by the pandemic are our elderly and people who are in some risk group. Therefore, it is incredibly important that we can protect vulnerable groups and give health care the opportunity to work more preventively. According to the Swedish Public Health Agency's recommendations, people over 65 years of age and people in certain risk groups should be vaccinated against pneumococcals with the aim of preventing pneumonia, which this bacterium can lead to, among other things. Equal access to care is an important aspect of this issue. It shouldn't matter where in the country you live. The elderly and people at risk should be able to be offered this important vaccination. Nor is it reasonable that the cost of the vaccine should be up to 800 SEK in one region, while another offers the vaccine free of charge. A national commitment is therefore required. We need to take action to counter the inequalities that exist. A free pneumococcal vaccine will also be able to reduce the burden on healthcare, which is important not least during the current pandemic. The Swedish democrats have taken up the increase to be able to finance vaccination free of charge for all persons aged 65 and over, and also people in medical groups at risk. Despite the fact that current proposals are limited to 75 years and older, we are pleased that we are moving forward on this issue. Madam President, I would like The country's regions are working hard during the pandemic. In an acute situation, the capacity of intensive care has been increased, the number of care places increased and the test capacity increased. We cannot assume that the regions have the tools and resources to prioritise a free pneumococcal vaccine. Expecting that the aid received by the regions and municipalities as a result of the pandemic will lead to equal and concerted management is not very realistic. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is the state that should take responsibility for getting a structure and organisation that works. The tough situation we are in now requires a collective national responsibility. We do not want to shift more unsustainable demands on our already very hard-pressed regional organisations. This is not the way forward, and we have already witnessed this, for example, when it comes to the difficulties of bringing up the test capacity in the country. The priorities that we choose to make during the current crisis are telling. It is talking about how we view our elderly and what we are prepared to do for particularly vulnerable risk groups when it really is. If we take responsibility today, we don't have to be hindsight tomorrow. That is why we welcome the consensus that exists and the goodwill that underpins the proposal. For us, it is obvious that our elderly and medically particularly vulnerable groups should be able to safely protect themselves from severe pneumonia, not least in this uncertain time. It is a health prevention effort that contributes to society and to health care. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-524	On 13 September, I tabled a committee initiative. Then I knew that KD was running the same question as the Left Party, i.e. free pneumococcal vaccine. At the time, it was 65-plus and risk groups, but I'll get back to that. Now we have almost all of us in the Social Affairs Committee become doctors. Pneumococcals are bacteria that can cause pneumonia, for example. During the spring, we have been very clear to them how important it is to work preventively in the healthcare sector when it comes to the elderly. For example, every year 65-plusers and risk groups are vaccinated with the seasonal vaccine. The sad thing there is that out of 21 regions, 6 regions are charging for it, so even there you end up a little wrong. But we can come back to that in another discussion, Madam President. Getting flu or pneumonia can have extremely severe consequences precisely for 65-plusers. With regard to pneumococcus, my colleague from the Social Democrats said that 15 regions now have a free vaccine against it, that it has increased. Well, that's a plus in that case. But of course all regions should offer free pneumococcal vaccines. Why, Madam President? Well, in February, an article in the journal Intensive Care Medicine published that intensive care employees should be vigilant about seriously ill covid-19 victims of bacterial infections after a week. Magnus von Seth, who is head physician and head of medical management at the Central Intensive Care Department at Uppsala University Hospital, describes how to continuously search for bacterial infections in covid patients by taking bacterial samples and analysing chest X-rays, because it is so incredibly common that in intensive care people get pneumonia. Normally, 50% of patients treated for longer periods of time in respirators receive bacterial pneumonia. It's a very big problem, especially in these times. It is not possible to compare it with shingles, but it is simply fatal. Of course, it should not depend on the region you live in or the size of your wallet if you receive the vaccine free of charge or not. Equal treatment should, of course, mean that all regions vaccinate free of charge. Politics sometimes also means backing up and compromising. Even a left-wing party may do so. I would have liked to have seen free vaccination for 65 plus, but now it was 75 plus and risk groups. Why did this happen? Because the Public Health Agency has also assessed the cost-effectiveness of the pneumococcal vaccine. In a specific vaccination programme, they then propose free vaccination for 75 years and older, so we go for it. Today, we announce to the government that it will take urgent action so that all regions can offer free pneumococcal vaccines to people aged 75 years and older and people at risk. The committee believes that the cost should be borne by the state. We have an ongoing pandemic. Perhaps I had not put this committee initiative a year ago, but now I am doing it because it feels quite relevant. The government and its support parties, i.e. the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Centre Party and the Liberals, say that there is already money for this. We believe that the large sums that have been distributed to the regions must be used in the strained situation – for example, to the large staffing effort that is absolutely necessary because there is such enormous pressure on the staff. We need more equal care, classwise and regionally. Sweden needs to get a bottom plate to stand on when it comes to healthcare that ensures that regardless of the region you live in, you have the same conditions to get a good health care and survive. Before I finish, I would like to thank those who supported this, the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. It's an unusual combo, but that could happen in a committee. I support the committee's proposal.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-537	Madam President, I would like As usual, animal questions stir a lot of emotions. Insidiously, there are major conflicts of interests and influence, and I have the deepest sympathy for that. As a country, we have managed well to preserve and ensure the presence of large predators in Sweden, and we shall be proud of that. However, we have not been as successful in reducing conflicts and damage, and here we need to improve. We Social Democrats think that the Centre Party's initiative on this issue is commendable and that the process in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture has been good. Perhaps, however, this should have been initiated within the government base first. We believe that various measures are needed to prevent wild game attacks and injuries to domestic animals and, like the government, we consider that several measures must be coordinated. We can clearly see that there is a need for greater synergy between those affected by predatory policy and that respect for both humans and animals is required. We are clear that Sweden will have viable stocks of our large predators. It shall also be possible to carry out animal husbandry, to keep the land open and to hunt loose dogs. Now the S-led government is taking several measures to strengthen the country's predator management. It is about eliminating lock-in effects by, for example, removing the county minimum levels and looking at the minimum levels in each predatory area. This will provide better opportunities for targeted management where there is a greater density of predators. It shall also allow targeted operations where domestic animal husbandry is available. Furthermore, the budget proposes that the compensation for wild game damage be increased up to 100% and that the allocation for the promotion of reindeer nutrition be increased. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and some designated county boards have also been commissioned to investigate the possibility of receiving genetically important wolves that must be moved from places in Sweden where they have disturbed the reindeer industry. The S-led government secured a licensing system during the last parliamentary term. We Social Democrats believe that licence hunting is particularly important as a tool for stock regulation. License hunting is also better as it provides the opportunity to ensure planning conditions and to use local hunters who have good knowledge of the land. The purpose of what is being done is for humans and predators to coexist. A government, unlike the opposition, is also obliged to take the outside world into account in the form of international agreements and the EU. In the case of predatory management and specific wolf, an infringement case against Sweden is still being conducted. We must continue to deal with this, and we are concerned that Sweden will continue to have a clear right to use the tools it has to manage its own predatory strains. The hearing in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture clearly showed that there is reason to ensure a workable and legally secure protection hunt. Several measures need to be taken, and investigative and other missions need to be given to authorities. The Social Democrats and the Green Party have met constructively to find the widest possible majority, despite the fact that most of the proposals are directly or indirectly budgetaryly affected and should be dealt with in the budget negotiations. As far as the Centre Party's point-of-the-point initiative is concerned, we reserve ourselves and in our reservation we clearly describe how we want to take the issues forward. We believe that by law it is already possible to allow protective hunting on a complete territory rather than on individuals. We note that the recommendations of the Viltskadecentrum are old and not up-to-date from today's predatory strains and range and therefore need to be reviewed. We also believe that it is safe and relatively easy for people to apply for protection hunting. Different forms of support and advice are needed for people affected by predatory policy. There is a need to coordinate actions such as wildlife protection, predator-repellent fences, scare measures and faster protection hunts. We believe that in areas with large tribes and many territories, license hunting is the safest. The Christian Democrats and the other right-wing parties have lifted paragraph 3 out of the initiative, but we believe that it must of course be possible to use the maps that already exist at the Swedish Board of Agriculture and at the agricultural units of the county boards also at the county boards' conservation units. There are already confidentiality rules for protection hunting and licence hunting. However, they are applied a little differently. For example, the police may well use them and do so even when it comes to hunters. Should the government take greater responsibility for the protection hunt? Whose responsibility is it really? The issue was included in the basis of the predator bill presented by the Alliance government but then highlighted. Any member of the alliance is welcome to answer why that particular question was raised. Of course, if the state is to take greater responsibility, it costs money. It also limits the possibility for counties and responsible hunters to handle the protection hunt. We think that the issue of certified dogs is important. The Green Party conducted a RUT investigation that will probably be reported here in the speaker's seat later. There is reason to look at this and to allow for funding through the wildlife damage grant. It is reasonable that both dog drivers and dogs should be paid for through this grant. We see that these dogs do great good to ensure which animal has caused the damage, extent, if there are several different individuals and so on. Finally, the questions here are not new. They'll come back. But it is our task to find the largest possible majority for a procedure that achieves both conservation and farming and ensures traditions such as farm farming, reindeer husbandry and loose dog hunting. Madam President, I would like I commend our reservation.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-560	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Left Party's reservation 2 to be approved. Already in primary school we learn that Sweden is a country with a fantastic, large and rich nature with a great biodiversity and that in Swedish nature we have five different predators: bear, wolf, loo, wolverine and golden eagle. This is something to be proud of. But in the bourgeois side of politics there seems to be little pride in Swedish biodiversity. Time and again, bourgeois politicians put narrow special interests first. Conflicts are being constructed that do not fundamentally exist. In the past we have had debates about bourgeois politicians wanting to make it easier to destroy more forest in Sweden or want us to change laws, rules and taxes so that it will be cheaper and easier to emit exhaust gases. Now it's about making it easier to shoot more animals. This time it is a matter of making changes to what is called a wolf protection hunt. The parties behind the proposal are the bourgeois parties, which include SD, apart from the Liberals. Now we want to introduce a system in which it is not just the wolf that poses a threat that should be able to be shot. Now a whole territory will be wiped out. It is a rather big and serious change, completely contrary to the order we have had in the past. I argue that the protection hunt in Sweden generally works well. It's important that we have a protection hunt. You should be able to protect your domestic animals, yourself and your property if you operate in an area where there are predators. However, the proposal now before us is partly open doors and goes far too far. We say that the predator management in Sweden should be based on a scientific basis. It's important. We are also saying that we should respect our international commitments, for example, that we should protect our species and, in particular, those that are threatened. One example is the wolf, which is a strongly threatened species in Sweden. We expect politicians in other countries to assume their responsibilities for the protection and conservation of their species. I don't know how many times I've seen colleagues on the bourgeois side engage in endangered species in other parts of the world. But when it comes to our own species, where is the commitment then? We know that the wolf tribe has declined in Sweden in the last decade. It has to do with the wolf's natural habitat, where they live, nature, decreasing. It's getting harder for wolves to live naturally. But it also has to do with the hunting in Sweden, both the legal hunting, the so-called licence hunting, which we in the Left Party were opposed when they started to allow it on the wolf, and the illegal hunting, which is very widespread. Curiously, an argument was put forward when the licence hunt was introduced that it would curb the illegal hunt. There is no indication that this would be the case. We need to deal with these problems. I would like today's debate to focus more on how we can obtain viable stocks of our predators in Sweden and how we can respect our international commitments and have a policy based on science, not just public opinion. For example, we need to fight poaching. We can do this by having more eyes and ears out in our forests in the form of nature guardians and hunting supervisors who can carry out preventive work by being in place in the forest and ensuring that everything goes right. We also need to strengthen the judicial system and police work to tackle illegal activities. We need to facilitate natural immigration in order to strengthen populations purely genetically. Of course, we will increase resources to compensate farmers affected by predatory attacks. Of course, we will also ensure that there are sufficient resources to, for example, fence domestic animals and protect them from predators. Farmers and predators should be able to live side by side in our beautiful nature in Sweden. It should not be impossible, and it is not impossible. In other words, there is no reason to turn today's selective protection hunt into a mass destruction of the entire territory, which is the subject of this proposal. I therefore call for the proposal in the report to be rejected and for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-571	Madam President, I would like The majority of committees present a proposal whose aim is clear. They want to reduce the size of the wolf population in Sweden regardless of how wolf policy works. That this is the aim is clear from the arguments put forward when the committee initiative was presented. A number of members of the committee believe that we have too many wolves in Sweden and that this needs to be addressed, regardless of the consequences. Now that the proposal is in favour of decisions in this House, the figures are cleaned out, but the aim is the same. You want to reduce the wolf strain to a level that is lower than what is required for the tribe to survive. It is not up to this House to decide how big the wolf tribe needs to be in order to be viable. It is not a matter decided by political decisions. What is needed for there to be wolf in Sweden to be based on knowledge in the future. It is up to the scientific and expert authorities to assess the favourable conservation status. Parliament's task is to decide on the principles of predator management. We have also done so through our decision on predatory policy of 2013. Sweden shall achieve and maintain favourable conservation status for wolf, bear, wolverine, lynx and royal eagle. Liberals support this principle. For us, it is obvious that predators should exist, not least for the balance of the ecosystem. As knowledge of predators is constantly evolving, assessments of the size of the strains and their need for exchange with foreign tribes will vary. It's all right. The important thing is that we consistently work towards the goal based on the best knowledge we have right there and then. People and wolves live side by side in many parts of the world, and we liberals are convinced that it can work here in Sweden too. It requires, however, that we take people's concerns seriously and that we use the methods available to reduce human-wolf conflicts. It's about scaring individual wolves, putting up fences or using dogs. Once the methods available to keep the wolf at a distance from humans and livestock are exhausted, protective hunting of nearby individuals should be rapid and effective. We Liberals, on the other hand, reject the proposal to protect the whole of vargrevir as a general principle and question its purpose. There is a great risk that genetically important wolves will be shot and the entire territory will be eradicated. The policy of predatory animals and the hunt for protection must be seen in a context. We Liberals highlight these issues in our committee motions. But now that the wolf management through this committee initiative has been broken out, issues relating to wolves have not been dealt with in their context, and we find that regrettable. The Liberals would also have liked the full day hearing on the state of knowledge about the wolf tribe carried out by the committee on 14 September this year to have been an open hearing with public documentation. Eighteen organisations, authorities and ministries participated. The knowledge that emerged made it clear why some proposals in the Center Party's announcement initiative are problematic, such as facilitating the launch of an entire territory. We also note that the Center Party withdrew one of its proposals which could not obtain a majority in committee. Madam President, I would like Finally, a new hunting team investigation is needed. In addition to the forms of a more effective protection hunt, we also need to investigate how we can stop the illegal hunting of the large predators. We Liberals regret that in 2015 the government chose to close the investigation that would look at this particular issue. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be rejected in favour of the Liberals' reservation.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-582	Madam President, I would like There are about as many wolves in Sweden as MPs in the Swedish Parliament. In 2019 there were about 40 attacks on domestic animals in agriculture and about 20 attacks on hunting dogs of wolves, according to Viltskadecenter. Great progress has been made in reducing the damage caused by the wolf to agriculture. One example is the work on predator-repellent fences. Despite the increase in the wolf population in recent years, agricultural damage has halved. This is largely due to successful efforts with predator-repellent fences and other preventive measures. Soon the contribution to predator-repellent fences will be able to increase from 80% to 100% of the cost. I believe that compensation for farmers who have their animals torn by predators should also be increased. There are solutions to the challenges that the wolf brings to agriculture, solutions that work. In cases where problem wolves get into the pastures and cause trouble for the domestication and their owners, protection hunting is an alternative. Madam President, I would like I wish that all debates in the Swedish Parliament on wolves would be about the following: How we create co-existence between humans and predators. How we save the wolf from extinction and ensure favorable conservation status. How we prevent and reduce injuries to domestic animals and hunting dogs. How knowledge, research and facts can contribute to a greater understanding of nature and greater confidence in politics and administration. Madam President, I would like When I studied biology at Stockholm University in the 1980s, genetics was not the easiest subject. I know that it can be difficult to understand what it means that a species is genetically isolated and that a species does not achieve the objectives of genetic viability. It can be difficult to understand that genetic variation is the basis for all biodiversity, that species and ecosystems are dependent on genetic variation for long-term survival and resilience. Genetic variation is important for climate and other environmental changes, and favourable conservation status is based on genetic status. The Swedish wolves are isolated, and inbreeding is a problem. We are in great need of Finnish wolves to find their way here to Sweden, howls, mates, and get puppies. When the Centre Party took an initiative on the hunting of wolves, the Green Party and several parties met it by demanding that the Committee on Environment and Agriculture meet scientists and representatives of the authorities, ministries and various organisations simply to gain knowledge of these issues. They say knowledge is power. I would be glad if knowledge could form the basis for the power we exercise in the Swedish Parliament. Unfortunately, this is not the case today. That is why I would like to support our Amendment No 1. On 14 September, we held a digital hearing in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture on the protection of wolves. Then we met Linda Laikre and Nils Ryman from Stockholm University, who described the wolf's genetic situation in a very educational way. One thing is very certain – the genetically valuable wolves we need to be careful of, not afraid of. The Ministry of the Environment and Industry also attended the hearing. A new wolf must immigrate from Finland or Russia every five years, and it must reproduce with a Scandinavian wolf. All mortality needs to be taken into account when deciding on hunting in order to assess the impact on conservation status. Then we are talking about the total withdrawal of protection and licence hunting, the death of traffic and what is called disappearances, that is, the illegal hunt, which is far too great. Anyone who advocates more protection hunting must be prepared to reduce the other two forms of hunting dramatically. The illegal hunt must stop, and licensing must be reduced. The Ministry of the Environment also mentioned that the County Administrative Board has an urgent requirement for the administration. Three criteria must be met for protection hunting: to prevent serious damage, that there is no other appropriate solution and that favourable conservation status must not be jeopardised. The courts also have an urgent requirement in case of appeal. Coexistence between man and wolf can be greatly facilitated if protective hunting can be conducted wisely. Sheep, cows and horses grazing in our pastures do great environmental benefit. Animal husbandry needs to be protected and should also be able to work in areas with wolf. For example, a person who has horses does not normally receive a subsidy for electric fences because it is so rare for wolves to attack that species. But it should also mean that if there is any wolf who goes after the horse, it becomes necessary to hunt for protection directly on those particular wolves. Animal-repellent fences – five-wired electric fences or sheep nets supplemented by electric wires – usually provide good protection, but not 100%. Protecting the very wolves that break the code to get past a predator-repellent fence and attack the domestic animals is urgent. Protection hunting must take place relatively quickly, so that more wolves do not have time to learn the same method. It is important to work towards sustainable development in the long term. As the species recovers, protection hunting can actually be more simplified in the future. Special efforts should now be made to find alternatives to the protection hunt for genetically valuable wolf individuals. For example, it should be possible to move those individuals in a simpler way. The Center Party wants protection hunting to be granted faster, but in most cases it is actually handled very quickly. We must not forget that in many cases protection hunting has been granted so quickly that environmental organisations have shown that the Aarhus Convention has been abandoned. That is not acceptable. Legislation is there to be complied with. It is important that policy decisions are made on the basis of expertise, facts and research, not on the basis of a single example. More certified dogs are needed that can be used in inspection work. We think the government should keep working on that. The Environmental Party has commissioned RUT to produce a basic report that well describes how today's work takes place. Since the inspection staff's work is financed by the wildlife damage grant, dogs like this should also be eligible for funding from that grant. During the last parliamentary term, the Red-Green Government increased the damage allowance after it had been reduced by the Alliance Government. DNA sampling on grated animals where wolf life is captured is done to identify the wolf from which it comes. There have been times when protective hunting has been carried out, but it has not been the right wolf that has been killed. With d na tracking, such mistakes can be avoided. I would like to thank the Nature Conservation Association and WWF, who attended the hearing. I would also like to thank the Rovjursföreningen, which did not attend the hearing but has taken an interest in how we debate the wolf issue in Parliament. Let me quote a few sentences that WWF wrote in a recent article: We must break the widespread culture of silence surrounding crimes against large predators. More crimes must be reported and perpetrators prosecuted, otherwise the rule of law and democracy will be threatened by extension. The illegal hunt should therefore be vigorously combated by the authorities together with other actors in society. ..................................................... Coexistence between animals and humans is the key to success, I mean – peace, understanding, kindness and knowledge. Protection hunting can certainly be a good way to deal with the problem wolves that exist. Dropping the very few wolves that get into the pastures and tearing up domestication can reduce the problems. It is also a most reasonable measure to face the legitimate anger and sorrow experienced by the owners of grated domestic animals. It is also supported by the exemption rules of the EU Species and Habitats Directives. In June 2007, the European Court of Justice convicted our neighbouring country Finland of violations of the Species and Habitats Directive following a decision to hunt for protection on a whole territory. There may be a legal basis for protection hunting on a group of wolves under our legislation, but killing whole vargrevir is not compatible with EU and Swedish legislation.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-610	Madam President, I would like Now we stand here again and debate wolf in the parliament of Sweden. Of course, it is because this arouses feelings in different places. I'll try to explain why we're reasoning as we do on the Moderate side. Since I have not had the right to reply, I will also link something to what has been said before. The species is recovering," says the Green Party here in the speaker's chair. This means that you want the species to grow, that the wolves will be more. This goes directly against what we Moderates think. Rather, we think we need to lower the wolf population in Sweden. The political decisions made with the predator proposal referred to here today spoke of a number of wolves, but there they also talked about their being on the whole of Sweden, apart from reindeer grazing land and Gotland. Now it has been many years since then, and we see that we do not have wolf on that entire surface. The wolf is quite concentrated in a few counties, where we instead have a lot of wolf and where there are big troubles with the wolf. We wouldn't talk numbers here, but let me make it clear why we Moderates want to lower the wolf tribe. 170 wolves in Sweden had been a good speech. If since Norway has 30 or 40 we have 200 wolves on the Scandinavian Peninsula. It could work genetically. We have seen research and science that says it can work. Over the past year, we have seen more and more reports of domestic animals and hunting dogs being attacked. We will probably see even more reports of domestic animals being attacked as the wolf tribe moves more and more south, as it has now actually begun to do. The farther south we get, the more outdoor animals we will have during the cold months of winter when the foraging of the wolf may become more intense. Then the problems will be greater, and there will be even more reason to have a quick, effective and effective protection hunt. A previous speaker from the Left Party, Madam President, talks about narrow special interests. It's for the Left Party. I suppose the honourable Member takes the question of hunting into account, but he also weighs agriculture and food production into the narrow special interests, it is really very serious. If we are talking about endangered species, we will soon also have to start talking about Swedish sheep farmers. It's also starting to be a threatened species. A while ago, in the media, we were able to read about a sheep farmer in Uppland who five times in the last year had been subjected to wolf attacks in his sheep herd. He quits now. He is not alone in ending his animal production because of wolf attacks. It is a direct threat to Swedish food production and Swedish food readiness when producers feel that they are no longer able because of the wolf. Then I may find it very strange to talk about narrow special interests. There was also talk of whether one feels pride in Sweden and biodiversity. Of course, the Moderates are proud of Swedish nature and biodiversity. But we believe and believe that it is possible to have a smaller wolf strain than we have in Sweden today. Above all, we also believe that protection hunting can be handled far better than it is today. Among the proposals for announcements in the committee's report, to which I, on behalf of the Moderates, call for approval, is that the Government should instruct the Environmental Protection Agency to draw up new recommendations. It is high time we did. It's been 15 years. The wolf tribe looked very different 15 years ago, and the situation was very different 15 years ago. Is it good or bad to be able to decide whether to hunt for protection on a whole territory? Maybe that's very good. In counties such as Värmland – these counties will certainly be highlighted later in the debate – we have very many vargrevir today. They're also trespassing on each other. This means that there may be extremely little food for the wolf in certain areas where there is closeness between the territory. We can see then that there will be major problems. There was also talk earlier in the pulpit about the wolves that are disappearing. It was linked directly to illegal hunting. I would say that many wolves disappear because of territorial disputes between large territorial groups that are too close to each other. Then it may also be appropriate to remove a whole territory. There has also been talk of problem wolves here in the speaker's chair. However, there are a lot of people who say you can't talk about problem wolves. A wolf is a wolf. Probably the wolves learn from the other wolves in the group and in the territory, just like other wild animals. If they have learned from a parent animal that attacks and does in a certain way, so do the young animals. Then we have a problem, because then we have a vargrevir who commits these attacks. Another part of the proposed announcement is that the government should make it safer, easier and faster for people to apply for protection hunting. Absolutely! It is said here that today it works quite well and that it goes fast, but many times it does not. What I see as the biggest problem today is that we do not dare to apply for protection hunting because we have quite strong forces in society that are engaged in threats, harassment and vandalism against people who are going to hunt for protection and licensing, and also against hunters of our predators and other wild animals. That is totally unacceptable. Then we need to make it safer. We can go right over this with a review of the confidentiality rules. They can be used today but are not used enough, I would say. Therefore, I think it is very important that it becomes more the rule than the exception that there should be the possibility of confidentiality for the person who will carry out the hunt, the person who applies for the hunt or a possible hunter. Of course, it should not be the confidentiality of the decision itself, absolutely not, but we must be able to protect the people, and that must happen as a rule because we have the threat situation that we have today. When it comes to ensuring that the state takes greater responsibility for protection hunting, it is, of course, a budget issue, the Social Democrats. On behalf of the Moderates we have it in our budget this year. We think it is an important money, and that is why we have included it. We think it is important for the state to take full financial responsibility in this. Somewhere, we'll also have to start thinking about how much it's actually going to cost. How much will the wolf and predator management cost? There is much talk of predator-repellent fences and what preventive measures to use. Somewhere these sums will begin to escalate quite substantially. We believe that there are probably many more important things to spend the money on today. Instead, we might be able to reduce predator management to an acceptable level for all who are going to live with this. When it comes to investigating the conditions for funding training of certified dogs, it is great, of course. We need to have many of these dogs, because the faster we get a dog like this in place, the faster we can get a protection hunt and the faster we can deal with the problem.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-626	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask John Widegren whether he was listening to the hearing that we had in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture and whether he could state how many animals our authorities consider necessary to achieve favourable conservation status on the wolf. I would also like to ask John Widegren what the researchers who took part in the hearing thought about this. John Widegren raises the question of the wolf being denser in some areas. Hunting for large predators is to some extent necessary to prevent or prevent damage. But in Värmland and Dalarna, for example, which have a higher density of vargrevir than other counties, there is relatively little damage caused by wolf. Therefore, Parliament should not advocate a reduction in the concentration of the wolf population where it is most frequent. I wonder if John Widegren has a comment on that.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-628	Madam President, I would like When it comes to how many wolves are needed and what the researchers said on our wolfing, we have the discussion that there will be different numbers depending on which researchers you talk to. We also heard from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that the tribe is feeling pretty good genetically. We hear from SVA that there are no giant inbreeding problems with the Swedish wolf in relation to how many wolves we actually have today. The last question was about Värmland and Dalarna. Surely there has been a lot of food in these areas so that the wolves may not have had to attack. I cannot tell you exactly what it looks like – it is certainly possible to put that question to our warm friends in this House later – but we know that there are problems with territory that go into each other and the wolves themselves kill each other. It is those wolves that the honourable Member refers to as disappearing wolves – those that are supposed to be the result of the illegal hunt altogether. There are certainly traces of illegal hunting in Sweden today, and we certainly do not support that. I find it interesting to have an answer to what the honourable Member himself said in the speaker's chair that the species is recovering. Does this mean that the Green Party wants to see a growing wolf strain from the levels we have today?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-631	Madam President, I would like According to the information we received from researchers at Stockholm University, for example, it is necessary for us to have more wolves in Sweden in order to achieve a favourable conservation status. But we also need better coexistence between humans and predators. I wonder if John Widegren has any suggestions whatsoever as to how to improve coexistence between predators and humans. One area I was in is predator-repellent fences. The EU is now enabling us in Sweden to replace farmers with 100%. We can see that these fences are working well. The attacks on domestic animals have been more or less halved due to the fact that we use predator-repellent fences to a much greater extent in Sweden. Shouldn't we keep doing that?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-633	Madam President, I would like I definitely think that this coexistence is a good word that we should be able to use. But it should also work for everyone. In Östergötland we have seen a development where the wolf has established itself in the last few years and where it absolutely does not work. You fail with predator-repellent fences all the time. The wolf gets by and over them all the time and into existing sheep pastures. There the predator-repellent fences do not work very well. The existing RAS fences are not very efficient, but will need larger, higher and more expensive predator-repellent fences. I myself am a farmer with cattle and have a lot of pastures. I'm not very worried about the wolf yet, but the money that last time was available for Östergötland to search from for predator-repellent fences had not even been enough to fence my farm, and it was the money that was intended for the whole of Östergötland. So it is big money that we will have to deal with in the future to do this. The number of infested herds and other things was mentioned here. We see in Östergötland – I take it as an example because it is closest to me – that you do not dare to report when you get problems with predators. The peasants don't dare press charges. The keepers are afraid to report this threat. There's nothing to shake your head about, because these are facts. Here's the thing. Farmers are afraid to report. Then we will come back to the issue of coexistence and how it can work. Yes, it will work on the day when we have the acceptance of those concerned – from both sides. We are very far from accepting that today. That's what we need to deal with in the first place.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-637	Madam President, I would like Since I was directly apostrophated by John Widegren, I would like to make a comment on that. In Sweden we have about 300 000 hunters. I don't think it's a narrow special interest. But those who want us to shoot to death most of our wolves in Sweden think I have a narrow special interest. It's a very small but rather loud group arguing for it. What I would like to know is whether the Moderates are behind what has nevertheless been one of the foundations of Swedish predator management, namely that it should be based on science – what is sustainable. Then I would like to ask: where does the figure of 170 individual wolves come from? We know that there was a span in the bourgeois predator bill of 2012, and in that span 170 individuals were by far the lowest level. Rather, it was said that the span should be seen as a roof. What are you basing your science on because you can give a figure, 170 wolf individuals? I think it sounds very low if you want sustainable and viable predator management. My second question, on the previous line here, is about coexistence. Co-existence is very important, and it is good that the Moderates think so too. Preventive measures are important, for example, that we can fence domestic animals more. But then we need more resources. We in the Left Party are allocating more resources. How much more do the Moderates allocate to allow us to fence in and protect domestic animals? Actually, I haven't seen anything from the Moderates in that area.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-642	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for clarifying narrow special interests. One could easily get the picture that hunting as well as food production and everything was counted in there. Thank you for the clarification. The Moderates have said 170 wolves in the last year. When the predator bill was adopted, we talked about 170 to 270 wolves, but then it was a very large area. That area does not house wolves today. That is why the problem is widespread. In our exercise on predator policy, we have said that for some time the wolf tribe probably needs to be reduced to 170, in order to make a speech. It is needed to regain acceptance of the wolf administration and start building it from scratch. Last spring, 365 wolves were secured in Sweden. Then the wolves got puppies. Today we probably have between 400 and 500 wolves in Sweden. It's pretty far from the 300 that the Environmental Protection Agency is talking about. It's extremely far from the 170 we're talking about. Then you come up with a license hunting proposal for 24 wolves. It is not the stock-regulating licence hunt that we should be doing. In that case, we are talking about completely different figures today. From the beginning, it was even said that 100 wolves could be a viable strain in Sweden when genetically important material could be added. That's why 170 shouldn't be too bad for a while. We will also pick 30 to 40 wolves in Norway. Then we have more than 200 wolves on the Scandinavian Peninsula. We are absolutely convinced, and get evidence from Skandulv, that it will work.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-646	Madam President, I would like Here we have a pretty good example of how difficult it is for politicians to go in and point out how big the wolf population in Sweden should be. At first it was 170, but then only 100 could be enough. And if you add Norway, maybe there could be even fewer. It's not scientific in any way, John Widegren. In addition, all these figures require natural immigration of wolves, thus strengthening the genetic base of the Swedish wolf tribe. We know it's very inbred. I haven't seen anything like that in the Moderate proposal. I also put a specific question about coexistence and the importance of more resources to protect farmers and to preventive measures. I want to know how much the Moderates set aside, for example, for us to be able to fence in better. While we are talking about money, I would like to raise the proposal for faster decisions on protection hunting, which the Moderates are behind. I have nothing against decisions being taken more quickly, but the order we have today allows for very rapid decisions. The times when decisions on protection hunting are not made quickly are rather about a resource issue, I would say. Perhaps the county administrative boards need more money in order to have officials who are more prepared to make quick decisions? If the Swedish Parliament decides on faster protection hunting, it needs to be added money so that you can make even faster decisions. I would therefore like to know how much money the Moderates are proposing in their budget in order to speed up the decision on protection hunting.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-650	Madam President, I would like A quick answer to that question is that we do not have any targeted resources for it. However, we match the increase to the county boards that the government has presented. So there is an increase. I believe that the problem is rather the will of county boards to deal with it quickly and effectively than a resource problem. I have not received any signal that there should be resource problems that lie behind the possibility of dealing with protection hunting in a faster and more efficient way. So I think it is absolutely possible to deal with that. I was asked to set aside money for predator-repellent fences and other things. First of all, if we implement what we have said about reducing the amount of predators, we may not have to spend as much on predator-repellent fences. We'll see about that. But we still have the problem that predator-repellent fences do not work very well. I know farmers who have had cattle chased out of predator-repellent fences. Those cattle never become themselves again. Who will bear the cost when you can no longer handle those cattle? For they become wild after something like that. It's interesting to talk about resources even there. This is not something we can spend so much of our state resources on. It costs enough today. Someone here might have a figure on how much the wolf administration in Sweden costs today. It would be interesting to know. We spend a lot of money on it in Sweden. I believe that in the future there are many more important holes to put that money in when it comes to fighting crime, getting more police officers and restarting society when we are out of this pandemic. That money shouldn't go to the predators' administration. There's enough money there today.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-654	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report on the hunting of wolves to be approved. The concentration of wolf is problematic in parts of western Svealand and southern Norrland. I think we're all more or less aware of that. Cancelled licence hunts and difficulties in obtaining protection hunting are hot substances in the areas covered. The growth and concentration of the wolf strain is a challenge for livestock owners who keep sheep and other livestock, as wolf attacks have a major impact on the individual traders affected. Animal husbandry is made impossible, or at least severely impeded, in areas where family groups and territorial couples establish themselves. The reason is the difficulty in obtaining protection hunting granted, at least rapid protection hunting if you are even granted protection hunting. When sheep and dogs are attacked, the hunt must be quick and effective to avoid replaying over and over again. Protection and licensing of predators must work quickly and effectively when dogs, sheep and other domestic animals are allowed to die, but also when unscrupulous predators come too close to settlements and humans. The concept of protection hunting must also be broadened and used to a greater extent for preventive purposes. Rapid action would alleviate the agitated atmosphere in areas where predators have attacked and increase the acceptance of predators who have established themselves in the surrounding area. The government must take measures to ensure that predatory hunting is carried out quickly and effectively when domestic animals are threatened. Perhaps the hunting regulation needs to be updated and legislative changes made. At least something has to be done. In 2015, the Minister for Rural Affairs and the Minister for the Environment wrote that they would review the hunting of wolves. A report on the matter came from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. But then it has been quiet. The county administrative boards also have different yardsticks. Viltskadecenter has its rules of thumb, which some county boards stick to, while others thumb a little more on them. In Stockholm it has turned out to be easiest to get the protection hunting application granted, while it has been most difficult in Gävleborg, Dalarna and Värmland. It is important that hunting and game management works well as this is an important issue for many people in large parts of the country. In order to understand this properly, it is probably necessary for rural communities to be based on these issues, in dialogue with regional authorities, hunters' organisations, landowners, livestock owners and rural people in general. The fact that the crack between the city and the countryside is widening means that the Swedish Democrats want to work for a government exercise that holds Sweden together. In 2015, the Environment and Agriculture Committee issued an announcement on a new hunting authority. The same parties that are today behind this committee initiative were behind the announcement. But it is since then collecting dust in the investigation pile. Earlier this year – I think it was on 29 April – there was an announcement of more licensing in areas with the highest concentration of wolf. This too lies in the investigation pile, but only for six months so far. This was done by the same party constellation that has put forward proposals on today's committee initiative. The risk is obvious that even the announcement of a wolf protection hunt ends up in the same dusty pile. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is important to have a strong local and regional foundation in terms of influence and decision-making among the people who live and work there. That animal rights activists who travel around the country should have the right to appeal government decisions is regrettable. This exists both in organized form and as more loosely composite. They saw down hunting towers, threaten and abuse hunters, and sit above the law of government decisions do not go their way. It's getting very uncomfortable now. In my world, it is the locals – not the eco-terrorists – who have the strongest voice in their own home country when it comes to issues related to their animals, business, home country and security. The policy of the Swedish Democrats is to seek to reduce conflicts and problems between predators and people in rural areas with an administration whose purpose is to keep the numbers of predators at an appropriate level. In the end, too large tribes strike back at the predators themselves. Where earlier years have been able to hunt, outdoor life and animal husbandry, you can in many cases no longer feel the sense of security and freedom you once felt. Too often you worry about the safety of your hunting dog and domestic animals. Many families with children also have concerns about their own children's safety outside the home, both during play and while waiting for school shooting. The wolf is not a playmate. A living countryside with safe people and animals is something that can be difficult to reconcile with, for example, the presence of several vargrevir in the same municipality. When attacks on domestic animals and dogs take place, the wolf has come too close, and protection hunting must, as I said, be carried out quickly. No pet owner should have to live with constant anxiety and anxiety about losing their animals, whether they are sheep, dogs or other domestic animals. Furthermore, no reindeer owner should have to lose income from slaughter and more because of excessive predatory pressure. Since reindeer grazing land already houses wolverine, lynx, bear and golden eagle, there is no room for the establishment of additional predators if the reindeer industry should at all be given a chance to survive. Protection hunting in the areas of the Sami villages should also be strengthened, as in other parts of the country where the concentration of predators affects humans, their dogs, domestic animals and businesses. When a new predatory policy was adopted by the Riksdag in 2013, the goal was also decided that the reindeer industry should not have to withstand higher losses than a maximum of 10 per cent of the reindeer herd. However, this was not incorporated into the legislation but was just an objective. Here the possibility of a protection hunt needs to be strengthened. Vargrevir in renbetesland is not consistent with the objective of a percentage loss. In Värmland there are in my areas Rackstadreviret which includes the municipalities of Arvika, Kil and Sunne. During 2017 and 2018, the County Administrative Board of Värmland decided in four different rounds on protection hunting on six wolves there. Meanwhile, three dogs were killed and three more were severely injured. If one had acted even after the first attack by deciding to fell the entire territory, most dogs would have lived and been unharmed today. The hope was to bring down the turf-marking couple and thus succeed in putting an end to killed and injured dogs. Here's what it looked like.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-672	I read it in reverse order. In fact, the year before, a dog was killed in the territory.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-673	When attacks on domestic animals and dogs occur, all wolves in a territory are equally large problem individuals. In order to achieve efficiency in the protection hunt, the entire territory should be eliminated and not individual wolves. This means the American scientist Boyd Diane. It's the herd behavior that controls, and wolves imitate what other wolves do. There are no problems with removing individuals when attacks are repeated. It is naive to think that the problem has been solved because of the shooting of the wolf who has carried out attacks. Delaying the protection decision and taking one wolf at a time is a devastating thought for dogs and domestic animals. The problem continues until the territory is simply gone. This has been pointed out by Boyd Diane. She's a very recognized scientist in the United States. She attended a seminar in Vålådalen and talked about these theses. We should therefore now ensure that hunting for an entire territory is allowed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency drawing up new recommendations that simply make this possible. Protection hunting must be decided with quick decisions. No one should have to worry about losing their animals or ending their business. Madam President, I would like No hunter who has been assigned to hunt or hunt game shall be subjected to threats or reprisals. This is a major and growing problem with environmental and left-wing movements as leading players. They hide not only behind masking but also behind the cover of civil disobedience. It is right and necessary to review the confidentiality rules here. Ensuring that the state takes greater responsibility for protection hunting is important. All areas must be treated equally. All county boards must have the same criteria for how they apply the regulatory framework with initiatives and responsibility for the protection hunt. According to the current regulations, you can take the initiative to hunt for protection and thus take responsibility for the protection hunt. The county administrative boards can also take financial responsibility for the protection hunt, but they need to act equally. This needs to be reviewed. More certified inspection dogs would be needed. I think there are five in Sweden today. There is a great demand from both county boards and private individuals. It would be welcome to examine the conditions for funding the training of certified inspection dogs through the wildlife damage grant.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-680	Madam President, I would like Runar Filer mentions that there is a hatred in Sweden. I would really like to emphasise that there is never any reason to hate either wolves, farmers, Sami, conservation officials or, for that matter, politicians. We Members of Parliament must really make sure that we work against all forms of hatred. Protecting the wolf tribe that lives in Sweden is our country's responsibility. This is clear from the Species Protection Regulation, the UN Convention on Biological Diversity and the EU Species and Habitats Directive. My question to Runar Filer is: Do the Swedish Democrats think it is right to break the law?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-683	Madam President, I would like No, I do not think it is right to break the law. Absolutely not! We have laws and regulations, directives and conventions to deal with. But perhaps there has been an over-interpretation of the Species and Habitats Directive. It does not say that we should have a certain number of wolves in Sweden. On the other hand, this directive ensures that we in Sweden can make our own decisions. We have to be able to do that. The Swedish Democrats absolutely do not want us to be governed by EU rules and conventions, but believe that we must have our own independent opportunity to make decisions here in Sweden. We do not think that the EU has anything to do with the hunting in Sweden. The Hunting Act is to be regulated in Sweden by Swedish politicians and not from the EU and Brussels. In 2013, that was 170 – 270 wolves. However, it was not many years before the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency commissioned new research, and if you order research from the right researchers you get the results you want. That is why we now have a problem in Sweden where we do not follow the parliamentary decision that was taken at all. We have also already in 2014 laid down 170 wolves as favorable conservation status. We know the League of Hunters says 150 wolves. We know that Skandulv's research long ago said 100 wolves for the smallest viable population. The League of Hunters put on 50 so that it became 150, which they think is a favorable conservation status. We are prepared to ensure that that limit becomes a decision in the Riksdag, which was also very close. However, there was no majority in favour of it, as the Center Party withdrew.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-687	Madam President, I would like Sweden is now a member of the European Union, and then we should comply with the legislation in force in the European Union. When it comes to research, it is extremely important to remember – that we have learned from the climate debate – that we should not listen to just one researcher, but that we make balanced assessments of all research and see that many researchers say something. It can then be concluded that 300 and even more wolves are needed in Sweden plus that new blood needs to be introduced into the wolf population every five years in order to achieve a favourable conservation status. I have a question about what Runar Filer mentioned about North America and North American research. Were these wolves in the same way as the Swedish wolves genetically affected and inbred? In such cases, does the same conclusion arise about shooting the entire territory if you have a genetically inbred wolf strain compared to if you don't have it? I have one more question. In 2019 there were about 40 attacks on domestic animals in agriculture and about 20 attacks on hunting dogs. We found out at the hearing that we had. SLU also showed that the damage has been halved even though the wolves have increased in recent years. Why is that?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-691	Madam President, I would like Thank you, honourable Member, for the questions. From 2007 to today 241 dogs have been killed by wolves. In Värmland alone, 69 dogs have been killed. In my municipality of Sunne there are 13 dogs. In the municipality of Ottosson, there are 6 of them, I think. So that is not a small number. Had there been a rapid protection hunt every time, we would have largely saved the lives of dogs – absolutely. These are large figures, but that is nothing compared to how many have been injured. When it comes to research here in Sweden, Jens Frank answered at Viltskadecenter directly to my question if it might be necessary to investigate this by shooting out of the entire territory instead of taking individuals one by one that he thought absolutely would be good. He is therefore in favour of what Boyd Diane said, namely that there is no research today that points to and can prove that individual individuals are problem individuals. He thought that it is very likely that she says, although there is no research on it either in Sweden. Maria Gardfjell says that there have not been so many injuries in Värmland now. Of course it has. But the number of dogs that have been killed may not have soared as it did for a while. In 2007 and 2008, 49 dogs died in Sweden, including 18 in Värmland. It's not that high now, but it's still two three dogs dying every year. That's two three dogs too much. We believe that if we chase out a whole territory instead and quickly shoot the problem individuals, we're done with the problem.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-696	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report 2020/ 21:MJU5 on the hunting of wolves. The Center Party proposed last spring that it would be safer, easier and faster to protect wolves. In Sweden we have two types of hunting, on the one hand license hunting that is designed to regulate the game strains, and on the other hand protection hunting that is designed to remove individuals or groups of individuals that cause injury or that can cause injury. The Center Party believes that one of the most important elements of gaining acceptance for the wolf management we have in Sweden today is that wolves that cause serious damage, exhibit abnormal behaviour or stay in cities or agglomerations should be able to be protected with the support of the new rules and the recommendations we propose. Runar Filer mentioned Rackstadreviret. I, too, was going to bring it up, but since he has already mentioned it, I do not go into it very much. After all, it can be observed that there they wanted to remove one wolf at a time, and they had to remove four wolves before the flock finally split up and left the area. You can always ask yourself whether it is reasonable to handle injuries that can continue to occur once and for all. Should owners of dogs and domestic animals have to endure this? The Center Party therefore proposes to make it easier to protect entire territory and also genetically important wolves. As we have heard, the recommendations of the Viltskacenter on protection hunting are 15 years old and no longer relevant, which the authorities themselves lift. In fact, there is already a legal possibility today to take decisions on the protection of a whole territory. There's nothing in the law to stop it. Instead, the problem is that the regulatory framework is not being applied in this way. Instead, one wolf at a time is hunted for protection, and the overall process takes far too long. Therefore, a new practice and new recommendations are required which clearly allow protection hunting decisions in case of repeated injuries to cover all wolves in the harmful flock. We also believe that protection hunting of genetically important wolves should be possible on grounds of public health and safety and on other imperative grounds of overriding public interest, including social or economic causes. Protection hunting, unlike licence hunting, shall not have to take into account the genetic status of the wolf causing damage. Having different yardsticks on the damage that a genetically important wolf and a non-genetically important wolf may cause harm to the whole purpose of protection hunting. In order to avoid that decisions on protection hunting need to be made, preventive work is of course important. It is already possible today to grant protection hunting to a species that has not yet reached favourable conservation status as long as protection hunting does not make it difficult for the species to achieve this status in the longer term. That is why the Center Party in this report proposes that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency should be given the task of drawing up new recommendations for the hunting of wolves in accordance with our proposal. Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants it to be faster and easier to apply for protection hunting. For those people who have to take the consequences of the policy of the wolf, it is important that, when attacks are about to take place or have taken place, the county governments act promptly to prevent attacks or renewed wolf attacks. Therefore, protection hunting decisions should be made in a simple manner in certain given forms. The carnivore bill of 2013 states that the wolf's presence in counties with farmland, intensive sheep farming or archipelagos should be limited to the areas where it does the least damage. This should mean that protection hunting should be quickly granted both in these areas and in areas with large livestock holdings. And this is in line with what applies to the reindeer husbandry area. Why should wolf be tolerated in animal husbandry areas when we fully agree that the wolf should not be present in reindeer husbandry areas? In the case of a wolf causing a major injury, a rapid decision on the protection of the wolf should be made independently of the genetic status of the wolf. Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants to ensure the possibility of requesting confidentiality in order to avoid people being subjected to threats and violence. It is already possible today to keep data confidential in connection with protective hunting. However, this possibility is used to varying degrees depending on the authority that decides. In our opinion, anyone who applies for a protection hunt or performs a protection hunt should be able to have their personal data classified if so requested. The actual decisions on protection hunting and the justifications shall not, of course, be subject to confidentiality. Madam President, I would like The State's responsibility for protective hunting needs to be clarified. The great predators are the wild of the state, and it is reasonable for the state to take greater responsibility for the damage caused by predators. The county administrative board can, according to the current regulations, take the initiative in the protection hunt and thereby take responsibility for the protection hunt, and the county administrative board can also take the financial responsibility for the protection hunt – which also happens. These opportunities should be used more frequently. Today we know that there is a great difference between the various county boards in applying the regulations. However, the actual conduct of the protection hunt shall be handled by locally approved hunters who are aware of the land and game in which the protection hunt is carried out. Madam President, I would like We want to review the certification of dogs that can ensure wolf attacks. Today, the activities of predator-savvy inspectors are financed by the wildlife damage grant. There is a need to certify more dogs that can ensure that there has been a wolf attack. We would like to ask the government to investigate the conditions for funding the training of certified dogs through the wildlife damage grant. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to say that dealing with the current predatory policy on wolf in particular has created a confidence and confidence gap between those who apply the legislation and those who suffer from it. The proposals put forward by the Center for protective hunting are a small piece of the puzzle to restore trust. Much more will be needed. The combined predatory pressure must be reduced in several areas in Sweden. It is not reasonable for certain limited geographical areas to carry such a large part of the Swedish predatory strain. Therefore, licensing should be increased in the middle Swedish administrative area, which today houses more or less all wolves in Sweden. It is reasonable to reduce the number of wolves in this area to 170. If Sweden and Norway co-manage the wolf tribe, we will also be able to meet the targets set by the Riksdag for the wolf administration.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-710	Madam President, I would like I have some questions for Peter Helander. Peter Helander says there are two types of wolf hunting. I'll count to three. What types of wolf hunting does Peter Helander think there are? Peter Helander also says that injuries occur time after time in certain contexts, and he refers to an example where protection hunting on wolf was granted but had to grant new protection hunting on wolf. Is there support for the proposal that the Green Party considers important, namely to take more and more systematic DNA samples on wolves to identify which wolf individual is to be protected? My third question concerns the desire of the Center Party to hunt for genetically important wolves by means of the hunt for protection. Why? How does it affect the wolf's favorable conservation status?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-714	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Gardfjell for the questions. There are two types of hunting, although I know that Maria Gardfjell is looking for a third type. There's protection hunting, and there's license hunting. This is the division that exists in Sweden. According to the EU, there is no protection hunt. Protection hunting and licence hunting are not broken down in any way within the EU; it is hunting. Then it was the expression time after time. It was a good example from Rackstadreviret of how bad things can go when we do not remove a whole territory at once. Remove territory we have done in the past, for example during license hunts. We sometimes remove the entire territory. I believe that if there is repeated damage, the whole territory should be blocked off. Maria Gardfjell knows that the behavior of a wolf pack is spreading within the pack. When the Alpha couple teach their puppies to hunt in a certain way, they continue to do so. It is not that a wolf learns to crawl under a predatory fence and that the others do not understand it. Learn one learns everyone else. That is why it is important for us to be able to remove a territory on certain occasions, in the event of major injuries. It is not something that should be used in general all the time. It's great to take DNA samples of individuals, isn't it? I have nothing against wolf fences, predator fences, to take DNA samples, to work preventively and so on, but in some cases when there is a vargrevir that causes great damage you should be able to remove the entire territory. It is already possible to do so under the legislation. Then there was the issue of protecting genetically important wolves. It will not be the case that we are looking for genetically important wolves. The protection hunt is designed to remove those individuals who cause great damage. Allowing a genetically important wolf to continue to cause great damage just because it is genetically important does not rhyme at all with the concept of protection hunting.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-721	Madam President, I would like There are two types of wolf hunting, says Peter Helander. I mentioned the WWF in my speech, which says that we must break the widespread culture of silence that prevails about crimes against large predators. More crimes must be reported and perpetrators prosecuted, otherwise the rule of law and democracy will be threatened by extension. The illegal hunt should therefore be vigorously combated by the authorities together with other actors in society. It is by not talking about the third form of hunting, the illegal hunting, that we allow the culture of silence to spread. Peter Helander has attended a hearing where researchers, authorities, ministries and organisations have told us how exposed the Swedish wolf strain is genetic, that all wolves in Sweden are so genetically inbred that in practice it is siblings who mate with each other and get puppies. It's very serious. Therefore, we must be careful of the genetically important wolves, not afraid of them, and it is therefore remarkable that the Center Party wants to hunt down the genetically important wolves.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-723	Madam President, I would like I'm a little surprised that Maria Gardfjell believes illegal hunting is a form of hunting. Illegal hunting is a criminal activity, not a hunting form. License hunting and protection hunting are the hunting forms that exist in Sweden. I have not heard anyone in this House stand behind illegal hunting. I suppose it's a goal for us to avoid any illegal pursuit we can. Everyone in the Environment and Agriculture Committee agreed to hold the hearing. Many organisations were invited. It was a full day where everyone was allowed to talk 15 – 20 minutes each. Some of the organisations were specially invited by Maria Gardfjell and the Environmental Party. This is how it works, i.e. inviting the organisations and researchers who support your own theses. There are other organizations and researchers who talk about other things. When we in Parliament made the decision of 170 – 270 wolves, it was based on 100 viable individuals who could reproduce. To produce 100 viable reproducers, we need 170 wolves. Then we resorted to a safety grip and added another 100, that is 170 – 270. Now Maria Gardfjell cannot answer, otherwise I could have asked how many wolves we have today. The Environmental Protection Agency says we have 350 wolves, DNA-tracked wolves. Then the Norwegians say 10 percent is not found. Norway has 90 wolves. So we have 450 wolves in Sweden, plus 10 percent that are not found plus all the wolves born in the spring. In Dalarna, the number of wolves increased from 2019 to 2020 from 35 to 65, a rapid increase. Of course we should not remove the genetically important wolves. We're gonna make sure there's more wolves in there so we can keep the tribe down. It is also a goal that the Center Party has.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-728	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for reservations to be rejected. It feels very special to be able to do it for once. Why are we here today discussing protection hunting? Well, it is for the simple reason that we in Sweden today do not have a predator management that is worthy of the name. We do not have predator management that takes into account the high concentrations of predators that we have in some parts of our country. As we heard earlier this spring, we issued an announcement based on a motion by the Christian Democrats to increase licensing in areas with high concentrations. Nothing has happened – until yesterday, when I noted that the government intends at least to remove the county minimum levels. We heard that Isak From mentioned this in his speech. Madam President, I would like In predatory policy and, above all, wolf policy, we have gone from ditch to ditch. 1965 the wolf was outlawed. In 1966 it was protected. Almost ever since then it has been protected. For several reasons, the wolf must be hunted. Today we hear a lot about the wolf's behavior – that its behaviour is unnatural. It's not unnatural at all. We have a wolf tribe that has not been hunted, and thus the wolf is not afraid of man. It has not learned that man is an enemy, and therefore it is most natural for the wolf to cross over farmyards and walk along animal pastures and so on. In addition, there is food — food that is very easy to obtain because it is trapped. Why, then, do we have no functioning predator management? The main reason, Madam President, I think is urbanisation. We live farther and farther from nature. As a result, more and more people lack understanding of what it is like to live in rural areas in general and with predators in particular. As we heard here before, Värmland, which represents 4 per cent of Sweden's surface area, according to the latest inventory, has a quarter of the entire Scandinavian wolf population. Is anyone surprised there's damage? Is anyone surprised that there are conflicts? There will be no vote on this today because the time is so high. But next week when the decision is to be made, those who are then here and vote to make a decision that in any case forms to some extent what Sweden we want and which Swedish countryside we want. Do we want a living countryside with everything it means? Do we want a countryside with grazing mules that ensure that we have a high level of biodiversity? Do we want a rural area with producers of food and materials replacing C O 2 intensive materials? Do we want a rural area that provides quality of life and carries out activities such as animal husbandry and hunting under safe conditions? Or do we want a countryside that's a big Skansen? As we heard here earlier, the report deals with five points. I will not be rumbling them up again; it is already done. But protection hunting in Sweden is regulated in Section 23 of the Hunting Regulation. It contains, inter alia, public health and safety considerations or other imperative reasons of overriding public interest, including social or economic causes and significant positive environmental impacts. It is one of the considerations to be taken when granting protection hunting. I note that the guidelines of the Viltskadecenter, which are followed in this regard, are not entirely in line with the provisions of Paragraph 23 of the Hunting Regulation. As we have heard before, the guidelines are also 15 years old and no longer relevant, as we say ourselves. They were written in a different time, when we had completely different concentrations of wolf. The wolf is a dog, and they are very easy to learn. They also learn from each other. If a family group starts to attack domestic animals, removing a wolf will not help much. As we heard in a previous post, they learn from each other, so once the alpha couple has learned how to hunt, the offspring continue in the same way. It is often lonely animals, who are not able to hunt in flocks, that take simple prey. Mr President, I would like to skip Rackstadreviret because it described Runar Filper quite thoroughly. But as an extension of this, if decisions are taken on the protection of one wolf at a time, then the overall process takes too long. That is why a new practice and new recommendations are needed that make it much easier so that we can stop the repeated damage. When we discussed this in committee earlier, we talked about Germany. There, some states have made a different interpretation. There you go in and remove wolves and even entire territory until the damage ends. The EU has not acted on this. Otherwise, we in Sweden are very good at hiding behind the EU. It is a favourite branch we have – we are happy to blame the EU. If it goes all the way then it is not so careful, but it is easy to blame the European Union. Madam President, I would like If we are to gain acceptance for predators and predators management, we must take people's problems seriously and not put a big city focus on the issues. If you ignore the problems, ignore people's experiences and feelings, and then be surprised at the reprehensible illegal hunt – yes, Madam President, you have not understood. This affects people's everyday lives, and it affects people's everyday lives deeply. We have quite a few research reports, one of which is very new, which are clear that if we want to reduce the illegal hunt we will increase the legal one. Give people power over their lives! Illegal hunting is an evil that destroys for us law-abiding humans. Therefore, we must do what we can to remove it. One way, which research also supports, is to increase legal hunting. Protective hunting shall not have to take into account the genetic status of the wolf causing damage. Having different standards for damage as a genetically important wolf and a non-genetically important wolf does not rhyme with the purpose of a protection hunt. In Norway, they call it pest control, and that's exactly what it is – you remove pests. As we have heard earlier in the debate, many have views on this. However, it is not associations or nature protection organisations that have a preference for interpretation of the directive; it is the politicians in the Member States and the European Court of Justice. There are exceptions to the protection provisions regarding wolf in § 16, where you write about socio-economics, people's security, culture and so on. The directive does not put the wolf before man. It consists of 13 pages, which have since been distorted into thousands of pages which, moreover, have never been fully tried in court. Today, we see that protection hunting opportunities are not interpreted according to directives or EU law but, unfortunately, often based on the views and opinions of different people and organisations. Where is the rule of law, Madam President? I note that my allotted speaking time has expired. Therefore, I would like to conclude by saying that the wolf is the wildness of the state, and it is managed very limited. It is not at all like with several other species that are also the state game, where we have a real hunt. It is only right for the state to bear the costs. It breeds wolves on other people's property.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-750	Madam President, I would like The climate challenge is real. Here and now we see the effects in the form of more extreme weather, drought and floods. Together, the countries of the world must achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement and halt global warming. Politics has a responsibility to focus on the right things, which actually contribute to reducing emissions. The climate has neither time nor money for anything else. Within the framework of the Paris Agreement, we have our Swedish climate goals: that Sweden should be climate neutral in 2045. As far as transport emissions are concerned, they will be reduced by 70% by 2030. This is where I lack a unified grip from the government. We know, for example, that the reach anxiety is crucial when people are thinking about whether they should dare to buy an electric car. People do not trust that there are charging possibilities so it is enough to get to work or the cottage or in other ways get everyday life together. At the beginning of a technology shift, the state has a special responsibility to get the charging infrastructure up and running and not least to fix white spots where market forces are not enough. In the Moderates' budget, we therefore invest 1 billion annually in expanding the public charging infrastructure for both passenger cars and heavier cars – twice as much as the government. The support is technology neutral for it to be used for charging stations, electric roads and even fuel stations for fossil-free hydrogen. Biofuels will also be crucial during a transitional period. There we are spending EUR 1 billion on a specific green fuel subsidy to get the domestic production of biofuels going, which is an excellent addition to the reduction obligation that many in this House are behind. In addition, we have a policy to ensure that we can meet the need for up to 60% more electricity by 2045 in order to cope with the climate change we are facing. However, Madam President, today we are discussing another concrete instrument for the transformation of the transport sector, namely bonuses – malus. We note that the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism is stinging. It can be added to extensive previous criticisms from other expert authorities. For example, the Institute for Economic Development feels that the system has so many shortcomings that it should be abolished. Several of these shortcomings point to the Swedish National Audit Office's report. There is a lack of impact assessments on the environment and the national economy. The cost of reducing emissions is very high. There is a twitch in the design, with ever-changing regulations. The system is out of step with EU legislation, which already imposes mandatory requirements on vehicle manufacturers to reduce emissions from new cars. Aid is unevenly distributed in the country. And, finally, high exports of subsidised environmental cars are increasing significantly, it says, the socio-economic cost of reducing emissions. In particular, the issue of exports is extremely central. That is why the committee is calling on the government to urgently address the problem of exports of environmental cars. Since the introduction of the Malus system, SEK 900 million has been paid out for environmental cars exported. In 2018, nearly 7 per cent of all new electric cars sold for export went to Norway, according to Trafikanalys. The Swedish bonus thus subsidises Norwegian electric cars while helping to reduce the supply of electric cars on the Swedish second hand market. The impact on emissions in Sweden is significant. According to estimates from Chalmers Industriteknik, Sweden has lost emission reductions of nearly 200,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide. The climate challenge is indeed global, so we welcome emission reductions wherever they occur. But it is not reasonable for Swedish taxpayers to subsidise environmental cars in other rich countries. The government's response to the criticism is not sufficient. The proposal to reduce exports of electric cars that are being consulted has been strongly criticised. The government has proposed an export freeze during the first five years and that it is the first owner who will be liable if this is not complied with, regardless of who exports the car. Clearly, the government needs to look at other options, although I am humbled by the fact that this is a difficult issue. Both the 2030 Secretariat and the Konjunkturinstitutet and others have presented different variants. But it is clear that the Government's proposal places unreasonable responsibility on the first buyer. As far as Moderates are concerned, we believe that bonuses – the Malus system requires major changes and should in reality be replaced by a new instrument that is more cost-effective and leads to greater emission reductions. The Economic Institute has previously made the following criticism: The system is not cost-effective, it is expensive, it does not directly control emissions reductions and it has little impact on emissions by 2030. KI describes how the bonus is given to cars that cause CO2 emissions. The system is not primarily directed towards reduced emissions but towards increased fuel efficiency, which stimulates increased car driving, which in turn risks leading to increased emissions. KI refers, on the one hand, to previous research, and, on the other hand, to France, which has introduced a similar system which has resulted in an increase in driving distances to the extent that it has led to an increase in net CO2 emissions. According to CI, the system should preferably be abolished and, in the alternative, modified. The Moderates look at how the system could be redeployed or replaced by something else, but until then we make the biggest effort in modern times to expand the charging infrastructure throughout Sweden. We spend 1 billion annually, twice as much as the government, to build an infrastructure that will make people across the country dare to buy that electric car. This also applies to infrastructure for heavy goods vehicles. As I said, we spend EUR 1 billion annually on green fuel subsidies in order to get domestic production of biofuels going. But we also want to see regulatory changes that enable municipalities to have lower parking fees for environmental cars and special parking spaces for car pools, to name a few. Madam President, I would like The climate issue is real, and we need reductions in emissions here and now. The climate does not have time or money for symbolic policies that do not reduce emissions at the required pace. Therefore, I mean, the criticism from the National Audit Office, the Institute of Economics, is with several very serious ones. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation number 1.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-768	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the state measures to bring about more environmental cars. One could also call it: The Swedish National Audit Office writes about examples of fantastically bad climate policy. That is what this is. BONUS – the Malus system and the previous support schemes have been evaluated by a wide range of instances. Last year the Konjunkturinstitutet evaluated the bonus – the malus system, and together with the Swedish National Audit Office has come up with a lot of things. The conclusions are that the system has a lack of cost-effectiveness, is associated with recoil effects that stimulate increased car driving and slows the regeneration of the vehicle fleet, especially with regard to the largest, emission-intensive cars. It also notes that it is difficult to find valid motives for the existence of the system and that the analysis shows that bonuses – malus has little impact on emissions and that the system should be phased out. It also expresses its views on the impact of distribution policies. It finds that the scheme is likely to benefit high-income people in large cities who could have bought similar cars even without aid. We therefore have a penalty and support system for new cars that do not reduce emissions, entail socio-economic costs and benefit high-income people in large cities. It's a system that subsidises the stock exchange CEO's car but punishes the children's family that buys a new Dacia. Madam President, I would like This system is not unique to Sweden. Obviously these systems exist in various rich Western countries, and the evaluations show about the same thing, namely that it is very expensive and that the benefits are small. You can look at Norway, which today spends an enormous amount of money on its electric car policy, which has led, among other things, to people buying and owning more cars than before. The petrol - powered car has been kept and another car has been added. This, of course, counteracts the fact that electric cars cause lower emissions during their lifetime if you instead get more cars and drive longer distances. The task of the State in this case should rather be to invest in the infrastructure. It is about charging infrastructure and a powerful hydrogen strategy. There we are in Sweden far behind. Instead, we have focused on these bad solutions. Madam President, I would like Let me go into more specifically the report of the Swedish National Audit Office and the criticism that we have made in our accompanying motion. The criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office is extensive, and as usual when it comes to climate policy, the impact assessments are lacking or simply non-existent. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the costs of the system are high. They are unevenly distributed across the country. It has also failed to create long-term and predictable conditions, as can also be seen in the recently referred proposal that the bonus should be redeployed so that the first person to buy the car can become liable for repayment. It would create a great deal of unpredictability, and the proposal has caused a great deal of dissatisfaction among a lot of bodies. So we want to make the system even more unpredictable than it is. Madam President, I would like Overall impact assessments, including socio-economic consequences, have not been made or have been made scarcely and have not been submitted to the Riksdag. The Swedish National Audit Office writes that the possibility for the Riksdag to make well-informed decisions has been made more difficult because of this. Even the environmental consequences are barely illuminated or not illuminated at all in half of the substrates. The socio-economic costs have been high in terms of cost per unit of CO2 emissions reduction. Costs have not been evenly distributed. They have benefited motorists more than private motorists and residents of metropolitan municipalities than rural people. An additional and unforeseen cost to society has arisen as many cars have been sold to Norway in particular, with the cost of the grant being passed on to Swedish taxpayers while the relative climate benefit of the car is credited to another country. Long-term and predictable conditions for the purchase and possession of new cars have not been created. Recurrent regulatory changes, often at short notice, have created uncertainty. For many of the instruments, a clear development and decommissioning plan is lacking. The Government does not report any ambition to make impact assessments of how the support for environmental cars and the increased costs for other cars have hit in different income groups or in different parts of Sweden, although it is clear in the Swedish National Audit Office's report that those people are disadvantaged who do not have access to benefit cars and cannot afford to buy an electric car. The Government does not announce any concrete plans for how the system can be more cost-effective, long-term and predictable. We therefore believe that the government should show interest in the environmental effectiveness and impact of the measures, not least the distribution effects between regions and income groups, by ensuring that such analyses are carried out. In view of this, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 2.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-781	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that it is a good thing that the Parliament agrees with what the committee says that the government should urgently address the problem of the export of environmental cars. Today's system is expensive, creates a lack of legitimacy and counteracts the purpose of the system. We must therefore change today's system. Madam President, I would like We are all aware of the need to switch infrastructure to more environmentally friendly transport. We have also adopted a very high target when we are working to reduce CO2 emissions in the transport sector by 70% by 2030. Our neighbours have set the target of 50% by 2030, and the EU is talking about a total target of 55% reduction in CO2 by 2030. I do not intend today to assess whether our target is realistic given that it is only ten years left by 2030. However, we note that neither the EU nor our neighbours have chosen to have the same objectives. The government's climate policy has received repeated criticism from several heavy expert bodies. The latest in the line is the Swedish National Audit Office, which has carried out a review of government measures for environmental cars. Especially sharp criticism has been levelled at today's bonus – Malus system. In the past, the Institute of Economic Development has condemned the reform because it is expensive and does not directly steer towards reduced emissions. This criticism is repeated in the Swedish National Audit Office's report. There is now a review of the system, and that is a good thing. The Christian Democrats believe that today's inefficient system should be replaced by a new instrument that is more cost-effective and leads to greater emission reductions. Instead of the current system, the Christian Democrats have pointed out the need for a round-up, which reviews the whole of vehicle and fuel taxation in order to create the environmental benefit that we want to achieve with bonuses – the Malus system, while at the same time creating fairer taxation between city and country and better environmental management of traffic over the day. Madam President, I would like It is a problem that used electric cars, charging hybrids and gas cars are exported to Norway and Germany. This is because in Sweden, thanks to bonus – malus, it is advantageous to buy a new environmental car. As a result, the secondary market has developed worse in Sweden. Overall, the high level of exports of low-emission vehicles has led to an increase in the overall average emissions of passenger cars. Until there is a completely new model, the bonus part of the bonus-malus system should be changed so that it is gradually paid out over a period of several years, making it less interesting to export environmental cars. We need a new and better environmental policy in the area of vehicles. Today's system is being severely criticised, and I can testify myself that when you buy a new car, there is a discussion about taxation when choosing different cars. For my part, I changed my car some time ago. I was then recommended to buy a slightly older car, thus getting a lower tax and still a car that met my needs. It was never the idea that the bonus – the Malus system would result in the car park getting older and new environmental cars going for export. A review is therefore needed. Another issue that needs to be reviewed is the handling of light trucks. Today, smaller trucks are taxed unfairly, making it expensive for smaller companies that already have small margins. Furthermore, there is a need for a review of the management of motor homes, which currently receives an extremely high level of taxation, despite the fact that they do not account for a large proportion of CO2 emissions. Madam President, I would like I support all our reservations, but for the spirit of time, I only ask for reservation 1.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-790	Madam President, I would like Climate change is here and now. We must do everything we can to reverse society and achieve net zero emissions in 2045. One of the most important measures that we need to cope with in the near future is to switch the transport sector and reduce emissions by 70% by 2030. We need to change our behaviour and make transport more efficient in different ways, using bicycles and public transport wherever possible. We need to change the fuel and switch to more biofuels. To that we have the reduction obligation. And we need to facilitate technology development and bring more environmentally friendly cars into the market. The main motive for bonus – the Malus system is precisely that: to bring more environmentally friendly cars into the market. To achieve the climate goals, we need a combination of instruments, including instruments that support the introduction of new technologies. BONUS – the malus system complements the more generally acting fuel taxes and helps to reduce the transport sector's oil dependence and climate impact. In this case, the Swedish National Audit Office has examined several different reforms that extend back four terms of office. In the review we can read that it is only the bonus – the malus system, which was introduced in 2018, that has been analysed in a more systematic way. The Swedish National Audit Office highlights the importance of impact assessments, and I can only agree. And the government notes that the introduction of the bonus – the malus system was preceded by a public investigation, where the basis for impact assessments was produced. The Swedish National Audit Office also calls for a comparison of instruments and believes that the socio-economic costs of bonuses – malus are relatively high. The main purpose of bonus – malus and also its predecessors is to stimulate the introduction of new cars with low climate impact. Successively strengthened introduction support can, together with other instruments, contribute to increased sales and use of new cars with a low climate impact and can thus constitute important complementary instruments. These instruments should therefore be seen as a complement rather than an alternative to other instruments of climate policy, such as the CO2 tax. It is essential for climate policy to put a price on emissions, that is, the polluter pays principle. A price of carbon dioxide can compensate for the fact that the market does not bear the costs of greenhouse gas emissions in a way that prevents climate change. On the other hand, it does not compensate for other so-called market failures, which may actually need to be addressed with other instruments. The Government therefore shares the assessment in the Climate Policy Council's 2020 report: that the EU emissions trading system and the Swedish carbon tax are of fundamental importance but that they may need to be complemented by other targeted instruments. It would therefore have been welcome if the Swedish National Audit Office had conducted an in-depth analysis of how these instruments interact with and affect other instruments in the field. We can note that there are instruments to promote the introduction of, among other things, electric cars in several other EU countries. I do not have an analysis of the effectiveness of the Swedish support measures in comparison with these. The Swedish National Audit Office estimates that long-term and predictable conditions for new car purchases and ownership have not been created as recurrent regulatory changes have created uncertainty for the actors in the car market. I agree with the importance of what the Swedish National Audit Office says. Predictability is important, and we must do what we can to achieve it. However, the fact that the instruments have changed on many occasions is, in fact, partly a consequence of changes in governments and government bases. It is also important that these instruments relate to rapid technological developments and to changes in EU law in order to maintain their steering effect. In addition, several of the factors affecting the introduction of a new environmental technology are difficult to predict. It also shows the experience of other EU countries, which in some cases have found it difficult to dimension the instruments and have had to make substantial changes. The Swedish National Audit Office also points to the importance of reviewing the possibilities of reducing the costs of exporting environmental cars. The government agrees with this recommendation and is now working to bring about a change. It is extremely important that we reach such a solution. However, we must know – this has been heard in the debate before – that EU law contains provisions that Sweden must relate to. This, of course, has a bearing on how we can draw up such rules. Finally, the Swedish National Audit Office wants it to be clearly stated how long the bonus – the Malus system will last. Assessments of the future development of electric car sales differ between different authorities and organisations. Clearly, the rate of growth in recent years has been strong. Important explanations are the EU's emission requirements for new passenger cars and the increased supply of rechargeable cars. Another reason is that battery costs, which represent a large part of the extra cost of rechargeable vehicles, have fallen over time. BONUS – the Malus system is an effective instrument for increasing the proportion of environmentally friendly cars and making the fleet more efficient. As the shift of the transport sector towards fossil independence continues and the competitiveness of rechargeable vehicles increases, there is obviously reason to review the scope and nature of the instruments.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-806	Madam President, I would like It is a special delight to have the speaker's seat this year when you are rarely allowed to be in Parliament and even more rarely be in the Chamber to debate urgent policy. It is therefore a little extra fun to be able to stand here today to debate and discuss the review that the Swedish National Audit Office has carried out of the environmental policy in order to change Sweden's fleet of vehicles. As a centre party, I always think it is important to try to evaluate the policy that has been pursued, whether you have been involved in introducing it yourself or whether it is other political forces that have done so. I also believe that one important part of our ability to achieve our climate goals is that we can re-evaluate the policies we have pursued and constantly tighten them up. I believe that we, as Members of Parliament, should be grateful for the Swedish National Audit Office's contribution to our efforts to strengthen environmental and climate policy. In this particular case, the Swedish National Audit Office's review has identified a real problem in environmental policy. Environmental cars sold in Sweden will soon be sold. They are exported abroad, not infrequently to Norway but not only to Norway. The reason for this is that environmental cars are tax-favoured, thankfully, in sales in Sweden and that they have been able to make money by quickly exporting them and that there is purchasing power and a willingness to buy even in our neighbouring countries. It can be said to be a problem in the design of the bonus – the malus system that this has been possible. This is a problem that we in the Center Party think needs to be rectified as soon as possible. The Center Party was critical of the government's design of bonuses – the Malus system when it was introduced. We went to elections to introduce a green car bonus. It would have meant a major change in the bonus – the Malus system. We're trying to strengthen efficiency and sharpen the tool. We could well already see during the last parliamentary term that there would be some problems with the government's chosen model. An important part of the January agreement has therefore been to bring about a change in the bonus – the Malus system. This will happen, but there are some things that we in Parliament can particularly emphasise in a change in the bonus – the Malus system. This is precisely what we have proposed in a follow-up motion. The majority in the committee has chosen, among other things, to endorse the accompanying motion and announce that the government will urgently address the problem of exports of environmental cars sold in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I am pleased with this. Although I am fully convinced that it is the role of politics to strive to reduce emissions from the transport sector through the instruments we have at our disposal, it should, however, primarily apply to the Swedish transport sector when it is Swedish instruments we are talking about. No one's happier than I am if Norway can pre-green its fleet of vehicles. No one is happier than I am if Norway can reduce its climate emissions in this area as well as others. But this should not be done through Swedish instruments paid by Swedish citizens. Both Norway and Germany and our other neighbours should reasonably have the economic muscles to solve their climate challenges on their own. There are other areas in the world where our help is more useful than on the other side of Halden. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to stress that when the government resolves this problem, we in the Center Party believe that it is important for it to be done in a way that does not increase the administrative burden and does not significantly reduce incentives to buy an environmental car for use in Sweden. We have far too many examples of instruments in environmental policy designed by benevolent politicians to be intelligently defined and not abused, but which in practice become too complicated to have a full effect. We also know that we do not have time to wait if we are to reach our climate targets and that we have even less time to go backwards in the transition to a fossil-free vehicle fleet. In this context, 2045 is actually close in time, and 2030 is just about the corner when we look at the lifetime of a sold car in Sweden. Madam President, I would like It is important that we address these problems, not only from the point of view of the environment and climate, but also from the point of view of equality. The point must be that our instruments should mean that not only those who can afford to buy a new car should be able to travel as climate-friendly as possible. We all know that a major challenge is to ensure that more climate-friendly cars can also be used by people who do not have the highest incomes. To be honest, my hope would have been that we would have gone much further on that front by 2020. It is still far too difficult to find a car with relatively low emissions for a person who buys his first car or a person who knows that with its salary and income it will not be able to afford to buy a new car but may check the second hand market. I've been lucky enough to be able to drive an ethanol car myself. I would have been even happier if I could drive it on ethanol produced in Sweden at Lantmännen factory outside Norrköping. I would hope that more people had that opportunity, and that is exactly what I think environmental policy should contribute to. One effect of environmental cars being exported soon after the sale is that the secondary market did not develop in the direction I described. This will also be a problem when we build acceptance for climate change. Everyone must be able to feel that they are on the basis of the conditions they have in life. Madam President, I would like Speaking of Lantmännen's factory in Norrköping, I would like to draw the attention of my parliamentary colleagues to the fact that this is unfortunately another example where our environmental policy has not taken sufficient account of the effects of how our Swedish tax rules interact with those of our neighbouring countries. This is a problem that has already affected other aspects of environmental policy and change, preferably the conditions for the production of biofuels – biogas, ethanol and so on. It is mistakes that we cannot afford to make if we want a quick and effective transition where the whole of Swedish society is involved and serves. Madam President, I would like I often say that Sweden may be one of the countries in the world that has the best opportunity not only to change but also to benefit from it. But then we cannot have an environmental policy in which we punish Swedish fuels and solutions. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to this, because I think that is something we will need to be vigilant about when introducing new instruments or sharpening the instruments that already exist.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-824	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Swedish National Audit Office's review of state aid for environmental cars. I would like to emphasise that the review is made not only of the bonus – the Malus system, which is the last in the series of support schemes, but of the various support schemes that have existed over four terms of office, such as the environmental car premium, the super-environmental car premium and the reduced benefit value of environmental cars. These are measures introduced under previous moderate-led governments, which may be worth remembering now that many parties on the right have views on how the instruments are designed. We in the Left Party have also long had critical views on how instruments for environmental vehicles have been designed. We think that the audit carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office is excellent. Indeed, they have a point in the sense that high-income earners – and also to some extent living in larger cities – have been able to benefit more from environmental car premiums than low-income earners. I'll come back to that perspective. It is almost inevitable that such schemes will have a negative class effect. High income earners benefit by definition if we have grants that go to something that costs a minimum of half a million SEK and up. Now I know electric cars are getting cheaper than that, but I think you know what I mean. If you have subsidies for new cars, it is those who have money to buy a new car that can benefit most from such a subsidy. This is also why the bonus – malus was introduced in Sweden on 1 July 2018. We would have a better climate effect from the control system, but also a better distribution effect. The new thing with bonuses – malus, which we in the Left Party negotiated and developed, is that it is the motorist collective within itself that finances premiums for new environmental cars. These premiums, those subsidies, are financed by a higher tax, i.e. a malus, on high-emission cars. Instead of taking money from health care, school and care, that is, the entire tax collective is involved in financing, only the motorist collective finances the environmental premium. This is not an optimal system, but it is very much better in terms of distribution than the previous systems: the environmental car system, the super-environmental car system and so on. We might ask ourselves whether we should have subsidies at all for the purchase of new cars. If you are going to argue for it, I think the main reason is that it is driving progress forward. The number of cars sold has increased by over 100 percent this year. Up to now some 70 000 new clean electric cars or charging hybrids have been sold. That's good. As mentioned earlier by Magnus Ek, these cars will sooner or later – if they do not disappear to Norway – end up in the secondary market. Then people with smaller wallets can buy them. It is therefore driving progress forward, and it is very important. The transport sector accounts for one third of all our greenhouse gas emissions. We have a separate sectoral target for the transport sector. Emissions will decrease by 70% by 2030. I simply believe that we must use all the eggs that we have in the basket to reduce emissions from the transport sector. We must have many different instruments. I am not saying that premiums for environmental cars are the best, but I think that is necessary. We simply need to move forward. As far as passenger cars are concerned, we have 5 million passenger cars in Sweden. There's a lot of cars, and there's a lot of emissions. The goal should be that it is something that can be fully electrified in a short time. Then we need to be involved in driving that development forward. Of course, there is much more that needs to be done. We can start by tightening up the bonus – the malus system so that we get even more climate benefit from it and for example raise the malus for cars with large emissions. We should soon be able to agree to completely ban new car sales of diesel and petrol cars, i.e. fossil-powered cars. We are not going to put them on the market at all. Then we need to deal with the cars that are here and now. I mentioned that there are 5 million passenger cars. We need to help convert those cars afterwards. Not everyone can buy a new car. If we can convert cars so that they go on renewable fuels, perhaps on biogas, we reduce emissions from the car fleet that are here and now. We in the Left Party wish to introduce such support. We also need to strive for the entire transport system to be more efficient. We sometimes need to make fewer transports. We have seen that now during the pandemic. It's terrible in many respects. But it has led teleworking, although it may be boring in many respects if you do it all the time. Perhaps we can avoid every other trip in favour of a digital meeting instead. We also need to travel much more collectively after the pandemic. One of the most climate-smart things we can do is to avoid travelling with your own car and instead travel collectively. We need to bet on the go and the bike. We are also seeing during the pandemic that there is something going on. We have a much too undersized network of walking and cycling infrastructure. We need to help people share vehicles in the form of car pools and car sharing. Here the tax systems need to be changed. We need to make it easier for parking etc. There is a lot to do here. We in the Left Party think it is a very important initiative. But let us not completely reject the support system. Let's do it even better than it is. With bonus – malus it has become better. It's still important to remember. Madam President, I would like Finally, we fully agree with the export of environmental cars from Sweden that we must tackle this. There is now a proposal from the government that there should be a five-year ban on exports that should follow the first buyer. It doesn't feel very well thought out, I have to say. It becomes legal uncertainty and strange if you buy a car, and then five years later it is the one who bought it secondhand after you sell it. It's not fully thought out. This is something the government can do again and do better. What I miss in this is the possibility of fully legislating and saying that it is forbidden to export cars in the first few years. They can stay here in Sweden. I do not think that these opportunities have really been exhausted here. It refers to Europe as a reason why we must not do so. There will be a restriction on the internal market. However, I wonder whether that question has even been tried against Brussels. Here I think you can do more.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-841	Madam President, I would like We are debating today the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the state measures for environmental cars. I would like to start by saying that I support the committee's proposal for a decision. Sweden's objective is to achieve net zero emissions in 2045, and transport in particular has received an industry-specific target. By 2030, CO2 emissions will have decreased by 70% compared to 2010. It's a tough target. If we are to succeed in this in such a short time, we need a great many different measures. The most important measure is the electrification of road transport and its addition to fossil-free fuels in order to reduce emissions from the existing fleet. Here I would also like to highlight the importance of extending the charging infrastructure. It is important not least to get more charging poles at multi-detached buildings. You must be able to charge at home if you are to dare to take the step of buying a rechargeable car. Liberals have the basic principle that those who generate emissions should pay, and we want to avoid subsidies. However, we believe that in the event of technological leaps, and with our tough timetable up to 2030, it may be justifiable for a short transitional period to grant certain subsidies to speed up the transition. These are Liberal entrances when we assess instruments for technology shifts. How can we get the fastest possible transition to electrification while meeting people's needs for road transport in everyday life and benefit the cost of the technology shift in a good way? We believe in the bonus – the Malus system and its ability to get car buyers to choose rechargeable cars and to speed up the technology shift. It is important that the charging hybrids are included in the bonus system. They are for many people an intermediate step to the electric car and constitute a majority of the sold rechargeable cars today. Bonus – the Malus system is self-financing. The bonus should, in our opinion, end when rechargeable and fossil-powered cars are roughly comparable. Then market forces will manage the further transition. We also want to see a continued environmental reduction in the benefit value of company cars. It is for the simple reason that the majority of the rechargeable cars sold today are company cars. By keeping that sale up, we create a second-hand market of cars at price levels where many more residents can afford to buy a rechargeable car. Through this system, companies also take a large part of the depreciation that takes place during the first three years. Madam President, I would like These are the starting points of the Liberals for the current systems to speed up the transition to rechargeable cars. At the same time, we welcome the Swedish National Audit Office's evaluation of the measures to get more environmental cars. The Swedish National Audit Office deals with cost analysis of proposals and follow-up of measures. We in the Liberals believe that they are important to ensure that the measures taken deliver the desired results. However, the most important point of view for the Liberals concerns the export of environmental cars. Swedish taxpayers' money will be used to achieve our own high-level goals and at the same time create a fleet of rechargeable cars in Sweden that among other things makes the new technology available to more people through a second-hand market. A system to curb exports is in preparation and will enter into force at the turn of the year, which meets the committee's desire to get a system in place quickly. In order to promote new car purchases, the system should be designed in such a way that the requirements are imposed on the exporting car owner and not on the first owner. The audit report mentions that the instruments favour motorists and that the distributional effects between urban and rural areas differ. Many of the new, more expensive cars are sold in cities, mainly to legal persons but also to private individuals. The report suggests that urban residents receive a greater share of the state's incentives. We agree with that analysis. The problem with the reasoning, however, is that if we look at the purpose of the system, to speed up electrification, it is important to note that car buyers with regular income cannot afford to buy an electric car today. It's too expensive. Instead, I would like to reverse the distributional perspective. We are in a technology shift where cars and also buses, trucks and work machines will be electrified. It's expensive to change. How do we allocate those costs? In all technological shifts, the first copies will always be considerably more expensive before the new technology has come through and we have mass production. This makes passenger cars, in this case, far too expensive at first to allow ordinary people to afford to buy them. What is happening now is that companies in particular are responsible for new car purchases and paying for the greatest depreciation. When these cars then enter the second-hand market after about three years, the price of the cars has fallen so that more can afford to buy them. This means that companies pay a considerably larger share than the state to make the new technology quickly available to ordinary people. We see this as part of the distributional effect of the system, and that is one of the reasons why we support it. Finally, the Liberals agree with the Swedish National Audit Office's analysis that the lack of long-termism has created uncertainty for consumers and large fluctuations in sales curves. In order to create predictable rules for car buyers and companies and to obtain rapid electrification, the instrument rules should apply over a multi-annual period. The Liberals will work for that.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-856	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by stating what we now all know, namely what a thunder-succee bonus– malus has been. I have been amused to follow the new car registration in Sweden in recent years, and something radical has happened since the bonus – Malus entered into force. The figures this year, after the last tightening up we carried out, mean an increase of 113% in the number of rechargeable vehicles. Almost a third of new car sales are climate bonus cars. The previous year the figure was 11 per cent, and it was a very strong increase compared to the previous years. So there is a huge increase in climate bonus cars we are seeing in our country right now. It depends on bonus – malus. You can also go further back in time and compare with the time when the right-wing climate policy was in place. Then we had some per mille or up to 1 or 2 percent that were environmental cars– but according to the old definition, a very bad definition. So it is only possible to say that bonus – malus is a thunder success in achieving the objective that exists, namely to stimulate more sustainable cars. I shall then turn to the report. Let me start by talking about what it's wrong about. Firstly, it does not take into account the budgetary model. It correctly condemns the previous climate policy of the right when it comes to only subsidising large diesel cars that rich people buy. Bonus – malus is based on whip and carrot. We take in money from those who buy dirty cars and put them as a bonus. So it is not a pure subsidy, it is a whip and carrot. It is right about preferential taxation. This has been a swamp that all previous governments have ignored for 20 years. Let's clean it up. It is already the government that is about to do – quite correctly. I'm sorry, I took it in the wrong order. Now I was supposed to talk about what was wrong. But there it is right. We can get back to that. Secondly, when it comes to things that are wrong, it misses the purely transformative purpose. Of course, if you look at the effectiveness of an instrument, the CO2 tax is superior. We all know that. However, the CO2 tax does not take into account the impact of distribution policies and so on. This aims to make it easier for us to reach the climate target in ten years' time. It will be much easier to reach the climate target in ten years' time if we have more rechargeable vehicles on our roads. It will be much harder and much more expensive to reach the climate target in ten years' time if we continue to sell thirsty fossil cars. It'll be a blow that society will have to take later. The transformative purpose is not included in this report. The report makes an attempt to talk about distribution policy effects but completely misses the point. Today, what you could call ordinary people is very rarely bought new cars. Several speakers have mentioned this in the past. Most new cars are bought as business cars by companies and by people who have a lot of money in their wallets. This is where the interesting things come in with regard to distribution policy effects. The consequence, if we had not had bonuses – malus, is that in three years' time we have a secondary market that means that ordinary people are forced to buy thirsty cars that release more and therefore will have a much higher cost to get to their job. We know that oil will be more expensive globally. We know that biofuels will cost more in the future. Are we going to put that cost on people who don't have much money in their wallets? I think it's unsolidaric. It is quite unreasonable policy to imagine that we should have a secondary market that so clearly means that ordinary people will have to take the big blow for the transition. Let that blow be taken by those who buy new cars! Now to those parts where the report has points and is right. As far as exports are concerned, we all agree in here: we must stop exports. The government's on it. I share the view that the proposal that is now being referred is not up to date, but we will remedy that. As I said, it is right about the benefit system. This swamp has been ignored for 20 years. Let's clean it up. Now we make it so that you pay as much tax as you do if you charge your salary in cash. Above all, it is right to condemn completely much of the right-wing climate policy. The report shows this in black and white: on point after point, the right has a very ineffective climate policy. First of all, it is noted that the previous aid schemes for environmental cars are very ineffective. Furthermore, if we add the fact that you did not have a whip before, they become even more inefficient. The report also criticises bonuses – malus precisely because it compares with climate change and with carbon tax. These are two parts that the right has surgically chosen to focus on destroying. Everyone knows that CO2 tax is the most effective means of reducing emissions. Yet that is exactly what the right-wing parties are opposed to. I have tried to figure out what the Moderates and Christian Democrats have in their budget about this. It is a little unclear; it is barely in the budgets. I believe that what is being turned against, pending a so-called new system that we have not heard anything about in almost a year, is the tightening up of the system that we are now doing. In practice, this means accepting over-subsidisation of environmental cars. Or rather, this means accepting a deficit in the funding of the bonus. That is what the current bonus – the Malus system means without the tightening up that we carry out. This means that we want to use tax funds to subsidise the car purchases of rich people. What we are doing is taking money from the tax we have, the malus, to subsidise sustainable car purchases. Instead, the right wants to use tax funds to subsidise car purchases. It would be interesting to see what the public would say if one understood what the consequences would be for the secondary market. The bottom line of scrapping bonuses – the Malus system and not pushing for more sustainable cars here and now is that people who depend on their car – they may live in sparsely populated areas and have a long way to work – will have a much higher cost of getting to work in the future. That is the consequence of pushing up the bonus – the malus system and simply not supporting it. In addition, the right wing chooses to continue with the strange subsidies within the benefit tax system despite the fact that it says that it takes into account what the Swedish National Audit Office says in this report. The Swedish National Audit Office specifically says that it is a very dysfunctional policy to work with the benefit tax system in the way we have done, but that is what the Moderates and other parties want to continue with. I have gone over the speaking time, but I would just like to say three short things about the fact that this is, of course, a good system, but it needs to be improved. We need to raise the Malus part further in the future – it will cost more to buy a very thirsty car. We need to lower the threshold for the bonus part, because we need to get away from the subsidization of hybrid cars that are not sustainable. Only this week we have read that Volvo, among other things, cheats with its emissions. That is unacceptable. We're not going to subsidise thirsty hybrid cars that don't measure up. We have to stop the plague of heavier cars. It has become a trend in new car sales that you constantly want heavier cars. I understand and respect that heavier cars have a function in some parts of our country. But now they are bought mainly by people who live in Stockholm's rich garland municipalities. It doesn't make any sense. It is not reasonable for someone who lives on Lidingö to take a heavy suv into town every day. We do not want that kind of policy, but we want them to pay for themselves. I support the committee's proposal.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-881	Madam President, I would like I agree with Lorentz Tovatt that the bonus – the malus system is seven trips better than the previous environmental bonus and super-environmental bonus schemes that have existed, mainly because it becomes the motorist collective that finances the introduction of environmental cars. But we can make the system better, and I hope we will. Lorentz Tovatt says that the CO2 tax is the best means of control and speaks hotly for other taxes and so on. Absolutely, it is an effective instrument, but what I missed here, and in fact often lacks when discussing climate issues with environmental partners, is that you can make use of something that is even more effective. Can you guess what it is, Lorentz Tovatt? Well, that's the regulatory power, that's what we're doing in here. We make laws. We can ban what destroys, pollutes and endangers our future. We can prohibit, for example, the establishment of new release activities with reference to our climate targets. I will come back to just that in the next debate that we are going to have here. We could have a lex Preem. We don't today, but we should have. We could ban coal in cogeneration plants. Actually, we haven't, but I think we should have. And we could ban new car sales of fossil-powered cars. I think that this is a better way to regulate the market than to ban the fuel, even though the fuel itself must also be removed. But if we start by banning sales, we put the responsibility on the industry that produces these cars. We can say, we don't want you to bring them out. In the UK, they say they should have a 2030 ban. Here in Sweden I know that we are investigating the matter, but how is it actually going with it? And when does the Green Party want us to ban new car sales of fossil cars?
i-SxfgYoGtjYUxtAmyU5JwfL	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! We have a point on this in the January agreement. It is about banning petrol and diesel cars in new car sales in 2030. I think that is a reasonable way to go. But my party has had a greater focus on banning fossil fuels. Even if we were to quickly get rid of the fossil cars in new car sales, we already have a lot of fossil cars rolling on our streets. It's an even bigger problem, to be honest. What we are seeing right now in new car sales is a very fast electrification. My picture is that I believe that we will not even have to ban certain types of car models in 2030. I believe that in principle everything will have been electrified by 2030. However, we will have 4 1⁄2 or 5 million cars already rolling on our streets. That is why it is even more important, from our perspective, that we focus on fossil fuels. I would say that both are important, quite simply.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-888	Madam President, I would like Then I would like to ask Mr Lorentz if he does not think it is a bit backwards precisely because Mr Tovatt spoke in his speech about the importance of driving forward technology development and also about the importance of not rolling over responsibility on the individual, often with a small wallet. I agree that sooner or later there will have to be a ban on refuelling petrol and diesel, but if we first allow people to buy these cars and the Green Party then comes the following year and bans what they are going to refuel them with, I think people would feel a little fooled, seriously speaking. And I think they'd experience putting all the burden on them. After all, we have the opportunity to actually drive development and regulate industry. That's where I think we should start. If, as we in the Left Party say, we ban new car sales of petrol and diesel cars from 2025, the industry knows what applies, and then consumers also know what applies. And then we get a ban on fuels later on, but then at least we take it in the right order. Don't the Green Party think we should take it in the right order?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-891	Madam President, I would like It's a little more complicated than that, I'd say. The first thing to say is that there is no country today that actually has this kind of ban going on. It is said that it has a will to do so, but most of the countries that have said so have not been able to find a system to do so. Denmark is the latest example of a country that has wanted to ban certain types of car models, and this has simply been rejected by the European Union. You may want to leave the European Union for this reason, but now we are in the European Union. You can find out what Jens Holm wants, i.e. control which cars come onto the market, and then you can get rid of the fossil. You don't necessarily need a ban on that, and that was a bit of my point. Bonus – the malus system has now given such a great effect, combined with technology development, price falls in electrification and so on, that I think this will go quite well of itself in new car sales. That is precisely why I say that it is even more important to focus on fossil fuels. That's where we have a big nut to crack. After all, it is possible to drive your car on other than fossil fuels even if you have an internal combustion engine. Then there are of course challenges with that too, but it is possible to get both a very fast electrification of the transports until 2030 and at the same time focus on completely phasing out the fossil fuels in existing cars.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-894	Madam President, I would like In fact, I asked for the floor because I was a little surprised by Mr Lorentz's statement that what he called the right – and there I felt perhaps apostrophated – does not have any proposals of my own in relation to bonuses– malus. If we Christian Democrats are part of the united right – it is at least me, and I think almost everyone else is to the left of me – at least for a long time we have been trying to highlight the idea of a new fuel and vehicle taxation. We also had a seminar on Gotland last week in Almedalen because there was no one this year. In our party's reasoning, the dilemma of bonus – malus is that it is a temporary system. It needs to be adjusted with the points we are making today. I have great respect for the fact that it actually means more purchases. I'm sitting on my own and wondering if I'm gonna get an electric car and so on. We must create the conditions for the secondary market. But we also see the Norwegian example. When many buy an electrified car, the tax base for road transport suddenly disappears. An electrified car takes no less traffic space than a diesel, petrol or hydrogen car. We have therefore said that we must be honest with the citizens. We want a certain amount of money in order to have a functioning infrastructure. So when we talk about a new vehicle and fuel taxation, we want to solve the problem of long-term financing, among other things. But if it is digital, if it is partly based on kilometres, it is possible to work even with times. It is possible to work with which vehicle it is, what fuel it is and what weight it is and build the tax system digitally so that the payment applies to when it is used. This could lead, for example, to electrified trucks driving out groceries and other items in the evening rather than in the daytime, and reduce pressure in cities. So we have a proposal.
i-8ZCRfSJHGprGDnCFux7MXE	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson! That sounds really exciting. I'm no stranger to looking at a distance-based vehicle tax in the future. However, it presents a number of challenges. Today we have a direction towards more energy efficient vehicles, CO2 – low-cost vehicles. That is what we have in today's existing fuel taxes. Then we have bonus – malus that complements it for the vehicle model. I'm afraid you'd throw all that out and go over to just a distance-based treasure. That is how I have interpreted the proposal in the past. It would be interesting to hear if Magnus Jacobsson has other thoughts about having other parameters in that tax too. It is absolutely welcome. Whatever the case, it is a huge change in the tax system that Magnus Jacobsson is talking about. I'm not necessarily against it. But I don't think it's here right now. We have to make the best of the situation here and now, and we know that bonus – malus is very effective in stimulating the right type of car purchase. If the tax base worries Magnus Jacobsson, he should talk to his economic-political spokesperson and make him realize that it is not very successful to be against the indexation of the CO2 tax. We know that the CO2 tax has led to more efficient engines. It costs less today to drive a mile than it did 20 years ago. We get less tax per mile. This means that it must be increased, simply to keep up with developments. The Green Party is alone in the Riksdag to push for higher carbon tax. It would be welcome if the Christian Democrats paid attention to the Green Party's line on this issue.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-902	Madam President, I would like If you look at what we have written in our movements in the last two years, you can see that we have been very careful to formulate that it is about more parameters. We also agree with the analysis that this is a completely new way of thinking. It has also led us to say that it should first be introduced on the truck side, especially from the perspective of integrity. It's not obvious that I want to tell you where I am all the time because I'm in a car. On the other hand, most people tend to walk around with one or two mobile phones, one computer and much more. So one can think about how big the problem of integrity really is. Today, however, trucks are often linked to the company. You already have that reality. With such a system, we would also be able to access some of the lorries that drive in the country in a less accurate way. We've done what we can as a party. We have come as far as we can in the reasoning. We've written as much as we can. But we have to admit that we are not going much further as a party. We do not have those investigative resources. We have carried out seminars with researchers who have looked at it. If, after the next election, we get the privilege of being in a government, we think it is a typical issue that we should look at. Meanwhile, we have congestion taxes, and in the meantime we have bonuses – malus. But it needs to be improved. One would need to take a new holistic approach. That is what I reacted to, Madam President. We're clear about our profile. I am pleased to hear that you want to electrify. It is gratifying that we want biofuels. But it is a little troubling that you never ever admit that there is a shortage. The Swedish Transport Agency has just released its target and points out that the biomass we have will not be enough and that there will be problems with electrification. If LKAB is now to make hydrogen, it will require a great deal of energy that we do not have today. I'd love to see electrification, but we'll probably have to keep one or two nuclear power plants.
i-WN8vXVTj4raau331VChdJU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson, for the line shift! There are solutions to exactly what Magnus Jacobsson finished his line with. It is efficiency improvements and a low-carbon economy. Today we have talked specifically about the subsidies for environmental cars. It is, to be perfectly honest, a rather small part of the Green Party's vision of a sustainable society. It's important. The most important thing, however, is that we switch from car to pedestrian, bicycle and public transport where possible. It's in the metropolitan areas and in urban areas. It's really important. It could make an incredibly positive difference if we could thus direct people's choices to make them more sustainable. It would be great fun if Magnus Jacobsson also took himself to that line. Now I have forgotten what Magnus Jacobsson said before that in his line. But I can sum up with the fact that it's fun if we can be united in having a low-cost economy.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-911	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Lorentz, for your speech. When I listen to Lorentz Tovatt, I often think that it must be nice to be so sure of the excellence of my own politics. Therefore, it would be a little interesting to drill on in some of these parts. I think, like Lorentz Tovatt, that the development we have seen in the new car market is fantastic. It's incredible. Then you can always discuss what depends on previous environmental car premiums or current bonus-malus. Or is it because the EU has clearly signalled tougher requirements for vehicle manufacturers in terms of emissions, or is it that the charging infrastructure has improved despite its shortcomings? Is it simply that electric cars have also become cheaper? It is possible that these are co-operative factors. But we can be glad that developments are moving in the right direction. Some parts worry me. Lorentz Tovatt talked a lot about what the right wing wants. Perhaps I can say that a few things that concern me about what the left wants, if I should call you that. It is about charging infrastructure, among other things. I think it is SEK 50 million that the government is investing in expanding the charging infrastructure for passenger cars and 500 million for heavy traffic. The Moderates invest twice as much in our budget to expand the charging infrastructure. It is an absolutely crucial state commitment, at least when we are going through a technological shift, to ensure that there is an infrastructure so that people can charge their cars. I am concerned about this government's policy on energy production. I know I'm going to hear answers about renewables increasing and everything. That's great. But I see incredible problems when the energy demand will increase by about 60% to 2045 and the government is pursuing a policy that shuts down fossil-free energy production. I also see challenges with sustainable biofuel production when the Green Party rather wants to protect more forest from growing, so that we cannot get the sustainable biofuels that we need.
i-8R2CnrTbFUhvzHLRmMEU8e	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for the questions! First, let me say that the increase in rechargeable vehicles clearly correlates with the sharpening we have made of bonuses – malus. The first leap was taken when we introduced it. The other shot was taken when we sharpened it. So there is a clear causality there. Enough for other things to affect, but it is obvious that bonus – malus also affects. Let us take this issue of spending on electrification in the budgets. There seems to be some confusion about that. I was already thinking about it when Jessica Rosencrantz gave her speech. She claimed that the Moderates bet twice as much as the government. That is not the case. Here's the thing: We're spending 500 million on electrification of heavy traffic. The 50 million that Jessica Rosencrantz refers to – I believe that we have increased it – concerns the load-home support. It is specifically addressed to individual households. In addition to this, we spend nearly SEK 2 billion on the Climate Tree. Most of this money goes to charging infrastructure and biogas. The government's budget thus trumps the Moderates' every day of the week when it comes to investments in electrification. As for the need for electricity for all this, Jessica Rosencrantz makes a correct observation. Electricity is and will be a scarce commodity in the future. Last year we exported four Ringhal reactors, so we have a huge surplus in terms of the total amount of electricity. We will continue like this. We are expanding wind power in a unique global and historical way. Power production has almost never been built as quickly as is being done in Sweden right now. In addition to that, sea wind will also contribute a great deal.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-920	Madam President, I would like We are not in a statistical seminar and do not need to discuss whether it is a matter of correlation or causality in new car sales and bonuses – malus. At least let us rejoice that it is increasing. Then we can see that different instruments certainly have an impact on this. I know that the government is making a massive investment in climate change. In many different parts, however, expert authorities have also condemned the Climate Scene, and the Swedish National Audit Office as well. For example, they say that this is not an effective part of the policy mix to achieve the 2030 target. What I'm talking about is the public charging infrastructure. I think that, above all, that should be a public commitment. It's great that you get charging possibilities even at home. But where the state really needs to go in and make sure that charging places are located, for example, along the roads so that people dare to get to work, school or leisure activities. Electricity will be scarce. That's what Lorentz Tovatt said. You can see that from different perspectives. This may not have to be the case if we do not close down fully functioning nuclear power plants. I think it's fantastic if we get more renewable such as continued hydropower and more solar and wind power. But in these debates where you in the Green Party set climate targets so high, which is a good thing, it surprises me time and again that you are willing to exclude what is currently 40% of Sweden's energy production and that we would need to succeed in the transition. You'd rather say we could have some power shortage. It is true that we are exporting electricity right now, but most point out that this will not be the case in the future. If you live in southern Sweden you do not feel that there is an abundance of electricity. On the contrary, I am facing many people at the moment who are unfortunately questioning the electrification of the fleet of vehicles. They say that electricity is not enough for even our industries, companies and homes. This is a threat to the transition, I mean. I think we should turn all the stones around and use all the fossil-free power.
i-VxrhxduSdyBF2vUwDJQFa	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for the line! Let me start with nuclear power. What Jessica Rosencrantz says about us not exporting in the future is wrong. On the contrary, the forecast that the Swedish grid produces every year suggests that Sweden will increase exports. This correlates very clearly with the amount of new wind power entering the system. So we have a lot of electricity. Once again we have a lot to do here in the country; we will electrify. Maybe we need to expand even more. That's what I'm assuming. For example, we aim for 100 terawatt hours of wine. But right now we do not have a shortage situation for electricity in Sweden. I also need to be able to reconnect with some of the things I said in my speech. First of all, Jessica Rosencrantz is very committed to what the expert authorities say. I am pleased, because we are going to listen to those who can do this, such as expert authorities, researchers and the like. But surgically, her party chooses to remove the most effective way to reduce emissions, namely the carbon tax. This is the single most effective way to reduce CO2 emissions in Sweden. This they choose to remove.
i-698079830bfdd8e6-0	We're not taking it away. ) They're reducing it by $7 billion. It's a huge reduction that would have a very negative climate effect. The Moderates choose to listen selectively to experts. Then there is one question. Why do the Moderates want to make it more expensive for future motorists to drive? This is the consequence of not stimulating environmental cars. If the secondary market consists of more fossil cars, ordinary people who live in rural areas and who need their car – we can agree that they need a car to transport – will make it more expensive to get to work with moderate politics. This is the consequence of the policy pursued by the Moderates.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-931	Madam President, I would like We are now debating changes made to a new framework for emissions trading when the EU enters the fourth trading period on 1 January next year. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation on the matter. We are behind the EU emissions trading system. We are also behind the tightening up of the system that the Swedish Government has been working for. That's great. However, we want the system to be tightened up even more so that we can reduce emissions even further. For example, we want a steeper reduction curve so that emissions are reduced more and we will have zero emissions in the EU by 2040. We also want the auctioning of allowances to be the main rule. Allowances are therefore not to be distributed free of charge. We want a minimum price, a floor price, for allowances so that they cannot be cheap. We also think that the so-called market stability reserve, which is now being established, is a good one. It will allow excess allowances to be scrapped. There, more excess allowances should be collected and scrapped. What we are raising in our reservation and our motion in the report is that the government is making some changes to the system known as Corsia, which is a system for aviation emissions. Emissions are not being reduced within the Corsia framework, but are just about compensating for the aviation sector's emissions. Sweden has joined the Corsia system. We do not think that the system really reduces emissions. We would have liked Sweden to have put the focus on reducing the aviation sector's emissions in real terms. At international level, it is not least about the tax exemptions that the aviation industry currently has when it is tanking fuel. Perhaps the most important thing in our motion on the matter is unfortunately we do not have a request for it. This is due to purely formalist reasons on which the Parliament's Central Office is based, but we will come back to this. Of course, everything we want is in our motion. It is about us wanting a lex Preem in Swedish legislation. What, then, is this? Well, if a new business or industry is to be established in Sweden, a test is carried out based on the environmental code. The portal section of the Environmental Code, Section 1, addresses important purposes such as human health, the environment, biodiversity, valuable nature and cultural environment, resource management and re-use. These are very important purposes, but one important purpose is missing from the list, namely the climate targets. Our climate targets are not included in the Environmental Code's permit assessment. We want legislation in which all new activities are also tested on the basis of our climate targets. If you see that it is not just about local emissions or that you affect human health or biodiversity locally, something that you can make assessments from outside today, but also that our Swedish climate targets are threatened, we should have the opportunity to say no for that reason and thus not give it a permit. That is what the whole question of Preemraff was about. Now it went so far that the government would have to judge by a government decision, and it was good that Preem finally withdrew its application. However, we would have liked to have an environmental code which, at an earlier stage, goes in and makes that assessment so that it does not go all the way up to the government table. We think that our proposal fits very well with the government's stated ambition that all relevant legislation should be reviewed based on our climate targets. It has been stated by the government, so we are a little surprised that this kind of legislation has not been put forward with a tightening up of the environmental code. This is also a proposal that has been raised by both the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in their in-depth evaluation of our environmental objectives and the Climate Policy Council, which has raised the importance of using the environmental code and sharpening it so that all new operations are tested on the basis of our climate goals. In this connection, I would like to call once again for approval of the Left Party's reservation.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-942	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the adoption by Parliament of the legislative proposal for a new framework for emissions trading. The purpose of the new Act and the legislative amendments is for us to implement the necessary changes to Swedish law for the fourth trading period of the EU ETS, which starts on 1 January 2021, i.e. shortly. A review of the regulatory framework should then be carried out at the level of the Regulation. This Emissions Trading Directive has been amended on several occasions. For the fourth trading period, a number of changes have taken place. Among other things, we will increase the rate of annual emission allowance reductions, strengthen the market stabilisation reserve, enable the Innovation Fund to support investments in renewable energy technologies and review the ETS in view of the long-term objectives of the Paris Agreement. The last one is very important. EU environmental legislation is a moving and changing legal area under constant development. This means that Swedish environmental legislation often needs to be amended, and the emissions trading framework is no exception. In order to facilitate changes to the Swedish regulatory framework and also meet public expectations and demands for a flexible regulatory framework, the regulations that do not have to be enacted by law should be communicated by the government or the authority that the government decides. This is also in line with the structure of the environmental code. Therefore, the regulatory framework will now largely be placed at the level of the regulation. The scope of the new law will thus be considerably smaller than it is today. In its Communication on the European Green Paper, the Commission announced that it would review and, if necessary, propose changes to relevant climate-related policy instruments by June 2021 to achieve further reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. Such a review includes the emissions trading scheme. In the Committee on Environment and Agriculture's review report on the Commission's Green Paper, we just welcomed such a review. Sweden will have a leading role in climate action within the EU and in international contexts. Sweden was the driving force in the 2017 reform of the emissions trading system. The reform has led to a sharp increase in the price of allowances, which in turn has led to significant reductions in emissions in the EU. As I said, the EU ETS is regularly reviewed. Article 30 of the amending Directive provides that the Directive is to be reviewed in the light of international developments and international efforts to achieve the long-term objectives of the Paris Agreement. It is the Commission as the proposer that will present proposals for a new revision of the Emissions Trading Directive. It will be extremely important to ensure in the future work that the emissions trading system is strengthened, partly in order to achieve the strengthened 2030 target, and partly in order to achieve climate neutrality in 2050.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-951	Madam President, I would like I think I and Marlene Burwick are right to agree that we want to tighten up the EU ETS. Then, in the Left Party, we want to go quite much further than the Social Democrats. For example, we have a target of zero emissions in the EU by 2040. However, it is a good thing that we can work together to tighten up that system. What I would like to ask Mrs Burwick is the Left Party proposal for a lex Preem. A lex Preem would mean that we adjust the environmental code so that, for example, the portal clause mentions the Swedish environmental objectives and that new operations will be tested based on how it affects the Swedish climate targets. If this new activity threatens our climate targets, it should be possible to weaken and not authorise such a new activity. What do the Social Democrats think of such a proposal?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-954	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! The government is reviewing the environmental code right now, and one of the reasons why it does is precisely how the climate issue should be taken into account in the handling. I think Jens Holm's question is interesting, but it is a rather complicated question. If you theoretically have an activity that emits carbon dioxide locally but produces goods or fuels that lead to a significant reduction in emissions in Sweden, how should you evaluate this type of effort? Of course, I think it is interesting to see how we can sharpen the legislation in order to better achieve the climate objectives. But I think we should be careful when we propose such changes, because it is not always as simple as you think when you put forward such proposals.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-957	Madam President, I would like It is good that such an investigation is being carried out, but the climate cannot wait. It is something that is often repeated quite often. It is simply a matter of great urgency to reduce our emissions quickly. It finally landed well, as we see in the Left Party, with Preemraff withdrawing its application, but there was no way to say no to their activities with reference to our climate targets. Preemraff had become Sweden's largest emitter. We in the Left Party think it is important to get the climate targets into the environmental code. What Mr Burwick is talking about is exactly the kind of balance that has to be struck in such a licensing process. Any emissions must be weighed against the positive effect that may be achieved at the other end. Such a balance must be made on the basis of more aspects than local emissions, the cultural environment, resource management, re-use and human health, that is, what is in the portal clause today in the environmental code. We in the Left Party are looking forward to the investigation. If I understand correctly, it will come this summer or next summer. Maybe Burwick can tell you.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-961	Madam President, I would like In fact, I am unsure of the exact end date, but as the climate cannot wait, I am grateful that the government is currently preparing that kind of revision of the legislation.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-962	Madam President, I would like I understand that it is easy to get tired when one is one of the valiant officials or Members who endure this late and dark November evening. But hold on a little longer, because I hope I will deliver an urgent and hopefully also enjoyable speech. I will admit, Madam President, that I will take this opportunity to relate a great deal to the EU emissions trading scheme and how we in the Center Party believe it can be improved. There is a relatively great deal of agreement in committee on what should be done with the matter now on the table. For my part, we cannot talk enough about the EU emissions trading scheme. This is a central part of the EU's policy to combat climate change, and it is our most important tool within the Union to reduce greenhouse gas emissions cost-effectively. Although I admit that as a youth federation I dreamed of even more effective tools, global carbon taxes and the like, we will have to realise that this will continue to be the most effective tool we have available in the Union. It is the world's first major carbon market, and it is still the largest carbon market in the world. In order to achieve a climate-neutral EU in 2050 and the intermediate target of a net reduction of at least 55% of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, although the Center Party wants 65% of emissions reductions – I promise it will be less numerically heavy later; I have promised that this will be an enjoyable speech – the Commission proposes to revise and possibly extend the EU emissions trading scheme. Of course, we think that is good on the part of the Center Party. While a new trading period is about to start, work is under way to revise the EU ETS, i.e. the emissions trading system – I will say ETS in the future, we are saving some time – to make the ambitions of the trading system compatible with the EU's commitment in the Paris Agreement and with the strengthened climate targets introduced in the context of the Green Deal. We in the Center Party see the forthcoming revision as absolutely necessary. We in the European Parliament have worked hard to increase the rate of emission reduction, but we also believe that further tightening is needed if we are to manage to reflect the commitments made by the European Union in the Paris Agreement. Among other things, we want to push forward to improve the price signal so that it can drive investments in low-emission technology. This is important not least for Swedish companies, which are often the best in the class in their respective industries. We saw in the negotiations last time how Swedish companies pushed for the system to be as ambitious as possible. If there is a level playing field in the industries and across the EU, Swedish companies will also benefit. It is particularly important, Madam President, that we politicians hook arms with the companies that want to take precedence. For Sweden, this type of tightening up is a way to strengthen competitiveness. Sometimes when we talk about climate policy, it sounds like it would only be about making business more difficult and more expensive. Actually, that's not true. This can also be a way to reward those companies that are the best at reducing their emissions and producing in a sustainable way. Not least, this ultimately creates Swedish jobs. If there is something we like in the Chamber, besides coffee, it is probably just more Swedes who get a job to go to. We also want to tighten the ceiling on the number of allowances distributed each year and gradually reduce the surplus of allowances. There's been a problem back in time, but it's still there. The ETS is not as effective as it could be because there is a surplus. Madam President, I would like It does not come as a surprise that I am relatively classically liberal. If it is something we classic liberals like, it is market mechanisms. Nor can we expect the market mechanisms to work in the way we want and to push for reductions in emissions. There is work here to continue to drive those in the Union who do not want to go more ambitiously forward in order to meet Europe's climate goals. We also want to introduce a price floor to create greater predictability for industry, so that we know what the minimum price is. Otherwise, the risk is that Swedish companies that expect the price mechanism to work are planning for it to be prepared and then realize that they have done the work unnecessarily and may not make investments as they would otherwise have done. Instead, it is companies with lower ambitions that do not want or manage to reduce their emissions that make the most efficient investments from a purely market perspective. Then the ETS does not work as effectively as it would have to. In order for more people to pay for their climate impact, the Centre Party will be the driving force for the system to be extended to more sectors, for example by including shipping and international air traffic to and from the EU. We also want the free allocation of allowances to stop. Last but not least, we see it as necessary for the compensation that some countries provide to their industry to cease. Instead, incentives for industry to switch and make their energy use more efficient must be strengthened. I think I have repeated this as many times as I have said, but this is the main point. It must be a system that really provides a strong incentive for industry to switch and streamline its manufacturing and energy use while actually using the energy that has been produced in a sustainable way. From this point of view, we must ensure that, with the help of the ETS, not only that type of energy production, but also that renewable and sustainable energy production contributes to sustainable production within the Union. Madam President, I would like I have a few minutes left on my speaking time, but I think I can round off here. I think the big point has emerged. There is still more to be done to sharpen the ETS. For the Center Party, we believe that Sweden and all the parties in this House can play a crucial role in bringing our colleagues around the European Union on a policy that is more effectively driving towards a sustainable future. If this has not been an enjoyable speech, I hope that at least the outcome of the policy will be enjoyable not only for us in this House but for all the citizens of Europe!
i-126f33879d4ae16f-976	Madam President, I would like The issue is actually about implementing decisions already taken, but I can't help but take the floor to talk a little about the EU's emissions trading. There is so much joy to say. Let me first give you a quick background. I have been involved in climate policy for so long now – I look a little younger than I am – that I was almost there at the time when the system was created. Then I've been following it all these years. The price has commuted between that it costs like buying a pizza and even less – an expensive cappuccino, type. That's really bad. We can't have a price to release that's as low as a cappuccino. Here's the good news. We in the Green Party did not accept this, so we pushed for the government to have a new position and go down to Brussels to negotiate the system. The environmental movement named our proposal The Swedish Proposal, that is, it came from Sweden. Minister of Climate Change Isabella Lövin made an incredible negotiation and managed to bring the whole Union with her to greatly tighten up the system. The result is spectacular: 463% has increased the price since the Green Party and the government pushed our line through in Brussels. It's a huge increase. That is not enough; we want to increase even more, and we will do so in the future. But it's an incredible difference from what it was before. Many had condemned the system. I was almost one of them. I was almost ready to give up on the EU emissions trading scheme. But we managed to bring the other countries along and push through the changes. Now comes what is even more interesting and spectacular. It is that we are now witnessing the capsize of European coal as a direct consequence of the proposal that we in the Green Party and the government pushed through. It is huge to see this. Sandbag, the think tank that knows these questions best, has released a report that they named The Great Coal Collapse of 2019. They note that in every country in the EU coal burning collapses, and they point specifically to the proposal that the government pushed through. This is very good news. We will continue to tighten up the system further and lower the ceiling. We want to make an ambitious reduction in the entire ceiling directly and then lower the curve for each year to come. But what is so incredibly pleasing and positive is that you can see the value of examples here, i.e. that Sweden as an example can bring more. Quite often I hear in politics that a little Sweden can do what? After all, we account for only one per mil of the world's emissions and the like. That is precisely why our only chance of influencing the global is to be forerunners and bring more of us into that work. We have proved that we can do this now with regard to the EU's emissions trading system, and that is very positive. I support the proposal.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-983	Madam President, I would like We have, of course, been right to agree that the trading system in the EU needs to be tightened up and that, if properly designed, it can be a good instrument for reducing emissions. Lorentz Tovatt talked about having been in climate policy for a long time. I've been with you for a while, too. I negotiated the third trading period for the emissions system when I was a Member of the European Parliament. This gives us some insight, including the fact that if we have a harmonised system at European level, it will be more difficult to regulate at national level. It's like the price you pay. In Sweden, about 750 businesses, industries, are part of the EU's trading system. Most of them are in practice exempt from carbon tax here in Sweden on the grounds that they are part of the EU ETS. What I discussed earlier with Mr Burwick here, that there is no permit assessment based on greenhouse gas emissions for new industrial establishments in Sweden, is also done on the grounds that it is part of the EU ETS. Remember the Preemraff debate, which was a lot about it. Now the Green Party wants the transport sector to be included in the EU ETS. I am a little sceptical about that, because if the transport sector is to enter the EU ETS, it may be difficult to come up with unilateral legislation to reduce emissions from the transport sector in particular. I would like Mr Lorentz to tell us a little more about what the Green Party is doing for analysis. Is it really so sensible to bring the transport sector into the emissions trading system? Is it not quicker to regulate emissions from our transport operations with separate legislation and some taxes?
i-126f33879d4ae16f-989	Madam President, I would like There's nothing more fun than debating the climate with Jens Holm. I can stay here all night, I feel like. First of all, let me say that Jens Holm actually points to a dilemma. This is exactly how Jens Holm says there are problems with being held back at national level. How big those problems really are, it's a little unclear. Some other countries have moved on with, for example, a national price floor. This is something that the Green Party has been running for a long time here in Sweden. As far as the tax subsidies that have arisen as a consequence of the EU emissions trading scheme are concerned, nothing really prevents us from removing them. That work has already begun by the government. We have started by removing the tax subsidy available for fossil cogeneration. This has resulted in the closure of the last coal power plant in Sweden and the phasing out of fossil gas by several combined heat and power plants. So we have already started that work, and I see that we will continue to work on national measures within the system as well. We can also do so thanks to the reform that we have carried out. The market stability reserve means that if you make national commitments within the system, the total bubble is not the same, but you can remove emissions from the total bubble. Now it gets nerdy, but that's it. As far as the transport sector is concerned, we have, above all, been in favour of including air and maritime transport, which is more of a Union matter. We are not completely closed to looking at other parts of the transport sector, but we want to preserve some self-determination. However, this may mean that we can lift other countries in their climate work.
i-126f33879d4ae16f-995	Madam President, I would like The flight was included in the negotiations that I took part in when I was in the European Parliament. Those of us who were sceptical about it– I will not say that we were direct opponents, but we felt that it had to be worked out in a robust way– said that there is a great risk that airlines would only pass on the cost to passengers. You raise the ticket price a little bit, and then you can continue flying as usual. So you can buy yourself free. That's about what's happened. It has not been a powerful instrument for reducing aviation emissions. I would like to make a clear contribution to the Green Party: make sure to analyse this very carefully before you go down to Brussels and push for the transport sector to be included in the emissions trading system! You don't seem to have done that analysis fully. I would like to tie in with the discussion that I had earlier with Marlene Burwick about a possible lex Preem. What does the Green Party think about this? Now I looked into when the investigation referred to by Marlene Burwick should be completed. It's May 15, 2022. So it is not 2021, as I hoped. In this connection, I would like to ask the Green Party and Mr Lorentz why it is taking so long. Why are you investigating so much? And when you're investigating, why are you investigating for not just a year but two years? The climate can't wait. Wasn't it?
i-EkuKXXGEBr9ToT3ybTdHJC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the line shift! We focus on lex preem. I think it's a funny expression. I really think we should take it further in some way, that expression. First of all, let me say this: the partial report will come in the spring, and this is specifically about the environmental code. So it's going on. They will have a little longer time to work, but it will come in the spring. We'll try to move on as best we can. I won't brag, but the very origin of this investigation is in a motion that the Green Party submitted and for which I was the main author. There we noted that we now have a climate law in Sweden that is relatively ambitious from a global perspective. We are committed to it, but we have not allowed it to have an impact on existing legislation. That's exactly what we're investigating. One of the main purposes of this is to sort out the issues concerning just start-ups, such as Preemraff was. In my world, it is incomprehensible that Preemraf even got as far as it came. I would have liked it to have been stopped directly because of the enormous damage caused by the planned expansion. This is something that I think it would be reasonable to incorporate into the environmental and climate legislation we have – simply to state that if we are to meet our climate targets, we cannot have more fossil activity or infrastructure, end of story, and to have clear governance towards our climate goals. I look forward very much to this investigation, which will come in the spring, and will try to take this forward in every possible way.
