i-UQvPdziCyz3xyiWiKNY2oV	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Mikael Damberg, Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, Minister for Education Anna Ekström and Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-c3926ad358afb181-0	Madam President, I would like I turn to Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde. If Hong Kong's basic law and the idea of a China, two systems, were a sheet of paper, it has now been fused by the decision on special legislation against Hong Kong that the People's Congress of China took in Beijing with the votes of 2 828 Members for and 1 against. This is deeply serious and troubling. It is extremely important that we stand by the friends of freedom and also send a clear signal from the Swedish parliament and government. There will be a video meeting with the EU Foreign Ministers tomorrow. I think it is extremely important for Sweden to ensure that the European Union takes a very clear, sharp and clear line towards the People's Republic of China in view of what is being done in Hong Kong and Hong Kong. It's no longer business as usual!
i-c3926ad358afb181-2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Wallmark, for the question. The government pays great attention to the serious developments in Hong Kong. Today, as Mr Wallmark said, the Beijing National People's Congress approved the proposal to develop the new security legislation for Hong Kong. The government regrets the decision, which is not in line with China's commitments. The EU, and thereby Sweden, spoke quickly and clearly on Friday, the day after the announcement from Beijing that proposals for such legislation would be dealt with by the National People's Congress. As the EU pointed out at the time, we advocate that Hong Kong should deal with these issues within the framework of its constitution and its Article 23, which provides for Hong Kong itself to legislate on matters of treason and so on. Sweden, as well as the EU as a whole, is behind the principle, one country, two systems, to preserve Hong Kong's self-governing position with an independent political and legal system in accordance with Hong Kong's constitution.
i-c3926ad358afb181-5	Madam President, I would like So we are behind a country, two systems, and that is extremely central. This is essential, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says. We can regret and worry, but I think it is even more important that we are sharp and clear. Two major summits between the EU and the People's Republic of China are planned this year. It's not business as usual. Hong Kong is under threat today, Taiwan tomorrow. It is important to be clear and sharp – I hope the Foreign Minister is!
i-c3926ad358afb181-7	Madam President, I would like It is of fundamental importance that human rights and freedoms are granted in Hong Kong under the existing law. We are extremely clear and sharp in our reactions. We are following events closely. On Friday, we have a meeting with the EU Foreign Ministers where I will address the situation, but the whole of Europe will take it up; it is already on the agenda. There should be no doubt. The human rights and freedoms of Hong Kong residents shall continue to apply.
i-c3926ad358afb181-10	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Ekström. Swedish Radio announces that Säpo has sounded the alarm that people associated with violent extremism run around ten schools in the country. Johan Olsson at Säpo says that they use the schools to convey an ideological message but that it is also about money that is passed from school money to the violent movements. The worst of all is perhaps that Säpo suspects that the schools are being used to recruit men to these despicable organisations. According to Säpo, this requires a change of law. Does the Government have any proposals for legislative changes to curb this misuse of tax funds? If so, how long can it take to get this legislation in place?
i-c3926ad358afb181-12	Madam President, I would like Extremism and radicalisation do not belong in Swedish schools. Neither extremism, religious influence nor lack of knowledge is something we can accept. No children in Sweden should go to schools dedicated to this type of activity, and no tax money should go there. The school is there for children and students to learn a lot, not for extremists to be allowed to operate freely in Sweden. In January 2019, the Government tightened the rules for ownership and management testing. We have also set up a number of investigations, including one that will propose a ban on the establishment of religious free schools. There are concrete proposals for how an assurance that you support Swedish values and the mission to democracy can be forced from the person who runs a Swedish school.
i-c3926ad358afb181-14	Madam President, I would like I've read about that investigation. It also proposes some tightening up of the rules for non-confessional schools, including compliance with a democratic condition for those starting a school. But will this law, if introduced, stop the schools that fatten violent extremism? We already have the School Inspectorate. How has it missed these schools?
i-c3926ad358afb181-15	Madam President, I would like I welcome the commitment to putting an end to degenerative practices in the Swedish school market. I would also have welcomed if the Swedish Democrats had more clearly supported the strengthened rules for ownership and management testing that were introduced in January 2019. The provisions that are now being referred – the referral bodies have just responded – will be dealt with in the Government Office. However, I would like to remind you that we also have a major investigation in progress, which is about increasing the possibility of stopping schools with gross and repeated misdemeanours. Extremism does not have to do in Swedish schools. Resources for NFCs and long process times
i-c3926ad358afb181-18	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Mikael Damberg. There is an English proverb that I think is good. It reads: Justice delayed is justice denied. Thus: Delayed justice is not justice. We have a problem in Sweden with very long process times. This is serious in terms of the possibilities for investigating crimes and prosecuting guilty persons. Traces have time to get cold and witnesses have time to forget before you get to the main hearing. The fact is that the defendant is also valiant to ensure that a process is as fast as possible while maintaining legal certainty. You can go on with your life if you are found innocent, and you can serve your sentence if you are guilty and then quickly move on to a hopefully more honest way of life. An effective judicial apparatus requires a chain of laws that is connected, but we have a huge bottleneck in the form of NFC, the National Forensic Centre. The results of the investigation are not available due to the high level of analysis. What does the Government intend to do about this?
i-c3926ad358afb181-22	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Hedin, for the question! Process time is really important. We have had problems in the legal chain at several different levels. The police department has been undersized. For a number of years it has been growing strongly. The NFC, the National Forensic Centre, is part of the Police Authority and is also part of the effort made by the National Police Commissioner to shorten the process times and get this right. In recent years, several years in a row, we from the government in our amending budget have given extra money precisely to investments in the National Forensic Centre to shorten lead times. In the framework of Rimfrost, for example, one has worked on a fast track. With regard to the most prioritised criminal elements, which the police pursue within Rimfrost, the investigations will be in a fast track. I believe in this very much. The National Forensic Centre is in a transformation process. I'm getting reports from the chief of police that that work is progressing.
i-c3926ad358afb181-26	Madam President, I would like My experience from the industry is this: Controlling with a budget is a bit like steering with a rope. If you withdraw funds, pull the rope, activity disappears immediately. But you can't get into business by pressing the rope. Something else is required. There is a need for leadership that draws and fills operations with meaningful content. That's what's missing. The police are getting well over 20 billion and will get even more in the future. A fully-fledged police reform will end up somewhere around 36 billion. One of them should get into this.
i-c3926ad358afb181-27	Madam President, I would like I think it takes leadership to change. My picture – I have visited the National Forensic Centre several times in the past year – is that they are in a huge journey of change. It's even gone so far that there's been some mess and absconding internally in the organization. There have been some protests against the changes being made. I think that sometimes there needs to be such a big change that there will be protests. I will not interfere in the management and control of an internal part of the Police Authority, but the picture I get from the head of the National Police is that the National Forensic Centre is heading in the right direction.
i-c3926ad358afb181-29	Madam President, I would like Solidarity between workers and trade union struggle for common interests is the most important reason why we have the job security that we have today. Apparently, the LAS investigation on Monday will destroy much of that security. In practice, in smaller companies, there will be a free right of sparring. In many workplaces, trade union work risks ending completely, as a result of employers being given almost unlimited power. It will undermine the Swedish model, with constructive negotiations between the parties. My question to Eva Nordmark is: if the parties do not agree, will the Social Democratic-led government still go ahead and present what will be the most anti-trade union legislation that any government has put forward in decades?
i-c3926ad358afb181-31	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ciczie Weidby, for the question! As everyone knows, this is an investigation that comes up with its proposal on Monday. As a minister, I do not comment on individual parts of the investigation's proposal until I have received it. But what is important for me to say is that we agree, between the government and the cooperation parties, to develop and modernise labour law in a way that allows employers to have greater flexibility and that the security of employees is increased.
i-c3926ad358afb181-32	Madam President, I would like We need more security in the labour market, not less. If we are to modernise labour law and adapt it to today's labour market, we should start by abolishing the general fixed-term, banning planners and legislating on the right to full-time employment. Do not let the neo-liberals in the Center Party tear down the job security that we have today!
i-c3926ad358afb181-33	Madam President, I would like We fully agree, me and Ciczie Weidby, on the importance of safe conditions in the Swedish labour market for employees. But Sweden is a small, competitive country, where we need to ensure good conditions for both companies and employees. My answer and my reply are: if the parties do not agree – we hope they agree – I am prepared to take my responsibility and put forward proposals that are about ensuring both greater flexibility and greater security.
i-c3926ad358afb181-36	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This past week, Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Khamenei, has made a series of attacks on Israel. The country is described as a cancer tumor. Referring to the final solution of Nazism, there are threats that Israel will be destroyed. Around the world this has been met with dismay. Condemnations have come from a number of different countries. The High Representative of the European Union has made it clear that these statements are a serious cause for concern. On the Swedish Government's website there is no criticism of the Iranian leader and no condemnation from the Swedish Foreign Minister. My question is: why this silence, Ann Linde?
i-c3926ad358afb181-39	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Adaktusson, for the question! Of course, there is condemnation on our social media. I immediately sent out Josep Borrell's condemnation, which is very sharp and clear. Since we are members of the European Union, we are also behind this. What Lars Adaktusson says is simply not true. Furthermore, I can inform Lars Adaktusson that yesterday I spoke directly to the Iranian Foreign Minister and condemned the statements in the strongest terms. I don't have any bad vibes at all. Lars Adaktusson believes that we are not clear enough.
i-c3926ad358afb181-41	Madam President, I would like The UN Middle East envoy called on all countries the other day to condemn Khameneis anti-Semitic statements. Sweden has not contributed to this. The government usually tells us that the work against anti-Semitism is a high priority. How, Ann Linde, does it go with the mumbling and the silence of one of the world's most anti-Semitic regimes?
i-c3926ad358afb181-42	Madam President, I would like I understand that you, Lars Adaktusson, want to score political points on this, just like you usually do. But you cannot be more clear than you are when you speak clearly to the person representing the regime in Iran and say that this is totally unacceptable – that is what the Swedish Foreign Minister did yesterday.
i-c3926ad358afb181-44	Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemy has created major crises for our entire society, from a humanitarian and economic perspective. The other day we were able to read about the very serious situation that exists at the state company Samhall right now. The Chairman of the Federation of Real Estate Employees and the majority of safety officers warned in a debate article that Samhall's management did not take full action to protect staff from the infection, despite repeated calls to do so. This is particularly serious since many employees belong to a risk group. Many people are multisick with heart problems as well as lung disease, diabetes and other disabilities.
i-c3926ad358afb181-46	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. We take questions about the work environment very seriously within the framework of the government's corporate portfolio. I know that on several occasions the Minister of Economic Affairs has had a dialogue with several of the state-owned companies on health and safety at work, and this is a priority work. I have also noted that Samhall's management has been out in a public article and stated that it has a very good dialogue with the trade unions. These issues did not come up in the central dialogue, but if there are problems with health and safety at work, a good dialogue is expected on this. It is obvious when it comes to the state portfolio that we take our employees' work environment and health very seriously. I also assume that there is a good dialogue between employers and employees' representatives in the state companies. I can also note that Samhall is doing a great deal of work in the middle of the Corona crisis. For example, they manufacture protective equipment for the Swedish health care system. A great deal of work is being done in this particular crisis.
i-c3926ad358afb181-50	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Mikael Damberg! I was a little surprised that you stepped forward here, but it is just as well to take the debate with you as well. It feels safe to hear Samhall takes the signals seriously. Those who work at Samhall are people who are in a very vulnerable situation. As a state-owned company, it is important to be prepared to take the right measures. Given that there have been so many problems with Samhall in recent years I get very worried. I am pleased to hear that Samhall has taken on board the criticism.
i-c3926ad358afb181-53	Madam President, I would like As former Minister of Economic Affairs, I have extensive experience of Samhall. For many years Samhall received no additional resources, and the business became more and more anorexic and had growing challenges. For a number of years, however, they have received a supplement and can conduct the business with greater quality and more long-termness, and this gives results in the operations around Sweden. I look forward to Samhall continuing to deliver in relation to its employees and to the Swedish healthcare system in the midst of the crisis. A fundamental balance between the social partners
i-c3926ad358afb181-56	Madam President, I would like I would like to put a question to Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark. On Monday, the Minister for Labour receives the report on modernised labour law, but after leaks of the content of the investigation, criticism of the investigation has already emerged this week from several trade unions. Among other things, it is considered that the investigation does not live up to the wording of the January Agreement on the maintenance of the balance between the social partners. Then I wonder: What does the government mean by maintaining a fundamental balance between the parties?
i-c3926ad358afb181-58	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. It is a fundamental balance of power between the social partners. If you change labour law, you can never do it lightly. If this is done in a way that benefits either employers or employees, there is a great risk that we, as politicians, will reduce the incentives for the parties to sign collective agreements and come to an agreement. In the Swedish labour market today, we have over 660 collective agreements, delivering flexibility, industry adaptation and security. This is the very reason why we need to maintain the balance between the parties on the Swedish labour market, even if we change labour law.
i-c3926ad358afb181-62	Madam President, I would like In recent years we have seen a encouraging trend: More high school students have passed their degree within three years. In 2014, 71.4 per cent made it, and in 2019 it was 76.6 per cent. But this year, much has been different. As a general rule, since mid - March high school students have had to conduct their studies from home, and conditions differ drastically. We know that home conditions are of great importance already, but having your own room, good internet connection and parents who can help with homework are becoming more important than ever. My concern is that fewer will graduate this year.
i-c3926ad358afb181-65	Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia has hit very hard in Swedish society, and some of those who bear the heaviest burdens are our high school youth. They have been able to follow their entire teaching at a distance and have taken a great responsibility to prevent the spread of infection, to secure care and to protect the old and fragile in Sweden. Following signals from schools, the Public Health Agency and also the government have enabled schools to receive small groups of pupils who can, for example, carry out practical steps, tests and trials and also receive special support. There is no doubt that there is a concern that more students than usual do not pass school. The government has therefore initiated a school of praise together with the cooperation parties to enable those who need some extra support to complete the education to get it as well. It will also be possible to extend the semester into the summer holiday. I would also like to remind you of the possibilities for redress that will be available later in the system for these young people too.
i-c3926ad358afb181-69	Madam President, I would like I would like to say to the Minister for Education that he is committed to these students. Having an upper secondary school degree is of crucial importance for how to survive in working life for the rest of your life. I hope that, as soon as the infection situation allows, we can give priority to the return of upper secondary school to local education which is so important for the future of our young people.
i-c3926ad358afb181-70	Madam President, I would like This terrible spring semester has taught us that close-up education – that teachers and students are in the same classroom – is unbeatable. I really want the high school students to have access to local education as soon as possible, but at the moment we are now, the work to ensure that we are safe from the spread of infection must come first. In Sweden, we will have a strong system for returning to the labour market with more education throughout life. Komvux will also be very important for these young people.
i-c3926ad358afb181-72	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry about my trickery here in the speaker's chair, Danes! These days we have had to report to us that the Danes intend to pump untreated wastewater into Öresund. 290 000 cubic metres should be flushed straight into the strait, and it can mean unpleasant experiences when visiting our beautiful white Skåne beaches. Firstly, this is not a measure which in any way improves the Öresund environment. Secondly, it is a question of cooperation between Skåne and Själland. Over the past year, cooperation has received several snoutings, not least now with the closed border. Thirdly, it is a question of political fitness. It is not often Scanian problems get Stockholm's attention, but now it is time for the government to act. My question to Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ann Linde, is therefore what measures she intends to take in response to the Danish's announcement of waste water in our Öresund.
i-c3926ad358afb181-76	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Louise Meijer, for the question! I spoke earlier today with Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin, who has had direct contact with her counterpart on the Danish side and expressed our surprise at what happened. Neither the government nor our authorities were informed of the planned discharges into the water. Then it has turned out that there have been quite strong emissions in the past with even greater quantities than was planned at the moment. Now this has been temporarily stopped. We have received information from the Danish side that they will look at the issue and come back, and we will continue to have a dialogue. We in the government have taken this issue very seriously and we will continue to have direct contact with the Danish Government on this issue.
i-c3926ad358afb181-80	Madam President, I would like We can still, the government's 34-point programme and despite the Corona crisis, take note of cases of humiliation robbery and violent crimes with anti-Swedish elements. But in principle not a single verdict has noted the anti-Swedish elements as hate crime. As a result, punishment has ignored reprehensible violations. The discrepancy between high-profile cases and non-existent punishment for Swedish hostility is astounding. Racist motivated violence is perfectly okay in Sweden if it is directed against Swedes. There are, as I see it, two ways to go for the government: Either you take steps to really mark against Swedish hostility or the government accepts the fact that Swedish hostility today is okay. I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior, whose government has not done a thing on this issue in the six years it has been in power, if you are going to take any steps to make Swedish hostility more severe.
i-c3926ad358afb181-84	Madam President, I would like As a minister, I shall not and will not comment on individual judgments or the judgment of courts on criminal offences. That would be deeply inappropriate. What I can say is that we have made historical investments in Swedish police. We are expanding police forcefully across the country. We've given the police new tools. We have tightened up precisely the penalties relating to serious robberies, and I will come back in the near future with regard to the weapons and tools used in this type of robbery. This really is a kind of crime that we take very seriously. On the other hand, as Minister of the Interior, it does not matter to me who is committing a crime or who is the victim. Regardless of origin, it is incredibly important that all crimes should be punished. This is an important principle for me when we tighten the penalties, strengthen the police and prevent this type of crime.
i-c3926ad358afb181-88	Madam President, I would like I turn to Foreign Minister Linde. For our border regions, crossing between countries is incredibly important, partly for cross-border trade and jobs, and partly for many who have relatives on both sides of the border. Norway's closed border has led to very difficult economic consequences. At the border with Finland are border guards who have quite a lot of powers. They can even drive after people to make sure they really go where they're supposed to, something that creates great frustration among the population in the area. Within the Nordic Council, we are working hard to remove border barriers between the Nordic countries. Unfortunately, the countries decided very quickly on closure without a common strategy. Is that something we will see in the future?
i-EWGY4uLaKYcpgjZsPbBykc	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lorena Delgado Varas, for the question. This is an issue that I think is very important for the future relationship between the Nordic countries and not least for how cooperation in the border regions should take place. Unfortunately, we have now taken very different decisions on borders. Sweden has chosen to have completely open borders within the EU and the EEA, i.e. both to Denmark and Norway, while these countries have chosen other routes. I think it is unfortunate, although we must respect each country's own decisions. Regardless of the current negative impact on our cooperation, I hope that, when we are through this pandemic, border cooperation will heal the wounds that may have arisen so that we can return to a very close Nordic cooperation. We'll make it.
i-c3926ad358afb181-96	Madam President, I would like The support for short-term lay-offs has been an important tool for mitigating redundancies and protecting companies in the deep crisis that is now affecting the Swedish labour market. However, a clear problem with the regulatory framework is that the aid requires companies applying for support from the Swedish Agency for Growth to answer yes to the question whether they have fired enough employees with temporary, temporary, probationary or consultancy contracts in the midst of the crisis. Even those from Samhall have, as a consequence, had to leave their jobs, in accordance with the legislation. The Authority has therefore requested this information from more than 50 000 companies in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that many people would have kept their jobs if the government's policy had not made a difference between employees and employees and forced dismissals. My question to the Minister for Labour is therefore: why does the government not change the rules?
i-TGKBcsJBgADwCAwPkBqAVY	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Damm, for the question. Short-term work and short-term lay-offs, which we are currently using in the Swedish labour market, save a great many jobs. The Institute of Economic Development pointed out quite recently that we would have had 175 000 more unemployed if we had not had the system of short-term lay-off. It is important to say that anyone who wants to use this system can also retain critical staff, both those who have temporary jobs and those who work as consultants.
i-c3926ad358afb181-102	Madam President, I would like The other week I read in the teacher's newspaper about the problem of parental pressure against teachers when it comes to grading or deciding on disciplinary measures. In the past, we have raised the problem of student press and also what I call government press, namely that even school authorities squeeze teachers or principals when it comes to teachers who intervene against messy pupils who interfere with teaching. The issue of the Children's and Student's Representative is particularly topical right now. On the one hand, the government will appoint a new head of the Children's and Student's Representative, and on the other hand we have ongoing judgments being negotiated around the country. We also want the regulations in the school law to be changed. One point where we have not yet seen any effect of the debate on teachers' working environment is Chapter 6. The law on staff violations. My question to the Minister for Education is whether she will take the initiative to clarify that legislation in order to increase support for Sweden's teachers.
i-c3926ad358afb181-105	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Haddad, for a very important question! The teacher has an important role both in the classroom and in school and also in the lives of many students. The teacher should be the one who decides in the classroom, and the teacher who solves difficult situations by law should have the support of the whole community. The government is now reviewing the school law and disciplinary measures. This is one of the many positive effects of the January agreement reached by the government with the Center Party and the Liberals. We will provide more opportunities to shut down or relocate violent students. In accordance with the January agreement, we will also review the structure of public authorities. On the question of whether we are going to review precisely Chapter 6. The school law, which Roger Haddad is now calling for, I have no answer today. What is on the table with the government is what we are working on in the January agreement and urgent issues where the Corona crisis is forcing us to put everything else aside so that we can resolve them.
i-c3926ad358afb181-109	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. The Corona crisis affects us all, but for those who in February set the alarm clock, hastened out of bed, took their first cup of coffee, rushed off to preschool to leave the children and tried to catch the bus to get to work as quickly as possible, this change is huge. The everyday life of the Corona crisis is tough. Many have become unemployed or laid off. The change came quickly and forced us all to change quickly. The government's strengthening of unemployment insurance, short-term leave and the strengthening of welfare are crucial for people to make the transition. Forward, it must be about giving everyone who has lost the job the opportunity to change.
i-c3926ad358afb181-114	Madam President, I would like I must admit that I have lost track of all the amending budgets that have been put on Parliament's table. In them we have done a lot for the groups that Mattias Vepsä brings up. We have strengthened the vocational training that exists in our municipalities and also simplified the rules and reduced the requirement for co-financing by the municipalities. We have expanded and strengthened the university of applied sciences and also introduced new courses at the university of applied sciences, which we know directly leads to good job opportunities. In the healthcare and elderly care lift that has been developed, we will also train both nurses and nurses. We have strengthened folk high schools, both general courses and other educations. We have ensured that leisure activities, which are so important for parents to be able to go to work safely, can also be strengthened. We have therefore done a lot, but more will have to be done, because the Corona crisis is far from over.
i-c3926ad358afb181-121	Madam President, I would like The tourism industry is one of the sectors that was hit hard early, and the situation will continue to prevail for the industry well into this crisis. As summer approaches and hemester talks about hemester, campsites are one of the hemester suggestions that have been included in the news. They're waiting to hear from the government what their summer will look like.
i-c3926ad358afb181-124	Madam President, I would like There are many of us waiting for Friday. On Friday, it is planned that the Swedish Public Health Agency together with the Government will clarify what the recommendations should look like for the summer. But even now I think most of us for the summer have thought that we should plan our vacation at home, in the immediate area in Swedish environments. Then it is also important that there are clear guidelines, for example for camping holidays, which can be important not least for those who do not have their own summer house. Then there may still be opportunities to get a good vacation this summer. That information will come soon, and I would rather not precede it. But I note that several campsites around Sweden are open. We're seeing an increased occupancy. I also see that the campsite organisations have worked hard to take measures to reduce the spread of infection and contribute to sustainable tourism.
i-c3926ad358afb181-128	Madam President, I would like Our country has been hit very hard by covid-19, and more than 4,000 people have now died. It is a hugely high figure that stands out in comparison with the rest of the world. Our Nordic neighbours understood at an early stage that the situation was serious, and measures such as shutdown and testing were introduced. Sweden, on the other hand, has not even today managed to get started with sufficient testing. On the contrary, tests have been reduced. At the same time, Sweden has had the highest death toll two weeks in a row. That's more than 4,000 dead. Above all, older people have to pay for the government's complete failure in their lives.
i-c3926ad358afb181-132	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that it is a terrible tragedy for the families who have suffered losses – the 4 000 people who have lost their lives during the pandemic in Sweden. It is a tragedy and something that we take very seriously. When we analyse the figures, we see that many people have died in the context of care for the elderly linked to special housing or perhaps had home care. This does not apply everywhere, not all of Sweden, but it is focused around the Stockholm region and some other regions near Stockholm where death rates have gone away. We are now making major efforts with testing and various efforts to increase skills and ensure that the spread does not take hold in the care of the elderly in order to reduce mortality. However, I still believe that it was right not to shut down the whole of society. There are other consequences of an entire lockdown that must be valued: for school, for vulnerable children, for women who may suffer abuse and for the financial problems that may arise.
i-c3926ad358afb181-136	Madam President, I would like When the People's Congress decided today, 2 878 against 1, to introduce a new security law, it was a basic shot against a country, two systems, which we have supported. It was a basic shot against the people of Hong Kong who were fighting for freedom and democracy. There were many of them, and there are many of them. It was a starting point against Hong Kong's autonomy and against the Sino-British agreement. For a government that stands up for a pro-democracy offensive and wants to mark the importance of democracy, it must be self-evident to condemn clearly the decision taken in the People's Congress against the democrats in Hong Kong. I hope that it will also make Europe a voice in favour of this.
i-c3926ad358afb181-138	Madam President, I would like I thank Kerstin Lundgren for the same question that Mr Wallmark asked a while ago. I'll give you the same answer. We are following events closely, and we very much regret the decision taken today. It is essential that the people of Hong Kong can retain the human rights and freedoms to which they are entitled under the law of one country, two systems. We will raise the issue on Friday, tomorrow, with the foreign ministers of the European Union. Hong Kong is on the agenda, and I will personally raise the issue, after having been approved by the EU Council to do so. I intend to be tough on the decision taken today by the National People's Congress.
i-c3926ad358afb181-142	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister of Home Affairs Mikael Damberg. Entrepreneurs and individuals throughout Sweden are affected daily by burglaries from foreign theft leagues that can safely carry the goods across the border. We Christian Democrats have been fighting for a long time to change the law so that the Customs Administration can seize stolen goods on its way out of the country. The government has for a long time refused to listen, but on 14 February Minister Damberg announced that the Customs Agency will be given increased powers to stop stolen goods. But will it become a reality? Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, responsible for the Swedish Customs Agency, has not confirmed in the Riksdag and in interviews that the Swedish Customs Agency will have increased powers. Instead, her message is that the issue should only be reviewed and that the government should consider whether something should change. The Minister for Finance's vague statement deviates from the commitment of the Minister for Home Affairs. What's the deal?
i-c3926ad358afb181-146	Madam President, I would like The issue of international theft leagues is important. They account for a large part of burglaries in homes and holiday homes, for thefts of boat engines and car parts etc. in Sweden. In fact, much of the theft is committed by international theft leagues. Therefore, a determined effort is being made to reduce thefts. The police, along with customs and others, are deliberately working on the matter. We have worked intelligence-based with international contacts and the countries that account for much of this. Much is not good about the Corona crisis, but in this area theft through international theft leagues has been reduced. I am pleased Ingemar Kihlström government will come back with proposals for changes to give new powers to customs.
i-c3926ad358afb181-149	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde. Everyone realizes that the coronapandemy affects people all over the world. That is why António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations, has called for a cease-fire in ongoing conflicts around the world. Nevertheless, the situation in Yemen is extremely unstable. STCW, the Southern Transitional Council, has declared Southern Yemen independent. People in Yemen have been hit extremely hard by the civil war. The Coronapendem makes the situation worse. I therefore wonder what the government in general and the Foreign Minister in particular are doing linked to the situation in Yemen.
i-c3926ad358afb181-152	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that there is a great deal of commitment to Yemen. It should be even bigger everywhere. We are committed and work actively to support the UN's efforts for Yemen. Following my visit to Yemen and Saudi Arabia at the end of February, I have continued to have active and extensive contacts with the parties. Last night I discussed the matter with the Iranian Foreign Minister and just a few days ago with the UN Secretary-General, Mr Guterres, and my Saudi counterpart, to try to bring about a ceasefire, as Mr Guterres has called for. Unfortunately, we see that there has now been a corona outbreak there, and the humanitarian situation is the worst in the world. It would be so incredibly good if we could have a UN settlement with a cease-fire for these tormented people in Yemen, so I hope that more people will do what they can to bring it about.
i-c3926ad358afb181-155	Madam President, I would like If Sweden is to become strong again after the Corona crisis, the work line needs to be strengthened. There are frequent reports that unemployment is rising rapidly. According to Parliament's investigative service, the temporary increases in the unemployment insurance fund will increase the number of unemployed by about 40,000 per year unless a checkout is restored. Madam President, I would like Will the Minister of Labour ensure that the unemployment fund returns to original levels before the end of the year, and does the Minister of Labour share my concern that higher unemployment rates result from higher unemployment?
i-c3926ad358afb181-157	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Sofia Westergren, for an important question! What the government has done and has also been supported is strong reinforcement of unemployment benefits. It is important at a time when people lose their jobs that we ensure the financial security of people who work. During the financial crisis, we had a different color for the government. Then your party sat in the government. Even then, it was recognised that, in the event of a crisis, good financial compensation was also needed for those who are unemployed. My ambition is to ensure that we can develop unemployment insurance. I will receive an investigation on June 15th. It is intended to ensure that more people can benefit from the security provided by the unemployment insurance fund, including self-employed workers, freelancers and other groups who do not have that security with the old system. I look forward to continuing to discuss this.
i-c3926ad358afb181-162	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, we see gang crime in Sweden that is spreading further and further down the age range. Many people feel a great deal of uncertainty about going out. We see shootings and blasts that neither Corona nor Rimfrost have been able to push back. On the contrary, they have grown so far this year compared to last year. In this situation, it is vitally important that policies show the necessary capacity for action and provide the judiciary with both sufficient resources and the right tools to intervene against gang crime and prevent new recruitment to the criminal gangs, which plague so many people so much. One must probably look for worse political timing than the government is now presenting a limitation on detention periods, as both police officers and many prosecutors have warned will make it more difficult to investigate serious crime. How can the government and Mikael Damberg make such a proposal right now?
i-c3926ad358afb181-166	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to agree with the description of the problem. We have far too many shootings and blasts in Sweden. We've got a gang crime that's got to get stuck in society, and that's what we're determined to break. Large investments in a stronger police agency are perhaps the most important tool for that. Now the police are growing with 10,000 more employees. We have given the police new tools, ranging from secret data reading and new possibilities to set up cameras to tighten penalties in a number of areas. This work will be completed, and our 34-point programme against gang crime – the largest programme against gang crime ever in Sweden – will be completed and implemented. When it comes to detention periods, Sweden has for a long time received international criticism on a number of points, such as the isolation of children in processes. It's being addressed now. We have had a proposal for a referral that neither the Police Authority nor the Public Prosecutor's Office had any comments on. But in committee, if I understand correctly, we will also adjust the deadline from six months to nine months. I guess it appeases some critics.
