i-EMKQoEZsh6BPvJVzh8RE8T	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Education Anna Ekström, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist and Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Education Anna Ekström answers both general policy questions and questions within her own area of responsibility.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-0	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in a very serious situation with regard to the rule of law. Explosives and shootings are increasing. The gang crime is getting stuck. There's an increase in insecurity. People feel that the rule of law no longer has the capacity to combat crime or the ability to create justice. I understand that people are declared, but it is possible to break the negative trend that Sweden is in. However, the right policy is needed. The Moderates want to see search zones, anonymous witnesses, the expulsion of more foreign citizens, the abolition of youth discounts for young offenders and double penalties for gang criminals. For all these measures there is strong support from the Swedish people. It showed a measurement from Novus the other day.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-3	Madam President, I would like The simple answer is that we are taking more measures than any other government has done in combating and preventing crime. During my six years so far in the Ministry of Justice, we have done a long series of penalties; I think it is about fifty or so. We've made a very big effort on the police. On Monday, 600 police officers leave police training. Next year, another 1,400 police officers will leave the two new police training centres Borås and Malmö. We started new police training there a couple of years ago. So the first hill comes out in June. We've made a lot of investments in camera surveillance. We have also made great efforts to develop police tools, including secret data reading as well as new arrest possibilities. This has caused us to fill up both prisons and prisons. We will continue with these major efforts in the future to combat crime. People simply have the right to security, no matter where they live in Sweden.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-7	Madam President, I would like Every time the Minister of Justice is asked what he intends to do to break the negative trend in Sweden, he is content to talk about what has already been done. But I do not believe that there is anyone other than the government and the Minister of Justice who is satisfied and thinks that what is being done is enough to combat gang crime that is currently getting stuck in Sweden.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-9	Madam President, I would like It is one thing to be able to account for the very massive measures that we have taken but then be able to say that we are not satisfied with it; we must continue. That is exactly why the government launched last year what we call the 34-point programme. It is another series of measures to strengthen law enforcement. It contains, among other things, stricter penalties in connection with gang crime but also developed tools for the police and other things. At the same time, we will also make sure to be better at preventing crime. This work, Madam President, will continue during the term of office.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-12	Madam President, I would like For a large part of today's 65-year-olds 40 years of work will not pay off. They will not even receive more pension with the new pension supplement than the immigrants who come to Sweden and who have not worked a single day and have not contributed a single crown to our common tax cake. Estimates show that three out of four pensioners will receive a pension that is worse than basic protection, despite the new supplement and the announced tax reduction. That's what the government thinks our Swedish pensioners are worth. At the same time, immigrants are getting better off. It is an affront, a great betrayal, and a punishment for hard work.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-15	Madam President, I would like If I were a Swedish democrat, I would be a little careful to talk about insult and punishment for our pensioners. After all, the Swedish Democrats have twice pressed the button in this House to stop proposals to take steps to close the unfair tax gap between pensioners and wage earners. The government, on the other hand, protects the security of pensioners and their finances. It is important that there is good care for the elderly and good care for our elderly and that they should have enough in their wallets. The government's budget therefore provides nine out of ten pensioners with either increased pensions or reduced taxes next year. But this is just the beginning. We want to continue to strengthen the finances of pensioners through various measures. It is both about the pension supplement and about strengthening the pension system in the long term so that it pays to work. It should always have paid off to work. We must therefore strengthen the pension system.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-17	Madam President, I would like Being a taxpayer and later a pensioner in Sweden of the Social Democrats is like acting as a cash cow to finance someone else's nice party while you can only afford a crust yourself. The fact remains: Immigrants who have never contributed to us will be better off than those who have worked a whole life for our country's prosperity. I put the question this way: does the Minister of Finance think this is reasonable?
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-19	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats have zero credibility when they talk about pensioners as cashiers. They have voted against tax reductions for pensioners. They have pressed the button in this House to vote against our proposals to close the unfair tax gap. Besides, it's a lie. Pensioners are no worse off than immigrants. On the contrary, the guarantee pension is higher than the old-age support that immigrant pensioners receive.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-20	Madam President, I would like Every day, children suffer unnecessary custody disputes. These are disputes that could have been avoided if there was more knowledge about how to talk to children, if they had had the opportunity to do so without the guardian's presence and if there had been a focus on cooperation instead of inability to cooperate. The investigation came in 2017 See the child! which the Minister has promised a bill for the autumn of 2020. It has not arrived, but is now referred to spring 2021. The investigation has some good suggestions, although I see the need for more steps. Children are also affected by not having two parents and guardians at birth because of outdated rules in Sweden. Also in terms of parenthood presumption there was a proposal that was promised in the autumn, but it is postponed until spring.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-24	Madam President, I would like The government always puts children's interests and children's needs first. When it comes to See the Child! , the investigation that came in 2017, we have worked on the legislative proposals, and we continue to do so. As I see it now, we will be able to present legislative proposals at the beginning of next year and then a bill. We had planned to do so this autumn, but it has to be understood that a great deal of our resources at the Ministry of Justice have been tied up in solving some issues related to the Corona crisis. This means that we have had to push some processes forward for a few months and perhaps even six months. However, this is an issue that we are now prioritising in the department and, as I said, we will be presenting legislative proposals on this at the beginning of next year.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-25	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I very much hope that these proposals will come in the spring, because they have been shot at several times in the future. On Friday, an investigation showed what needs to be amended in Swedish law in order for the Convention on the Rights of the Child to work in Swedish law. My supplementary question is, on the basis of that inquiry: Should children have to wait for many years to enjoy their rights to speak, including custody, housing and social relations?
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-27	Madam President, I would like No, of course not. The message I am giving today is the one that applies. We will be able to come forward with a legislative proposal to the Law Council and then present a proposal at the beginning of next year. I think it is urgent to have some of these issues resolved. There are a lot of good proposals in that investigation that I really want to make. Therefore, this work is now a priority in the Ministry of Justice.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-29	Madam President, I would like Despite the fact that we have the world's most extreme education system, where school has become a market and where children and students are seen as customers, an S-led government often stands passive on the issue of commercialisation, this because of the January agreement. The welfare thieves who own the International English School, Academedia and other venture capital-owned school companies thus continue to pillage millions at the expense of children, pupils and staff. It has gone so far that information about these schools is considered to be business secrets, which should cause everyone to be concerned and cursed. That is why we in the Left Party have tabled a proposal for a committee initiative on the principle of public access. We believe that there should be total transparency as to what is going on in these schools. I wonder where the government is on the issue of the principle of public access, Anna Ekström. It is not mentioned in the January agreement, so the government cannot refer to the fact that it must not pursue the issue for Annie Lööf, as it usually does in other matters.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-33	Madam President, I would like The party politics of the Social Democrats is not accountable here in Parliament's pulpit during Question Time. Nevertheless, I will gladly and proudly say that the Social Democratic Labour Party has been opposed for many years to the fact that we lack the principle of public access to free school. That is why we in government have ensured that legislative referrals and proposals are made to implement a principle of public access even in free school. We previously had the support of the bourgeois parties in the so-called Free School Committee. Today, Madam President, we are in a different position. I note that the House which is to pass the laws requested by Daniel Riazat has so far shown little interest in implementing a principle of public access. I hope that together we will be able to take steps forward to ensure that the Swedish school becomes a joint educational institution and not a service on the market just about. But that, Madam President, requires that we have a discussion in Parliament and can come to an agreement.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-35	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. In a survey conducted by the newspaper School World, it turned out that only two parties in the Swedish Parliament oppose a principle of public access, namely the Center Party and the Swedish Democrats. Now that the Left Party is presenting the committee initiative, I wonder: Will the government and government parties support a committee initiative on the principle of public access if there is a majority in parliament on this issue?
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-38	Madam President, I would like In addition, Daniel Riazat now expects me to present the positions of the other parties during Question Time. The Social Democrats and the government want to see the school develop into a joint educational institution. For us to be able to implement legislation, we must have support in Parliament. I hope that we will have Parliament's support for a number of urgent legislative products that may be on the way. It is about joint admissions and the school queues that I find very unfair. I hope for constructive cooperation with Parliament on these important issues.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-41	Madam President, I would like In the spring, after the pandemic struck, the government introduced, according to demands and pressure from the Riksdag, support based on the turnover step, the so-called conversion support. Aid was offered for fixed costs to companies with a turnover of at least 30 %, a limit then adjusted to 50 %. Now that the spread of infection has increased sharply and restrictions and recommendations have been strengthened, businesses are again experiencing a rapid downturn in the economy. This time companies can be expected to be in worse condition than last spring, as many have now run out of previously established margins used. Is the Minister of Finance therefore, now that the aid is being extended, prepared to re-establish the 30% turnover threshold in order to avoid bankruptcies and redundancies?
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-44	Madam President, I would like During the year, the government has taken historically large measures to support Sweden and lead Sweden through the crisis. It is about securing resources for health care and care for the elderly, so that we can take care of those who get sick. It is about supporting those who lose their job with both good unemployment and education. It is also about saving Swedish companies and Swedish jobs through the crisis. There, short-term lay-off has been important and has allowed thousands of people who would otherwise have been unemployed to be on short-term leave. We also have a conversion support to support companies that lose many customers but still have fixed costs, so that they can overwinter. We are now looking at the new restrictions on what additional support is needed for businesses. I am not ruling out any measures at this stage. We are now looking at what is the most appropriate design. I look forward to continuing a constructive dialogue with Parliament's parties as we did earlier this year.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-46	Madam President, I would like These are historic measures, but it is also a historic pandemic. We have never experienced such a thing before in modern times. It is clear that the measures must be beyond anything else. But now that restrictions and recommendations are being presented that are good – we need them to deal with the infection – a package of measures should also come immediately to provide security and support to all those who organise jobs through their entrepreneurship. I am pleased with the positive news from the Minister for Finance today. We look forward to a conversion support that better secures entrepreneurship.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-48	Madam President, I would like It is not only important for companies to be informed about support after we have come up with the restrictions. It was even the case that we came up with additional support before we went out with the restrictions, so that companies would have that security even when we came up with the tough restrictions. They knew we'd extend the short-term lay-off until July 1st next year. They knew that we would extend the possibility of deferment of taxes. It was also the case that we extended the conversion aid during August, September and October. There we actually gave important information even before we went out with the restrictions, and the purpose was to protect Swedish companies and Swedish jobs.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-50	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise once again the issue of the working environment for the Swedish teaching staff. Even before the pandemic, we tried to draw attention to this acute problem. Some 40,000 teachers have left the profession. This corresponds to almost today's lack of teachers, which affects both preschool and school and allows existing teachers who remain in the business to work even more. That is why we from the Liberals have been pushing for many years to remove the double command by nationalising the school, to reduce the administrative burden on teachers and to raise the status of the teaching profession. With regard to the administrative burden and tasks, it becomes even more relevant in these times, during the pandemic, to ensure a working environment that allows teachers to keep over time and cope with their mission. My question to Minister of Education Anna Ekström is what measures are being taken to facilitate the teachers' everyday lives that they are about to announce.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-53	Madam President, I would like I thank Roger Haddad for this very important issue. We are used to talking about Sweden being in a strained position. We are used to paying homage to the heroes who work in health care and care. But I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to all those who are working hard in our Swedish school, in our Swedish preschool, in adult education and in all other forms of education. It is a very strained situation, and it is a huge effort that is being made. We know, Madam President, that the fact that we keep school open in Sweden gives our children and students better opportunities than they would otherwise have had to learn a lot but also to have a safe childhood and an upbringing where they can have well-being and security and thus live a better life in the future. We owe all the staff in the school a lot of thanks. Overcoming the shortage of teachers requires a great deal of effort. I look at the time that I have to come back to Roger Haddad in my last speech on what measures we are planning.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-56	Madam President, I would like The most important factor behind the fact that so many teachers leave the profession is precisely shortcomings in the working environment and conditions. Among other things, the Liberals have presented a proposal to introduce a national priority list. There the state enters this extraordinary situation from the authorities and government and says what applies to the tasks. This applies, for example, to development discussions, certain documentation requirements and reporting requirements to the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish School Inspectorate. That is what we can hold off on. Will the government and the Minister for Education come forward with such a proposal?
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-59	Madam President, I would like In this severely strained situation, we are investing in many things. We do a lot of things together with the Liberals and the Center Party. I am talking about teachers' assistants and increased efforts at supplementary educational education. It is an initiative that is becoming increasingly urgent in the time we are living in when so many become unemployed and are willing to switch over. We also see that more people are applying for teacher training, which is incredibly positive. But the hand on the heart, the teaching profession should really increase in attractiveness the teachers themselves must feel that their profession is attractive. That is what we strive for in the government, in good cooperation with the Centers and Liberals.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-61	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. Coping with gang crime and other crime requires action against the crimes but also against the causes of the crimes. Crime prevention and recurrence prevention are sometimes sidelined in the political debate. But they are probably the most important ones for security and security and for society to stay together. A recent study of Novus, mentioned earlier, shows that there is a high level of support for prevention in the population. Nine out of ten consider such measures to be important in combating crime.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-65	Madam President, I would like The Swedish people are wise. I also saw that there is a crushing majority of the Swedish people who say that the fight against crime that we are now doing is not enough. We must also prevent crime. It is about making sure, for example, that the new recruits for the criminal gangs are broken. Now we're doing a lot for law enforcement. Everyone knows that. There's more cops, more camera surveillance, more sentencing, a lot more in custody, prisons, and so on. What is now important is that the municipalities can answer for the major government efforts that we are now making so that the municipalities invest in their parts. This applies to school, social services and leisure activities. This is especially true now that municipalities have a very strong economy. I believe that this year the local government sector has a surplus of almost 40 billion, perhaps even more. Now use that money to prevent crime by, for example, investing in school, social services and fritis! I think that's the call to leave.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-68	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Justice, for your answer. Crime is a threat to the whole of democratic society and must be combated by all means. It is when faith in the future is lost that gangs and violence become an option for a great many young people. As the Minister of Justice mentioned, we will fight the crimes but also the causes of the crimes. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Justice: what else do we need to do to fight gang crime today?
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-71	Madam President, I would like If we are talking about prevention, I think that in the short term it is a lot about social services. Where you can go in and see that when young people are about to get into crime, you have to do the care that you need to do. In the longer term, it is about things like that there should be a good school wherever the students live and that there are leisure activities for example also for children of the unemployed. I've seen that some municipalities don't even want to help and manage it. Once again, the local government sector must now respond to the major government efforts we are making to break the new recruitment into crime.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-75	Madam President, I would like Two out of three free schools in the big cities do not have a single newly arrived student. The same figure for municipal schools is 6%. The huge division of students based on their background is not only detrimental to the ability of newly arrived students to learn the Swedish language. It ultimately threatens our opportunity to ensure that children grow up with trust in each other in society.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-77	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Hirvonen, for a very important question! We see that the Swedish students' knowledge results are rising in several international knowledge measurements. We also see an increase in the number of qualifications for further studies. At the same time, however, we see that the statistics on school segregation are only getting worse for each measurement. If we are to continue to raise students' knowledge and ensure that we have a society that holds together, we must break school segregation. The government has several suggestions on the table that are sent for referrals. Among other things, it is about getting a common admission system so that no one can pick the raisins out of the cake. It is a matter of ensuring that school elections can take place in such a way that pupils have the opportunity to apply to schools that are more fair and more equal. It is also a matter of ensuring that the incredibly unfair queue that is a segregation machine in today's school is abolished.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-81	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Anna Ekström for her reply. It is not enough that we sort our children according to background. Today, we provide schools that have many children with high needs with less educated teachers. This applies all the way from preschool up. Pedagogical segregation is a major obstacle in ensuring that every child can achieve the knowledge goals for Swedish schools.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-84	Madam President, I would like Annika Hirvonen is absolutely right. We also have an educational segregation. Teachers and preschool teachers with the most experience and education are located in schools and preschools where the needs are at least. So far, we have succeeded well in finding ways to compensate for the lack of equivalence in schools. But now it is about time that we in this House together took the step and strengthened equivalence also by counteracting the segregation that is unfortunately rampant in the Swedish school. Sweden's priorities in European cooperation on security
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-87	Madam President, I would like In Europe, a great deal is happening right now. I am thinking mainly of the new strategic compass. It is a strategic effort aimed at providing a clearer focus on EU security policy priorities such as crisis management, resilience, capability development and partnership. Work has now begun under the German Presidency and will be completed under the French Presidency. Now a first threat analysis will be presented. The Netherlands has already presented its priorities in this work. Unfortunately, the government has been too slow to pursue clear Swedish priorities in European defence and security cooperation. My question to the Minister for Defence is: What has the Swedish Government done to be involved in influencing the direction of this important work at an early stage?
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-90	Madam President, I would like The strategic compass is about summarising and providing an overall view of the challenges facing the EU in 360 degrees perspective. This is about how we can strengthen our ability to become more robust and sustainable in the future through different types of measures. These are areas of crisis management. It is about how we, together in Europe, can contribute to strengthening the ability of nations to develop their military capabilities. It is about our cooperation, and above all it is about getting a strong Europe. In this debate the government participates, and in this development work the government participates. I do not really understand the concept of slowness or what wording was used in this context. We participate in the work just like other countries and participate in the development project.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-94	Madam President, I would like Denmark's Radio revealed last week that an extensive US espionage during the Obama-Biden administration took place in collaboration with the Danish Defence Intelligence Agency against Denmark and, among other things, Sweden. They have been spying on Sweden and the Swedish defence industry. This took place in the final phase of the Danish process of purchasing new fighter aircraft, where Saab's Gripen was one of the alternatives. It may be suspected that the US companies that were also included in the options took advantage of this, and indeed Denmark also subsequently chose one of the US options. In Norway, the Norwegian Minister of Defence has indicated that he will contact his Danish counterpart in order to clarify what has happened. He also informed the Norwegian Foreign and Defence Committee of the new tasks. It is, of course, very good that Norway should act quickly and inform us of what has come to light. The fact that the same thing has not happened as a matter of urgency also in Sweden surprises us. It seems from the data in Denmark's Radio that Sweden has been hit harder by espionage. My question to the Minister for Defence is what action he intends to take in view of the information that has emerged in the media that the United States has been spying on, among others, Denmark and Sweden and how this affects future cooperation with the United States, given that Biden looks like a new President.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-99	Madam President, I would like In this context, we need to know what we are talking about before we draw conclusions too quickly. I am not going to comment on speculation in the media or things that occur in different contexts. On the other hand, I can say that Denmark has launched a study, which is based on what is perceived as information transmission in relation to contacts with Danish citizens. I can also say that we have been in contact with the Ministry of Defence in Denmark. I have spoken to the Danish Minister of Defence. I am invited to the Committee on Defence to tell you about what we can tell you about in this context. I do not know, therefore, whether there is really any basis for painting any kind of picture of our being passive. Our authorities are also working on the issue. But speculation should be avoided.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-104	Madam President, I would like Recently there has been a huge run of American soldiers on a number of different exercises in Sweden. It looks like a pattern of increased cooperation between the Swedish and US defence forces – a substantial rapprochement between our two countries in the military field. We see the same pattern in other countries elsewhere. I and many with me get the impression that the government would like to be present where it is happening in the field of defence policy and to sit at all the different military negotiating tables instead of perhaps having a slightly more neutral position. Sweden has a long tradition of being militaryly non-aligned, and it has served us well. However, with recent developments with more exercises and visits from the USA in particular, one wonders a little whether the government is abandoning military alliance freedom. My question to the Minister for Defence is: how often and how close can we cooperate with other countries and still consider ourselves to be militaryly non-aligned?
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-108	Madam President, I would like First of all, there is no running out of any country in our forests, in our waters or in our air. Everyone who is here is invited in a specially organized way, and there are government decisions in this context. Secondly, everything we do is based on parliamentary decisions with broad and clear majorities. It is not a question of any particular pattern here, but here it is a question of well-thought-out exercises aimed at increasing our military capabilities and our ability to act together with others and also at raising the threshold against potential antagonists. This is due to Russian aggression against Georgia. This is due to the annexation of Crimea in 2014. This is due to ongoing conflict in Ukraine. It is also due to military activities of Belarus. It depends on the structure of the Kola Peninsula. This is due to Russian operations in the North Atlantic and in the Baltic Sea, and it is due to hybrid scenarios and espionage.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-112	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. Sweden is about to lose its grip on the escalating violence, and for many of the criminals all the bars have been released. There are examples from all over our country, but today I want to highlight the escalating situation in Borås in particular. On November 3, a young man was shot dead on the street in the middle of ordinary citizens. This serious incident has been preceded by a number of attempted murders, shootings and explosions in various parts of Borås. In the last week, a number of store robberies have also been carried out in Borås and in Sjuhärad. The government has been in charge since 2014 and every year promised a strong commitment to break the trend. Yet, the trend is not broken by serious crimes. At the kitchen tables and at the workplaces in Borås we are now discussing the increased insecurity in the city. My questions to the Minister of Justice are therefore: What further measures does Morgan Johansson plan to implement to break the continued negative development of gang crime? And when will they enter into force? Is it not time to quickly investigate and implement the same measures taken by the Danish Government to combat gang crime?
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-117	Madam President, I would like No government has done more to serious organised crime than the government that I represent. We have made a large number of penalties and a very big effort on the police, where Borås has also received its own new police training where the first students go out this spring. There is a major project dealing with camera surveillance in a way that we have not seen before. I think we're up to 450 cameras now, and another 150 are coming up. It is about the development of police resources and also about their tools. We will continue to do this, and of course we are also looking at other countries and how they have done it. Ingemar Kihlström mentions Denmark. In the investigation mission that is now in place to look at what we can do further to tighten the penalties in relation to organised criminals, we are just mentioning Denmark as an example. Let us look at what has been done there, but perhaps also in other countries. We will continue to push this forward until we can crack this kind of crime.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-121	Madam President, I would like The pandemic has come back with full power. This is very worrying, and we must all help to reduce the spread of infection in society. The Minister of Finance has clearly indicated that money cannot and will not stand in the way of protecting people's lives and health during the pandemic. That is a very important and good priority. The longer the pandemic goes on, the more people worry about their job and their future livelihoods. Here, too, the government has taken a variety of measures, and they are also looked at. I still think that many people wonder how the Swedish Government has ensured that money does not stand in the way of protecting people's lives and health during the pandemic. And what does the government do to secure jobs and entrepreneurship during the pandemic?
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-125	Madam President, I would like There is a way to ensure that resources are available when the crisis comes. We know that sooner or sooner there will be a crisis with economic consequences. It is a matter of ensuring order and order in public finances. That is why it was important that we made sure to save in the barns during the good years, so that we could step into this crisis with the lowest public debt since 1977. It was also important that it had come to 350 000 jobs since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister. It is also about the fact that we had expanded the training opportunities so that there were 100 000 more training places. And we'll continue this way. The pandemic is now being prolonged and further action will be needed. Then it is important that we did not do as some wanted in the spring, namely to spend 100 billion a month or even more money there and then. Then we would not have had the opportunity now to continue supporting the economy through this prolonged crisis.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-128	Madam President, I would like During this pandemic, we have seen an aviation industry on its knees all over the world. This, of course, has consequences in Sweden as well. During the summer, the government has taken the opportunity to quickly investigate the closure of Bromma airport. For a long time it has also delayed investigations into the Arlanda Council and what happens to regional airports. Our regional airports around Sweden are on their knees right now. We see that an infrastructure that has been built up for many years is about to disappear. This could cost taxpayers an enormous amount of money in the long term.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-131	Madam President, I would like I thank you very much for the first general policy question to me ever. The flight is needed in certain parts of our country. It's quite obvious. In order to ensure social aviation, the Government has introduced a temporary public service obligation. It is well known in this House. These include Norrland and Gotland, where it is vital for life. The Parliament has also decided, on a proposal from the Government, on temporary state operating aid. It is about SEK 100 million, which can be given to owners of regional, non-governmental airports. But it is also a special effort of 75 million kronor to secure the ambulance flight, something that is clearly needed. The government will continue to take steps to ensure that Sweden can continue to function during this very difficult crisis. These efforts have so far been able to save – yes, in fact – some of the domestic state flights that have been needed and will be needed. The government will follow this issue very closely.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-137	Madam President, I would like Around the country, S-majorities at municipal level anticipate the proposal for new school elections, leading, among other things, to school children being bused across and across with unreasonably long travel times as a result. In Trollhättan, desperate children and parents have been driven over by political decisions, and more municipalities are likely to follow in line with the investigation that will soon be on our table and that the Minister of Education was on earlier here. All schoolchildren risk becoming tools with the government's proposal and are adversely affected by the failure of the last decades' integration.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-139	Madam President, I would like We in Sweden have an increasing school segregation that is bad for Sweden and bad for Sweden's students. It means that children and students in Sweden who grow up in different residential areas risk also going to different schools and growing up in different hosts. I want to see a Swedish school where children and students from different backgrounds get to know each other, go to the same schools and become friends and enemies as the individuals they are, not grow up as strangers to each other. Today's school election system has led to the segregation that we now have, along with a housing segregation. I will fight hard to break school segregation, and I will do so in such a way that children and students get a better schooling, not a worse one. With regard to Trollhättan, which Robert Stenkvist mentioned, I understand that Robert Stenkvist's party there is quite lonely. There, as far as I know, all parties have supported the proposal to ensure that children and pupils can have the chance to go to the same school regardless of the residential area in which they live.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-144	Madam President, I would like The Climate Policy Council has repeatedly called on the government not to pay unclaimed financial support for its release activities. I do not know how well the Ministry of Finance has listened to the Climate Policy Council. A recent review by the Stockholm Environment Institute shows that two thirds of the financial contributions paid out by the Government in the form of Corona subsidies have gone to fossil activities – not least to aviation, which has received billions of funding from the Government in several rounds. Madam President, I would like It may be reasonable to provide support for activities that are currently on their knees, but the support must be designed to help reduce emissions and reduce inequalities in society.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-147	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by repeating what Minister Ekström said here in the speaker's chair: Sweden needs flights. We are a large, elongated and sparsely populated country. We need the plane to keep the whole country alive. Therefore, during this crisis, it has been important to ensure the necessary transport to and from Norrland and Gotland. It is about the business community being able to operate there, but it is also about the need for materials to be sent and about healthcare transport. Of course, it is important that we take further measures to ensure a better climate and to reduce our emissions. Therefore, a very large part of the budget that I left at Parliament's table was a green restart package, the aim of which was to bring forward green investments and also increase taxation on releases. For example, those who buy large SUVs pay higher taxes, and you get a bonus if you buy a more environmentally friendly car.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-150	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask a question to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. Since the turn of the government in 2014, the government has worked purposefully and methodically to build up Sweden's defence. The security situation justifies this, as the Minister for Defence explained on a previous issue. In the coming years, therefore, we are facing growth that has not been seen since the 1950s. In this House, we are not going to hear questions about the defence being a special interest anymore. In order to strengthen Sweden's defence capabilities, cooperation with other countries has also intensified. After all, the freedom of military alliance cannot mean that we should not cooperate on defence issues. We have the host country agreement with NATO and new legislation for operational cooperation with Finland, which I particularly welcome as a tornado. That is why my question is this: can the Minister explain in more detail the ambitions of Swedish-Finnish defence cooperation?
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-154	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this question. Either you're in a military alliance, or you're not. Sweden is not part of any military alliance and is therefore non-aligned. Based on this principle, our collaborations are governed. We have the most far-reaching cooperation with Finland, where we also have operational planning beyond peace-time conditions. We participate very frequently in practice activities together. A flight exercise is currently taking place in northern Finland, where Swedish Gripen aircraft are participating. Army, aviation, marine – in all areas we have in-depth cooperation, information exchange and staff exchange. The ambition is to step up this cooperation step by step in order to be able to contribute as well as possible together to stability in our part of Europe, raise the threshold to potential antagonists and bring peace.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-158	Madam President, I would like The detention of the Finnish Immigration Service is a continuous child of mourning. The number of seats is always too small, and no bets are made to increase it. Recurrent escapes allow you to consider whether there are swing doors on the repository. The Finnish Immigration Service has repeatedly alerted all safety deficiencies that exist. The possibilities for controls and visits are severely limited. The presence of drugs is a recurring problem. But the criticism also comes from other quarters. The Ombudsman for Justice has for eight years repeatedly criticized the dysfunctional activities without the government having reacted. There are big questions about how the cooperation between the Migration Agency and the Prison Service looks like, and the legal rights of the detainees are not met, they say. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Migration: when will the government stop ignoring all the problems of detention?
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-162	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson is completely wrong when he claims that we have never done anything to increase the number of places on detention. It's just the opposite. During our time, the number of detention places has doubled. It is now over 500 seats. I myself have inaugurated a number of new detention institutions that have been built during this period. We have also expanded the existing detention facilities. So Jonas Andersson is completely wrong. There is also good cooperation between the detention centre and the penitentiary. It can sometimes be a problem that some of those in custody simply punish themselves by threatening, being violent or aggressive. In that situation, they must instead be brought into the prison system. Then there is cooperation with the nearby detention centres, so that you can cope with the situation. Of course, that cooperation will have to continue. We need to continue to expand the number of detention centres so that we can also carry out expulsions in an even more effective way than we already do today.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-166	Madam President, I would like A 16-year-old girl and her family came to Örebro from Syria in 2015. The mother and the three children, all of whom are under the age of 18 today, regard Sweden as their home. The mother was born in Egypt, where the family has now been given an expulsion order. It is a country in which the three children have never set foot. And this is happening during an ongoing pandemic. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs' report on human rights, democracy and the rule of law contains terrible information about Egypt, such as a lack of respect for women's rights and the widespread practice of sexual harassment. Domestic violence and rape in marriage are also not criminalised. According to the same report, children's rights are infringed. Violence against children is common, and child labour and marriages occur. A recent report has come in which it is examined how the Convention on the Rights of the Child should be implemented in Swedish legislation. In this connection, I would like to ask the Minister for Migration: in what way are the Minister and the Government's authorities working to ensure an equal asylum process and one, as regards the Convention on the Rights of the Child, child-friendly asylum process today?
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-169	Madam President, I would like I can't go into individual cases. It's impossible for me. But I can note that when the legal certainty of the Swedish system is evaluated by the international organisations that make such evaluations, we get very good reviews time and again. It is sometimes very difficult decisions to make. Each case is examined individually. You look at whether there is a need for protection or if there is no need for protection. For a great many people who come from war zones, it has been said that there is a need for protection. Since 2011, when the war in Syria broke out, Sweden has protected 180 000 Syrians. That is the greatest humanitarian effort our country has ever made, I would say. Each such case has also been tested individually. If, in some cases, applicants come from other countries, there is no need for protection, they must also be able to refuse, and this rejection must be respected after it has been tried by both the authority and the court.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-173	Madam President, I would like A wave of brutal and sadistic robbery is currently sweeping Sweden. When the Minister of Justice is asked about this, he repeatedly points out that his government has tightened 50 sentences. It's true, at least on paper. But the question is what has happened in the real world. I asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service how many months in prison have been sentenced for aggravated robbery in 2016 compared to 2019, i.e. the year before the sentence for aggravated robbery came into force compared to after. The answer I got was that the average penalties have been reduced by two months. The average punishment for aggravated robbery has thus become milder after Morgan Johansson's so-called punishment has entered into force. I assume the Minister of Justice is aware of this too.
i-5f3d9f27a8bed81c-176	Madam President, I would like I think everyone understands that you can't pull out just one crime and then compare it at two times. These may be completely different situations that the courts have assessed. One must constantly look at the mass of sentences, that is, how much prison sentences Swedish courts are now condemning in relation to the past. As I said, we have tightened up some fifty sentences. Last year, Swedish courts imposed prison sentences of over 10 000 years in prison. That is an increase of almost 30% in two years. It also explains why we are now filling up both prisons and detention centres. It doesn't matter how much Ludvig Aspling waves his head and says it's not like that. In fact, that is exactly what it is all about. The punitive measures that we have carried out have had an effect. It shows the mass of sentences.
