i-dd6b1b8f82ea029c-0	Madam President, I would like Ann-Christine From Utterstedt has asked me whether my view is that the differences in the number of deaths between us and our Nordic neighbours are due to the fact that we have different ways of registering them and whether we have any dialogue about starting to register equally. Ann-Christine From Utterstedt also asks what measures I intend to take together with the government to stop the spread of infection in retirement homes and to ensure that the elderly receive the care they need. She also asks whether I believe that the educational material on hygiene is a sufficient measure to stop the spread of the disease in the home service and whether more measures have been prepared. Finally, Ann-Christine From Utterstedt asks if I perceive that the number of intensive care places will respond to the need that will exist when patients who are ill in covid-19 need intensive care. The outbreak of covid-19 has hit the whole world. According to the statistics used by Swedish authorities, the number of confirmed infected people in the world on 29 April was 3 018 618 persons. According to the same statistics, the number of confirmed deaths due to covid-19 was 207 973 persons. This type of statistics is reported from the responsible authorities in each country. However, the way countries choose to register and report differs. This means that one must always be very careful to draw conclusions only from the statistics as such. Of course, it would be good if all countries' statistics were completely comparable. There is also a long-term effort to achieve greater comparability between countries within the EU. As regards the Swedish measures against covid-19, they aim to reduce the spread of infection and ultimately to protect risk groups, especially the elderly. The fact that the disease is now present in several nursing homes in the country is therefore very worrying. People living in retirement homes are generally fragile and dependent on the care and care of their staff. Thus, they cannot choose to keep their distance in the same way as others. It is therefore incredibly important that those responsible in the care of the elderly ensure that the staff at work are symptom-free and also ensure that there are functioning equipment and routines. The government has taken steps to provide all incentives for employees and employers to stay at home with the slightest symptoms. The Government has also introduced a national restraining order on all the country's retirement homes, which aims to reduce the risk of infection from visitors. Early on, it was clear that the preparedness of the regions and municipalities in terms of protective equipment was not sustainable in the long term. In order to increase the availability of the right equipment, increased domestic production and a government function for purchasing and distribution were required. The Government therefore commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare on 16 March to act as a national purchasing centre, and the agency has, together with the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness and the county administrative boards, established a completely new working structure. Although domestic production has now increased, there is still a shortage of equipment, so this work will have to continue. It is also related to the knowledge about how the equipment should be used. On 12 March, the Government instructed the National Board of Health and Welfare to provide information on how personnel groups should protect risk groups from infection. The training courses are estimated to have spread widely across the country. Over 93 000 people have registered, and by mid-April more than half had completed the training. On the fourth and final question, the National Board of Health and Welfare has established, on behalf of the Government, a national coordination for intensive care. On 21 April, intensive care places were available throughout the country, and thanks to the efforts of health care professionals, new places were created on a daily basis. Furthermore, transport capacity is available if patients need to be cared for in a region other than their home region.
i-dd6b1b8f82ea029c-7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for your answer. I know that the Minister has a lot of work to do these days, and I would like to thank him for the great work he is doing. As far as the interpellation is concerned, we know that a lot is happening every day in statistics and other things. Our country and the world are being hit more and more. In comparison with our Nordic neighbours, Sweden really stands out in the number of infected and deceased. So far 2,769 people have died in the suites of covid-19 in Sweden. This compares with the reported number of deaths in Denmark, where the figures show 484 persons. In Norway 211 people have died and in Finland 230 people have died. The care of the elderly slipped from the beginning long behind in the handling of covid-19-pandemin when all the focus was initially placed on health care. This has meant that staff have worked completely without protection, and the infection has spread uncontrollably among our elderly, who were the ones who would be protected from infection. Older researchers are critical of the fact that the authorities did not quickly realize that elderly care also needed more resources. At the same time, a government scandal is revealed where SKR has affected four authorities so that the requirements for protective equipment from these have been toned down. It's like playing Russian roulette with people's lives. That's beneath any criticism. However, the Minister for Social Affairs himself expresses that the requirements of the Swedish Work Environment Authority are what should apply. It is responsible but also contradictory. The authorities and the government do not seem to be on the same footing. Hallengren's Prime Minister also does not want to discuss who is responsible, and when criticism is made it is considered that it is not the time to point fingers at each other or take any political points. Madam President, I would like In these times I'm not interested in taking political points. I am interested in limiting, as far as possible, the number of victims that the pandemic is harvesting. To demand a responsibility when so many people are affected by the virus or die is not to take political points or to point a finger at anyone. It is to show respect for all loved ones who have now lost a loved one but also for all the staff who daily fight for all of us—a great and warm heart to all of you in all your frustration and sorrow! Madam President, I would like How will the Minister of Social Affairs manage to limit the spread of infectious diseases in elderly care?
i-dd6b1b8f82ea029c-14	Madam President, I would like My formal answer did not include any thanks to Mrs From Utterstedt for the question, so I would like to address one to her now in this way. There is indeed reason not only to debate this but also to discuss, reason and, for that matter, to demand responsibility. Of course, I have nothing against it, and I am absolutely convinced that this is not what the Prime Minister intends when he says not to point the finger. Of course, we will certainly bring to the surface all the problems that elderly care has faced for a long time. We're also going to help each other, and that's the point, isn't it? A lot of people are very busy. This applies, of course, to municipalities and regions and management functions there. For many weeks now, different types of staffing and crisis functions have been in place to ensure that the spread of the disease in society is reduced in the best possible way in general and, of course, in relation to the groups that we know are most at risk of serious symptoms. No one in these functions does anything else, I would say, but to devote their waking hours to reducing the effects of a virus that we have known for a few months. We're learning more all the time. Responsibilities, which I think will be more concentrated at some point, as regards how Sweden as a country, various authorities, actors and politicians and other functions chose to work, are one thing. To constantly act on the knowledge you have is not easy. But it's our joint mission. It is clear that a certain comparison can be made between countries. Undoubtedly, the situation on Swedish retirement homes is different from that on retirement homes in Norway. But you also have to decide which country you compare with, why and in what situation. There are different phases of this disease. Many countries have had so-called lockdowns. They look a little different, but the countries have been more or less shut down. It remains to be seen what happens when they try in every possible way to ease their restrictions, because people cannot for the foreseeable future live isolated, cut off, without going to work and school, and so on. I wish nothing but that it will work and that they can keep the spread of the disease down. As Anders Tegnell has said in many contexts – in fact, I believe that all disease protection experts agree – the virus will not disappear from our society in the next few weeks, but we will have to live with it. Then in the Swedish strategy we have chosen measures that we believe are sustainable over time and that people can hold on to. I think it is too early to say who has actually chosen the right approach. However, there is reason to really reflect on how the situation can be different in the elderly. As the pandemic is not over, there is every reason to do differently in the future, not least in all the regions and municipalities that so far have relatively little spread of infection. I am convinced that every time you end up in a situation where you can prioritise welfare, you should prioritise welfare. And when one prioritises welfare, elderly care needs to come up higher on the list of different welfare efforts. I think it is 135 000 men and mainly women who work as nurses and nurses in health care. It's a category that draws a huge load. And they do so under conditions that I think we should reflect on, even when it is not pandemic and crisis time. It is about hourly employment, wages, conditions, conditions and often too low or perhaps inadequate care training. If there is a lack of the necessary medical training and training in the hygiene requirements and routines that should apply in the business, this is of course an extra strain in these situations. Of course, demanding responsibility should be done in many different ways. But I don't think it serves anyone right now to say whose fault it was that the emergency stocks weren't enough. I would be happy to return to that discussion.
i-dd6b1b8f82ea029c-25	Madam President, I would like Staff must maintain good basic hygiene, and the employer must ensure that employees follow the guidelines in the workplace in question. However, there are major problems for home care staff when it comes to even having the opportunity or knowledge to maintain an adequate hand hygiene between visits. To remedy this, the National Board of Health and Welfare has provided training on basic hygiene practices, such as hand washing and the use of protective materials. It is said to be much needed because many workers in the care of the elderly, just as the Minister himself was, are completely lacking in adequate training. Regions and municipalities are held responsible by the government for the fact that local preparedness has not been sufficient. At the same time, the national plane has dismantled both defence and other preparedness. Protective masks and field hospitals have been discarded, and the number of intensive care places has been greatly reduced. At the beginning of the pandemic, we had 526 available intensive care places. It is a bit normal; during a pandemic, of course, it is a major disaster. In 1993, there were a total of 4,300 responsors in Sweden, including 900 in the military and 2,100 extra in storage. 25 years later, in 2018, there were only about 570 of them, 40 of them in the military and zero in the stores. The government also has a great responsibility for the poor level of preparedness. The last time I stood here in the speaker's chair was just at the beginning of the pandemic, and I hoped and prayed that we would not have to suffer so much from covid-19. Unfortunately, that was not the case. On 15 April, I drew attention for the first time to the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee, in which the Minister of Social Affairs took part, to the fact that the statistics showed that more people died than were intensively treated. Older people thus die in their homes without intensive care and without oxygen. Personnel testify to the elderly who have been suffocated to death by the virus in their loneliness. That is totally unacceptable. Several accommodations and the University Hospital have so far been subject to a stoppage because the protective material has been unsatisfactory or completely missing. The thoughts of Spain's elderly care personnel who eventually fled the workplace are getting horrifyingly close. The Minister of Social Affairs soon announced two weeks ago that requested protective equipment was allocated to the municipalities. Despite this, staff and relatives are alerting about continued shortage. Madam President, I would like Where in the system is it falling?
i-dd6b1b8f82ea029c-31	Madam President, I would like I would like to take the opportunity to really contradict Ann-Christine From Utterstedt on one point. The interpellant will be happy to devote the next post to explaining what the purpose is. It is not that there are older people who would have needed respiratory or intensive care but were denied this for any other reason than that the medical assessment has been that the person was too weak and did not have the ability to cope with intensive care. It is not health care that is provided or not provided, but it is also necessary to cope with it. I am not myself intensively caring staff in any way, but I know well that it involves an incredible strain on the body. You have to have a physical condition that allows you to cope with – cope with – intensive care. Therefore, it is a wrong connection to somehow begin to describe it as not having the necessary care and therefore people would not receive, for example, respiratory or intensive care. I find that unfortunate. It does not reduce the problem that Sweden has got a spread on retirement homes, but I think Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt does a little too simple connections. There are protective equipment, but we do not have the amounts we would like us to have. You can look at Finland if you want, but you can't look at someone else; unfortunately, there are no countries that have enough protective equipment to use it for safety reasons, in addition to the recommendations that exist. When I and others say that the municipalities today receive the protective equipment they need, this means that the National Board of Health and Welfare has a dialogue via the county administrative boards – it becomes impossible to contact 290 municipalities, and therefore you go through the county administrative boards – in order to get situational pictures of what it looks like in the municipalities and be able to meet the needs there, in the same way as you do with health care. You cannot then send material for the next few weeks, but if there is a deficiency that the municipality cannot meet itself, it will receive the material it needs from the National Board of Health and Welfare – but for the next few days. It's still where we are. With more purchases, with increased domestic production and an upscaling of domestic production – and now also with an increasing number of players on the track who procure protective equipment, not only the National Board of Health and Welfare, but also regions and municipalities – the conditions for a better supply are increasing. In combination with the fact that we can stop the spread of the infection and stop its growth, it is clear that the equipment is sufficient in a different way. I also think it is important to say that when care for the elderly needs protective equipment, it is important that we know which protective equipment is needed. I think we are beginning to know much better, but a few weeks or perhaps a month ago there was – quite rightly – a very great worry. It was a new virus that you would encounter, and you knew that you met risk groups, but at the same time perhaps not always the knowledge was there about what equipment you would actually have and when. You can't have all the equipment on you just to be safe, but you have to have the right equipment at the right time. I stand by that. This is also what the Swedish Work Environment Authority prescribes: What equipment should be used at what time? The employer who does not make sure that you have the equipment required at any given time violates the principles that exist. This is one of the employer's most important tasks and responsibilities. There can be many discussions about field hospitals, emergency stocks and sales stocks, and we will have that if nothing else later. A year and a half ago, an investigator was commissioned to look at what Sweden's preparedness in the area of healthcare could look like. An interim report has arrived and the final report is due within a year and a half. There is therefore much to do, but neither field hospitals nor large emergency stocks would probably have helped the situation in the care of the elderly.
i-dd6b1b8f82ea029c-39	Madam President, I would like The government has placed its trust in the EU, which has not proved very successful at this stage. Several countries introduced export freezes, for example. Since the pandemic began and the deficiencies in the country's preparedness became apparent, we have focused mainly on the problems of lack of protective equipment. However, discussing this does not help far if no protective equipment is available – unfortunately. We must not forget, therefore, that there are several other important elements that can be addressed in order to increase the level of protection in health and long-term care. In order to reduce the spread of infection, the focus should be on guidelines on how patients and patients are cared for and, of course, on extended testing. As it stands today, no protective equipment is used at all unless covid-19 infection is suspected, while testing can show a positive outcome despite the absence of symptoms. This means that health and care personnel have unknowingly and completely unprotected care and have cared for infected people. This, in turn, leads to the unhindered spread of the infection to the unprotected elderly. Madam President, I would like The government must now do everything it can to protect our elderly people from the upswing of the pandemic. What further steps do the government and the Minister for Social Affairs intend to take to achieve this?
i-dd6b1b8f82ea029c-43	Madam President, I would like As this is the last speech in the debate, I shall not ask back any question, but the fact that one would care for without any equipment before a test has been carried out is a task that I do not know about. Ann-Christine From Utterstedt has possibly read about or read about that task somewhere. I think you should be careful of the general descriptions. I am not saying that problems do not exist in the activities, but I think it is important to say that there is no such general picture. However, knowledge needs to be increased. Equipment should of course be available when you need it, but I think it is important to say that the hourly contracts we see need to change into more permanent contracts. It is about people not going to work if they have the slightest symptoms, which is something we in the analysis of both Sörmland and Stockholm have been able to imagine is one of the factors. It is people who are employed on an hourly basis and are not covered by the same security system as others. That is why I myself, and not least the party I represent, have been advocating for a very long time that people should have secure jobs, so that they are covered by the existing security systems. However, it is not only that people should feel safe, but the hourly employee is also constantly in new places. You need to have a fixed point in the business, not least in these times, so that you know the specific guidelines and recommendations that apply right there. I have been able to note that Södertälje and Uppsala are two municipalities that have now gone ahead and made sure to establish their timvikari to give them better conditions. I do not know where the claim that the government puts all its trust in Europe comes from. It is well excellent if we are involved in the procurements that are also there, but that is certainly not where we put our trust – that is why the National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with acting as a national purchasing centre since 16 March. That is why so much effort is being made to increase our own production, and that is why we are trying to connect operators and traders to ensure that we can scale up or redeploy production in order to meet the growing needs we see. We will need protective equipment for a long time to come, no matter how long the pandemic is going on.
