i-65e8761d252acdec-2	Mr President, I would like to I must start by saying that it is very nice to see Mr President again after I have been to Gotland for a month. In the Corona situation we are currently in, it becomes very clear what really supports Swedish welfare, namely the activities of municipalities and regions, including health care and care for the elderly. That doesn't stop us from having to look a little forward. That's why I'm going to talk about tax relief in the future. Right now we see that there are totally unacceptable differences in municipal tax rates between the municipalities that have to pay the highest tax in the country and those that pay the lowest tax. In fact, according to us in the Center Party, it is not reasonable. Facts 2020 is that the municipality with the lowest municipal tax is Österåker with 29.18 tax crowns or percent. After Österåker follows Solna, Täby and Vellinge in the bottom layer. As everyone hears, it is metropolitan municipalities or conurbations that have a favourable structure, and that is why they are located where they do on the tax scale. At the changing end, at the top of the tax scale, is Dorotea with 35.15 percent, followed by Bräcke, Sorsele and Vindeln. As everyone knows, they are sparsely populated municipalities in northern Sweden, far from the big cities. The tax gap this year is SEK 5.97, almost SEK 6. The Center Party thinks that this is completely unreasonable. In addition, the municipalities that have to pay the highest tax usually receive less part of the public service. It is quite clear that these regions and municipalities have poorer infrastructure and usually fewer government jobs. Another example is the state cultural policy, which you get much less part of in Sorsele compared to Stockholm. In practice, therefore, you pay more tax but you get less welfare. We find this unacceptable. Now the job has to go on to really correct this and ensure that we get a better system than we have today. The new cost compensation system, which we, together with the government and other parties, got in place on 1 January, is a step in the right direction, but it does not go all the way. It was based on very wise considerations and gives us a slightly more balanced system. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party believes that it is now time and urgent to carry out a review of the entire tax equalisation system. There are several reasons for that. One reason is what I have just highlighted: the huge tax gap. Another reason is that, after all, the new cost equalisation system represents only 10% of the total tax equalisation system. The other four parts make up 90%. Today, very much of the tax equalisation resources go to the growth municipalities, which are basically well placed for strong growth and a good economy. We do not think that is quite reasonable. Adding megatrends in the world – urbanisation, demographic development and to some extent climate adjustments – points out that we will need more tax equalisation in the future, not less. Possibly digitalization, the fourth megatrend, points in the opposite direction. The Center Party therefore wants to make a complete review of the tax equalisation system on the basis of some prevailing principles. The first principle that we want to assert is a guaranteed level of service throughout the country, that is, that no sender should be without a certain level of service. This is really needed, because regional splits are increasing. This means, in practice, that we will need more equalisation, not less. A second principle we think should be that the incentives for entrepreneurship, jobs and growth should increase in the system we should have. It has to pay off to work for growth. A third fundamental principle is that the tax equalisation system should be based on structural conditions, not on the level of ambition and not on the efficiency of the system. A fourth underlying principle is increased weight for the factor of sparseness and urban density. Without this, it is difficult to say that we can achieve a reasonable level of well-being in the sparsely populated parts of our country at all. Mr President, I would like to We know that it is very difficult to find a good system and completely impossible to find a fair system. We know that it is probably difficult to get acceptance for a new system straight up and down. Nevertheless, we do need to find a new system, because what we have today is not good enough. A fundamental factor is targeted state subsidies, which have been the government's favorite solution for a long time but which have a negative impact on the tax equalisation system. Mr President, I would like to There are other elements of the tax equalisation system that are important. Since I am a Gotlander, I am of course thinking of the additional costs of health care on Gotland. Region Gotland was the winner of the new cost compensation system, which compensates for certain factors. But it is far from the whole to create a long-term sustainable solution. Gotland's healthcare has several unique conditions. The most decisive factor, the combination of island location and a very small population, is there no compensation for. The island with 100 km to the nearest one to interact with makes it difficult and expensive. In addition, we have a large summer population, which everyone knows about. This may not be the case this year, unfortunately, but other years. Gotland is also a strategically important point for total defence. This requires that we have good health care skills on Gotland. The basic problem is that Gotland always needs to have a full emergency hospital. This means, among other things, that we need all the hotlines, and that is very cost-driven. The reason is that it is too far to the neighbour and that transport is both expensive and slow or weather dependent. The normal basis for a full emergency hospital is 150 000 inhabitants. Gotland has 60 000. This is what drives the cost in a completely unreasonable way. With the small emergency hospital, small-scale costs also come in the form of new medical investments. We need duplicate equipment for redundancy sometimes, we have expensive transports, as I have said, and we need staff who sometimes have to serve elsewhere to get an adequate volume in their duties. If we are going to pass the health care portal clause on equal care throughout Sweden, the state needs to go in and take increased responsibility for Gotland's healthcare. There is a need for either an island factor in the tax equalisation system or a targeted state aid directly to Gotland's health care. With this, Mr President, I and the Center Party are in favour of reservation 1.
i-65e8761d252acdec-26	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate is about the Swedish National Audit Office's report on municipal equalisation. I was going to say a few words about the Left Party's view on municipal equalisation and how it should develop. I agreed with much of what Lars Thomsson said, at least before the Gotland post when he went on to become a Gotland regionalist. When it comes to the large parts, where you have to see the whole of Sweden, you may not only look at Gotland's challenges, although they are important aspects to include. The Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that the municipal equalisation system is in need of more equalisation and better management and also how cost equalisation can be used to a greater extent to offset cost differences between municipalities. In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office recommends the Government to develop its existing cost compensation so that it more equalises cost differences that arise because municipalities have different areas, number of inhabitants and population conditions and are based on different class conditions. Such a levelling-up would, above all, benefit rural municipalities, which currently have a high tax rate, just as Lars Thomsson did. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that rural areas are under-compensated, that sparse compensation is too small and that further changes are needed in the system to create a level playing field. This is precisely the case with a level playing field, perhaps what it meant was that the cost compensation investigation tried when the investigation was launched – a bit more alike. What has often characterized municipal cost compensation is that you make some adjustments, not too big, in the direction that is needed, for everyone to get on the track. The Swedish National Audit Office also urges the Government to extend the cost compensation to library activities, which are statutory, and to weigh the pros and cons of extending the cost compensation to include more voluntary activities that are currently mainly tax-financed. It is primarily the cultural area but also the leisure area that can be considered. The Government is also invited to consider whether the structural contribution will be phased out and whether the Swedish Agency for Growth will be given the task of managing the compensation system. The management of the equalisation system may sound like a terribly sad thing, but if you look at the system today, it is seen that it is effectively managed by the various state investigations that have been very regularly added by various governments. Rather, I think we should consider what the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development was about, namely the need for a parliamentary committee or some kind of parliamentary office which regularly, every year, reviews the system of equalisation so as to reduce the twitchiness of the system and instead obtain an ongoing part. It is a little strange that we have a large economic system that floats somewhere alongside the entire Swedish Government. The Government states in the letter that it does not intend to take any action in response to the observations and recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office. We in the Left Party believe, unlike the government, that it is important now to move forward with further changes in the system based on the report. You also have to look at the income side, because if you only look at the cost side, it will only be one leg of the municipal leveling system that you look at. It's actually the little leg, too. If we are to create equal and fair conditions throughout Sweden, we also need to look at the income side. The recent changes are a step in the right direction, but if we do not take sufficient steps, we will not achieve the effects that make it equivalent between municipalities. Here, the Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that there can be quite large cost adjustments for many rural municipalities. That is why I and the Left Party believe that it is time to start a new review of the equalisation system and come back to Parliament with proposals for a developed equalisation system. Having said that, I am in favour of reservation 2.
i-65e8761d252acdec-35	Mr President, I would like to An equal welfare that benefits all citizens of the country is fundamental to a strong and cohesive Sweden. That is why we need to create a level playing field for welfare to be carried out throughout our country. If we want to create fair opportunities for citizens, we need to level out structural and economic differences between different municipalities across our elongated country. As has been said here before, the Riksdag decided last year on a new system of cost compensation, which applies from this year onwards. In the new system, municipalities with poorer conditions are more compensated than before. We strengthen those municipalities where, for example, home care needs to go a long way because it is sparse between the elderly and the regions that find it difficult to recruit staff because of their geographical location. One can see that Jämtland and Gotland, for example, came out best in the new system. At the same time, municipalities and regions are now being more compensated for socio-economic challenges. The most important factor for redistribution is demography. It is childcare, school and care for the elderly that are responsible for large municipal costs. Municipalities with a large proportion of children and older people need more resources than municipalities with a large proportion of the population of working age. By 2030 we can expect a 50% increase in the number of older people over the age of 80, but they are not quite evenly distributed across the country. It is municipalities in sparsely populated areas that will see the greatest increases, including the need for well-being. Then it is clear that Sweden needs a strong and far-reaching balance. It is simply an important policy for the protection of children and the elderly throughout the country. As highlighted in the Swedish National Audit Office's report, we can redistribute and equalize more. The system should be periodically reviewed and updated in order to remain accurate. We are looking at a new review of systems when it has been in force for some or a few years. Mr President, I would like to Equalisation is therefore important, and it is absolutely central to me as a social democrat. However, the overall resources of the local government sector are also essential, not least in terms of the costs that are expected to be higher when we have demographic development with an increasing number of children and older people throughout the country. This places demands on welfare everywhere. There is therefore a need for substantial additional resources in the future. During the last term of office, we were able to add an additional 35 billion to our welfare, which is why 100 000 more people are working in our common welfare now compared to when the government took office in 2014. It is a development that needs to continue. As mentioned earlier, the Corona crisis places an extra focus on welfare needs. Costs are increasing, especially in the areas of care for the elderly and health care, and at the same time we may fear a great deal in the tax revenue of municipalities and regions in the future. Now that we are standing in the middle of the Corona crisis, it is also crystal clear what welfare is really about. It's about people's lives and health – really serious. The welfare staff are working hard to protect and care for our elderly and sick today. That is why we must continue to add to the welfare situation in order to secure it. We will ensure that municipalities and regions are now compensated for all extraordinary healthcare costs due to the Corona virus, no matter where they have arisen, as needed, simply. In addition, we have increased the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's framework by SEK 5 billion to buy and distribute protective materials such as mouthguards, but also equipment as ventilators, in addition to the municipalities and regions' own purchases. The state takes over the responsibility for sickness pay, which also means that billions of costs are removed from municipalities and regions. In the spring change budget, we also spend another SEK 20 billion on welfare, where SEK 12 1⁄2 billion is permanent for the coming years. It creates long-term prospects and opportunities for municipalities and regions to plan for next year too, so that they know that there are financial resources to pay salaries to nurses, nurses and teachers. We also have a high level of preparedness to do more if it is necessary to cope with welfare through this difficult crisis. Mr President, I would like to Now it is clearer than ever that Sweden needs to stick together. Then we also need to give municipalities and regions the opportunity to deliver the well-being that lays the foundation for security and development. A strong and fair redistribution will continue to be necessary for a strong and cohesive Sweden. We will have to do more in this area. I support the committee's proposal.
i-65e8761d252acdec-45	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Olovsson talks long and well about what the government is doing in connection with the Corona epidemic and the current situation. It is so far difficult to evaluate how things have gone. But Sweden is still doing relatively well to meet the challenges of the crisis. I think that politics has been fairly fast-footed by both the government and the parliament. However, what is to be understood in this situation is that, even before the crisis, we saw that welfare needed more funding. This was also the reason why the Left Party, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats took the initiative in the Riksdag to ensure that welfare received more money than the government wanted to contribute. It was about SEK 7 1⁄2 billion, which can be compared to the government's SEK 5 billion. This turned out to be a foreplay to a real welfare crisis that came around the corner and which actually puts great strain on our municipalities and regions. As Fredrik Olovsson explained, the state will go in and assume increased responsibility for the costs associated with the Corona epidemic. More money has also been promised to municipalities and regions, which is basically good. At the same time, however, it is likely that this will not be enough. Although SEK 15 billion is a huge investment, tax revenue will be reduced as a consequence of the economy now backing down. At present, we already have underfunded welfare. If you look at the state budget, you can see that in practice the government is planning cuts in welfare. My question to Fredrik Olovsson is: Do you think that this SEK 15 billion will be enough? Will more money be needed for the local and regional sector? Lars Thomsson was interested in targeted and general state grants. It is very important that municipalities and regions receive general state subsidies so that they can decide for themselves what they do with the money and that the money is not divided into different targeted initiatives.
i-65e8761d252acdec-49	Mr President, I would like to I am absolutely convinced that for a long time to come, not only in the acute crisis, we will need to increase resources for municipalities and regions to the welfare activities – school, health and social care – from the state level. I am absolutely convinced of this, not only because of the Corona crisis, but because of the underlying demographic developments in which we have many children and old people at the same time. And it is children and the elderly who drive up the costs that municipalities and regions have for school, care and care. It is our view that this is a long-term commitment and we see that this development will continue in 2030 – 2035. During this period, we will need to give priority to welfare before other efforts, even after this more acute crisis. Then it is incredibly difficult in such a rapid course of crisis to make forecasts of exactly how much money different activities need and what impact economic developments have on tax revenues. I think we should have a great deal of humility about this. Given the rapid course of crisis, there will be more guesses than forecasts. But our message is that we want to provide the resources needed to take prosperity through this crisis. Then we will face the demographic developments that we see the years after. For us, this is an extremely important issue and something that we give a very high priority.
i-65e8761d252acdec-52	Mr President, I would like to As we saw during winter and spring, the municipalities and regions planned for cutbacks after cutbacks. Had the Riksdag not stepped up and given municipalities and regions the money that the Left Party, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats made sure they got, these cuts would have been even worse than they were in the first stage. At the same time, we can see that welfare was not equipped for the crisis that we are in and that we have been in for a short time. It is, of course, difficult to guess how long the crisis will be and what effects we will have. In practice, however, it is still the case that the government is forecasting cuts when it is unable to cover up with new money for the expected reductions in tax revenues from municipalities, when we already know that welfare is underfunded. So we have two things that we must be able to do at the same time. We must strengthen the funding of municipalities and regions so that they have the equivalent amount that they would have had before the crisis. V i must also strengthen welfare and ensure that more people can work in the care of the elderly and in the care sector to help in this type of crisis. It is very clear that the SEK 15 billion will not be enough to do so. I understand that Fredrik Olovsson cannot stand here today and promise any money. But I think it is very important for the government to be clear in its signal to k ommuner and regions. I am very concerned that, when we have crossed the first phase of the crisis and are beginning to get track of figures and forecasts ahead, we can have a summer when municipalities and regions start planning for cuts in welfare, at a time when demography, as Fredrik Olovsson says, indicates that we actually need to strengthen welfare – not the other way round.
i-65e8761d252acdec-56	Mr President, I would like to We and the government are planning to continue to strengthen welfare. That is why we are paying large amounts for general government aid increases, and that is why we are planning to continue to do so – to meet the demographic needs that exist. This does not just mean that we need to ensure that there is more money in municipalities and regions. This also means that more nurses, nurses, doctors and teachers need to be trained. It is, of course, a whole in order to be able to respond precisely to demographic developments. Sweden is also exceptionally well equipped to do so. We have strong public finances that we can now use, both to safeguard jobs and companies, which are an important basis for us to have resources in the long term, and to safeguard well-being through large contributions to municipalities and regions. We are well equipped because we have been in order in public finances. It is clear that many countries across Europe are now looking at their situation of large deficits. V i is, of course, happy that we have been able to keep order and thus have a great strength in such a difficult situation.
i-65e8761d252acdec-58	Mr President, I would like to On 11 March, just over a month ago, I began my speech on municipal issues as follows: The EU and Sweden are currently experiencing a number of serious threats to well-being, economics and security. It is not possible to debate issues relating to the finances of the state and municipalities without pointing out the consequences that we may have to experience from the Corona virus, concerns about new large-scale flows of asylum and a threatening recession. Sweden enters this situation with record weak conditions: the fastest rising unemployment rate in the EU, the weakest economic growth in the EU and a very high unemployment rate for having just gone through a strong boom. On top of this, we have too many municipalities with very weak economies. ..................................................... Unfortunately, progress went much faster than any of us could have imagined. The situation in Swedish municipalities and in health care is now under extreme pressure. It is in the light of this that we shall see the issue of municipal equalisation and the particular opinion of the Moderates on this matter. It says: The issue of municipal equalisation and the need for increased general resources for municipalities and regions will be very important when the acute Corona crisis is over. The Moderates see this issue as one of the key to stimulating the economy and re-launching economic growth after the crisis, and that is also something we have pointed out in our draft crisis package. However, it is almost impossible to discuss in detail today the needs and optimal design of the equalisation system. We need a thorough analysis of the situation when we know how hard the crisis has hit the national economy. We will come back to this when the acute crisis is over. ..................................................... It is simply not serious to discuss in detail what the future tax equalisation between the Swedish municipalities should be like at the moment. Instead, there is now a need for government crisis support, as several people in this House have mentioned. There is a need not least for health care but also for municipalities, which will be plagued for a long time by falling tax revenues in the wake of increased unemployment – while costs remain or even increase. It is the Swedish municipalities that are always the last line of defence in a crisis. They are the ones who must guarantee people a livelihood when all the other ways out have fallen. At the same time, the previous increases in costs due to demographic changes, among other things, and a previous high level of immigration remain. For many municipalities, even before the Corona crisis, the situation was completely untenable. As I usually mention, the situation has deteriorated dramatically since 2015, when today's government took over responsibility. SKR, Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, reported in a comprehensive report in 2016 how, during the reign of the Alliance, there was a balance between tax revenue and expenditure for the local government sector and that the local government sector also reported stable surpluses, even during the financial crisis. In recent years, however, imbalances have increased. Now we see clean alarm reports that the municipality after the municipality in practice does not make the economy go together, and that was even before the Corona crisis. A certain consolation is of course the addition of a total of 7.5 billion that Håkan Svenneling mentioned earlier and which was the result of the Moderate initiatives in the Finance Committee in early January with the support of the rest of the opposition. But in the current state of crisis, this money will not be enough. Mr President, I would like to The basis of moderate policy and of our moderate budgets is always: the most important first. It has been our main message in all economic policy debates in recent years – that priority must be given. We Moderates said already last autumn no to free years, and we said no to the inefficient entry deduction for new arrivals. We cut back on aid, which today is far higher than the UN recommendations, and we saved on inefficient climate policy, excessive migration costs and pointless building subsidies. We also dismantled unnecessary authorities and instead invested in what is most important for taxpayers and most important for Sweden: the municipalities, welfare and security. We did so at the same time as taking important steps towards growth, increased employment, reduced taxes and reduced dependency on subsidies. You can do both at the same time if you give priority. Mr President, I would like to The spread of the coronavirus is serious in several respects, not just in medical terms. The impact on the national economy is becoming clearer, and this will hit the local government sector hard in a situation where it is particularly important for municipalities and regions to be strong. During the financial crisis, the Alliance government contributed very large sums to the local government sector, which prevented people from getting rid of staff. We secured the welfare activities in spite of the deep crisis. The same will be necessary in today's crisis. In addition, there is every reason to be prepared in the state budget for permanently prioritising the local government sector and welfare. And, as you know, prioritising certain parts also means that one must give priority to other things. If the government needs tips on savings, I recommend, as I said, the Moderates' budget exercise from last autumn, and we will come back with more in future budget movements. Mr President, I would like to In the years I have been responsible for the municipal affairs of the Moderates in the Committee on Finance, I have persistently warned, in each speech, that we will one day go into worse times and that it is then serious that the conditions are so much worse than they could have been. Let's see how it's turned out. Sweden already had the lowest per capita growth in the EU before the Corona crisis, according to forecasts, and we had the fastest rising unemployment in the EU as a whole. When the government of Löfven took office, Sweden was 12 in the EU when it came to unemployment, and even before the Corona crisis we had slipped down to 22 of the EU's 28 countries. Unemployment in Sweden rose even before the crisis fastest across the EU, and unemployment is now rising rapidly. The government has lost every chance of making important reforms to equip Sweden during the boom. The only thing that is still to Sweden's advantage is the relatively low national debt, which has been reduced under both bourgeois and social democratic governments. Sweden is now seriously weakened into a very uncertain future. We are entering a new crisis with extremely low interest rates that does not allow for any major stimulus that way, we are entering it with the EU's lowest per capita growth, we are entering it with the highest unemployment rate in the boom that Sweden has experienced in modern times and we are entering it with a very large exclusion. At the same time, we see major shortcomings in important social functions such as health care and justice, and many municipalities have an extremely tough financial situation. Priority has rarely been more important than it is today. With the right priorities, we can counter an unnecessarily large increase in public debt, strengthen health care and municipal welfare, and restart the economy through investment, incentives and reduced taxes. However, if we prioritise errors, the Corona crisis will have long-term serious economic consequences that are difficult to grasp, both for the public finances and for the hard-tested Swedish local government sector. As I said, prioritising something also means giving priority to things that are less important. Perhaps the current crisis will also make the government base realise the need for priority? I hope so, because then there are many good moderate proposals to take on board. Mr President, I would like to At the moment, all our focus in this House must be on dealing with the acute crisis, both in terms of disease protection and the socio-economic impact of the Corona crisis. In this work, we Moderates try to contribute constructive and well-processed proposals, which the government has fortunately taken on board in large part or in part. But one day the crisis is over, and then it is extremely important that Swedish policy learns lessons. It is quite clear to most people that the overall resources of the national economy have not been used optimally to prepare society for unexpected crises. Nor do we give priority to the things that citizens think are most important – health care, care and security. Of course, all governments and parties have joint responsibility for this, even if it has become significantly worse during the current government. If we are to be better at this in the future, it is also important that the policy is able to prioritise considerably better than it has done in the past. Two of the sectors that need to be prioritised are health care and municipal care, above all, for our elderly.
i-65e8761d252acdec-77	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the municipal levelling system. Even before the coronavirus hit Sweden, many municipalities were on their knees. While the government has implemented a reckless migration policy, the costs of this have been passed on to municipalities. The Swedish Democrats have long pointed out that the state must take greater financial responsibility for the costs incurred as a result of the management of migration and integration. Sweden is a large country to the surface – one of Europe's largest. Among other things, it is precisely that we are a large elongated country that gives municipalities different conditions to offer the basic service that residents have the right to expect. For sparsely populated municipalities it is a challenge to get the budget to go together because jobs are rarely enough. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats consider it self-evident that the equalization system should support sparsely populated municipalities. But we also have large cities, Malmö and Gothenburg, which receive huge contributions in the municipal equalisation system. Mr President, I would like to How could things have gone this bad? When the equalisation system was introduced in the 1960s, the idea was precisely to support rural areas, not the largest cities in Sweden. Something is fundamentally wrong when geographically well-owned cities with large groups of working age need financial support. Why does Malmö need more financial support than over 50 of the smallest municipalities together? There are certainly many reasons why Malmö would be bankrupt without the compensatory aid, and it should be in the interest of Sweden as a whole to work to ensure that Malmö does not remain a municipality that lives on subsidies for an incalculable future. For the municipal levelling-up system to function fairly, it is necessary that working-age residents in large cities actually work. A municipality needs tax revenue for its operations, and a large municipality like Malmö needs large revenues. In Malmö, the employment rate among adults is 67.8 per cent. This figure should be compared with Sweden as a whole, where the employment rate is over 82 per cent. It is very expensive for society that people with working age live on benefits rather than contributing taxes. Unfortunately, the situation is much worse than the employment rate shows. Last week, a report was released by the Swedish Entrepreneurship Forum called When is foreign born self-sufficient? The study is based on the fact that Sweden has the biggest employment gap between foreign and domestic born throughout Europe. Looking beyond the blunt tool employment rate, the self-sufficiency rate is more interesting. The self-sufficiency rate consists of four basic amounts, which in 2019 was 186,000 SEK. It is $1,500 a month gross — a modest level to cover the cost of living in a big city. The report states that a majority of people born abroad in working age have not achieved self-sufficiency in the period 1990 to 2016. In 2016, just over 600,000 foreign-born persons of working age were not self-sufficient. Highly estimated, 38 and 36 percent of individuals of origin in Africa and the Middle East respectively were self-sufficient in 2016. The corresponding estimates for natives and individuals from our Nordic neighbours were 73 per cent. The self-sufficiency rate is significantly lower than the employment rate. ..................................................... It is also possible to read this: a lot of local variations in self-sufficiency. Stockholm's labour market region shows a higher degree of self-sufficiency than the national average and Malmö is below the national average. ..................................................... Malmö is therefore below 38 per cent and 36 per cent respectively when it comes to individuals who can make a living. For Malmö, this certainly explains a great deal, and this is precisely what we should be questioning. We cannot continue with an equalisation system that helps to maintain this deep grave between those who are self-sufficient and those who are not self-sufficient. Sweden's welfare is based on the fact that everyone who is able to work contributes through work and by being self-sufficient. Mr President, I would like to Because of the Corona and the measures implemented by the Government and the Riksdag, Sweden is currently facing a huge economic challenge, both in the country and in terms of our commitment to the EU. The Swedish democrats see no reason to submit either a follow-up motion or a specific opinion in this situation, but I would still like to take this opportunity to say that we are not satisfied with the municipal levelling-up system. On the contrary – in the long term, we want to see the countervailing system fundamentally reviewed. It is gratifying to come out as the last speaker and hear that everyone here agrees that we need to get more people into work. I very much hope that we can jointly ensure that all those who are able to work get into work and make a living.
i-65e8761d252acdec-91	Mr President, I would like to We have been able to take part in this debate in regional policy descriptions. Among other things, it has been about wanting to strengthen an end of the country that you feel a great commitment to, for example Gotland. In this speech we were told that part of the country is not quite good enough and should be labelled as beneficiaries who are parasites on everyone else. I think this is very strange in a situation where Sweden is really trying to get together and see the whole country, all the people and our power together. How is it that a municipality like Malmö gets more resources this way than many others? Charlotte Quensel may be able to explain what happens when 8 000 people work in Denmark and pay income tax there that then returns to Sweden through a tax treaty. Does Charlotte Quensel think that this money should in any way not be returned to Malmö? Is it wrong that Malmö gets this money back through this system? If it is wrong that Malmö gets these resources this way, what other solution does Charlotte Quensel have? Do the Swedish Democrats want to rewrite the agreement with Denmark? How do you want to solve this problem?
i-65e8761d252acdec-95	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. I do not know if you can use this expression and get the money back, because they come from Denmark if I understand it correctly. If tax is paid in another country, it is not really so that Stockholm and other municipalities should account for it. Nor do I know whether the honourable Member believes that the people whom I took in my speech and whom I said do not work instead work in Denmark and pay taxes there. Have I misunderstood this, and is this the whole report I referred to? Is that a misconception? Are these people working in Denmark? Are they really self-sufficient and receive no subsidies? Have I and the report misunderstood the situation in Malmö?
i-65e8761d252acdec-98	Mr President, I would like to It is quite clear that Charlotte Quensel has no idea how the resources of the people who live in Malmö and work in Denmark then come back to Malmö through our tax agreement with Denmark. It is quite obvious that she either does not know or ignores the fact that this is the case. People work and pay taxes in Denmark, and Denmark then pays back money to Sweden because of this. It's part of our tax treaty. This money is then returned to Malmö through the tax equalisation system. This is a very important thing to know if you should discuss these things at all. However, I assume that Charlotte Quensel is not completely ignorant of this very important fact and that it is really more about speaking ill of a part of Sweden because there are political or ideological reasons to do so. While the rest of us in this House are trying to make sure that we keep this country together in a difficult situation, the Swedish Democrats are taking a different path. I'm sorry about that.
i-65e8761d252acdec-100	Mr President, I would like to It's not about speaking badly. In fact, I thought the Social Democrats liked tax revenue. For us to maximise tax revenues, people who do not pay taxes, who do not have a job and who are in a situation of great exclusion need to get into work. It would benefit the whole country if we did not have the large groups of people outside the labour market. That is why I am referring to this. I sincerely wish, with all my heart, that all people can earn an income and support themselves, regardless of their origin. However, I raised the report, and I stand by it. It shows a big gap – the biggest gap in Europe. I think that we should not have, and that is something for which the Social Democrats are actually allowed to take responsibility. The gap is there. That is not my report, and the honourable Member knows that.
i-65e8761d252acdec-105	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 1 on vehicle-related debts and vehicle goaltenders. The concept of a car goalkeeper is used for persons who, for various reasons, allow themselves to be registered as the owner of a vehicle instead of the real owner. By using a car goaltender, the actual owner of the vehicle avoids liability for vehicle-related taxes and charges because the payment obligation is the responsibility of the registered owner. However, car keepers rarely or never pay taxes or charges, and the state is thus deprived of large revenues. According to the Swedish Enforcement Authority, the total amount of vehicle related debts was close to SEK 1.9 billion at the beginning of 2018, and Sweden's ten worst car goalkeepers together own 15 000 cars. Despite the law that came into force in 2014, which would remedy the problems, organised crime around car goalkeepers is still a major problem. In addition to the fact that the criminals escape taxes and fines, the vehicles are also used as escape vehicles, rams and narcotics hideouts, according to the Police Authority. One way to prevent new car goalkeepers from being added or more cars getting owners in already existing goalkeepers is to limit the number of cars a person is allowed to own. However, careful, law - abiding persons should not be punished for what others cause. It is not reasonable, therefore, to limit the number of cars someone who behaves should own. Instead, car owners with some form of government unregulated debt – whether they are parking errors, unpaid vehicle taxes or congestion charges – shall not be allowed to be the owner of more cars before the debts are settled. These persons shall be subject to a so-called ‘new ownership ban'. This makes the situation of those who want to use the system more difficult. Where a debtor still tries to register as owner of new vehicles, ownership shall be transferable to the Enforcement Authority until the debt is settled. This can be done either by selling the vehicle by the authority or by otherwise regulating the debt of the debtor. The Swedish Democrats also believe that a regulation should be introduced which means that a person with a coordination number can own no more than one car in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The police also need increased powers to intervene. This can be done by introducing a ban on the use of properly burdened vehicles, which would increase the police's chances of finding the vehicles. It would also provide opportunities for the police to take care of cars in debt, regardless of whether they are parked incorrectly or not. More preventive measures are also needed. In some countries it is common for authorities to make home visits to people who own abnormally many cars. The aim is to ensure that the cars are properly stored and do not use parking spaces. It is also necessary to check that there is no suspected illegal activity. Such a system provides security for caring people and is an excellent way to work preventively. On behalf of the Swedish Democrats, we are not afraid to get tough on criminals. One should not be able to travel calmly in a car with unpaid debts or use it for criminal purposes, but one should know that the police and the authorities are constantly on the trail. Nor should you be able to become the owner of new cars until you have done the right thing. It is a fundamental value in our Swedish society and something that we must protect. It is time for the government to take a holistic approach to the problem and do something – for real!
i-65e8761d252acdec-117	Mr President, I would like to A good society is created, among other things, by secure citizens. To be safe, you need at least a roof over your head, food for the day and a reasonably good leisure time. This has a lot of people at hand today. If you are put into debt or over-indebtedness, however, these pieces can cause major problems. One may not be able to afford to pay for one's home, not for food, and above all for leisure time. If a family is affected, the children get a much tougher start in life. Over-indebtedness does not have to be about being careless — being careless about it. It is often the case that you have suffered unemployment or illness or that you have separated. In the time we are living right now, additional people are at risk of this because they are at home ill a or with symptoms or because of unemployment. So this is something that can happen to anyone. If it goes on for a long period, there will be a risk of debt because you cannot afford to pay your bills. Mr President, I would like to Entrepreneurs are also at risk of falling into debt, especially in crisis situations such as the one we are currently in. We need businesses to grow and to have a society even after this crisis is over. That is why I think it is good that business-related debt can also become part of debt restructuring. Apart from what I have listed, there is another area that could put you in debt. It's about addiction. It can be alcohol abuse, drug abuse or gambling abuse. If you have an addiction, it is classified as a disease, and you have the right to treatment. We have now introduced this possibility. For me as a center party, freedom is important. It is important to be able to choose for yourself, and it is important that you take your own responsibility. This also applies when you have put yourself in a debt. But society and we in Parliament can counteract this so that more people do not end up in debt for various reasons. I'm thinking about companies that are rogue or who do things that aren't completely serious. It is companies that do not follow the guidelines that exist and the agreements that are made. We have done a great deal about interest caps and quick loans and when it comes to the re-regulation of the gambling market, for example. That is a good thing, and we need to follow this so that the serious companies still exist. But it is not by setting too many rules and making too many demands that serious companies should be disturbed when they are actually targeting those rogues who do not want to be in the regulatory market. Mr President, I would like to When all these things have happened for different people, when you have put yourself in over-indebtedness and when you finally get to the point where you have the possibility of debt restructuring, we from the Center Party think it is important that it goes quickly. It has taken a long time to get into these situations, you have lived tough and, above all, you have been affected, as I said, if you are a family with children. Then it is important that this economic rehabilitation is quick to take place. We therefore want it to go in three years instead of five years, as it is today, to have a debt adjustment. This is important for children and families with children. With this, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 3.
i-65e8761d252acdec-127	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for our reservation 7 in the report to be approved. At the beginning of the year Svenska Dagbladet published an article series, The Credit War. It was a series of articles about companies that have as their business idea to get their customers to trade on credit and live on borrowed money – something that for some ends in a total tragedy when they see no way out anymore. The Debt Mountain is growing and growing and getting higher and higher, and the strength to live sometimes runs out. Over-indebtedness is a major problem. It is a problem for the indebted and a problem for society. These are high costs and risks, but what are the costs and risks? Once the loan customers are stuck in the debt trap, the government guarantees that the loan companies will get the money back. It may even be a business idea for the creditors, according to Kronofogden. Is that why someone can quickly take large credits and borrow large amounts of money without collateral? Is that why many borrowers are careless with proper credit control? It is not just the debtors who bear witness to this. When the Swedish Consumer Agency has reviewed the industry, they have noticed that many companies do not carry out full credit reviews. So there seems to be little risk of lending. Society takes the cost and does the job when debts are to be recovered. Mr President, I would like to The enforcement officer estimates that there are about 400 000 over-indebted persons in Sweden. With relatives around, many people are affected. T rot's tougher regulation around high-cost credits such as SMS loans and the like, several of the lenders find ways around the regulatory system, and the problem remains. In 2013, more than 95 000 persons in the Kronofogden register had debts from before 1992. Some people are still drawn by debt from the crisis of the 1990s. Humans become eternal elders. Indebtedness risks becoming a life sentence. Prolonged indebtedness mainly affects those who are already short of money. They're people with little margins. The cause is often addiction, unemployment, divorce or illness – sudden and unexpected events. It can also be crises in society like the financial crisis in the 1990s. Then the big banks were saved, but many people are still drawn by debt after this. Now we have a new crisis because of the Corona virus. We do not want to see a new generation of debtors in 30 years' time who do not get rid of their old debts. Mr President, I would like to In the wake of the financial crisis, the debt restructuring act came in 1994. It was a relief in view of the economic problems that befell people. But there's more to do now. We can see debt not only as a personal failure but also as a market failure. In the investigation Over-indebtedness in the credit community? it is proposed to introduce a final limitation period such as the one in Finland. It would mean a final limitation period of 15 to 20 years depending on the circumstances and that the debtor should be able to see an end – that the debts will not last forever. I have heard voices from, among other things, the debt collection industry that this would lead to lower payment standards. I don't think the eternal debtors agree with that. Living on the poverty line for decades is not a dance on roses. Is the problem perhaps that we have too bad lending standards when loans are distributed to people who are unable to repay them? Mr President, I would like to It's not about people suddenly buying everything they want and then just not paying. It is about giving people an opportunity for a fresh start in life and a new chance after a long and hard economic struggle. It's about getting a second chance in life and becoming part of society again. A final limitation period is intended to ensure that those who have lived for a long time with government coercive measures are at least guaranteed that the situation can be resolved eventually and that everything can actually go in the right direction. Mr President, I would like to One group that is severely affected by over-indebtedness is children. The Ombudsman for Children has previously criticised the fact that children's rights have not been sufficiently highlighted. Nearly 40 per cent of those with debt restructuring have, according to the government investigation, out of the debt trap at home children. Many of these children are denied a dignified, normal upbringing. They can't afford football shoes for the training or the fee for the music school. To have coffee with your friends or to participate in other leisure activities that cost a few crowns can be a problem. This is not about Thailand's trips, mopeds or mopeds. These are small everyday things that are obvious to most of us. Mr President, I would like to Over-indebtedness also increases the risk of mental and physical problems and shorter life expectancy. This, in turn, risks spilling over on the children in these situations. Children worry and try to take responsibility for the financial situation. Research has shown that children who have grown up in socially vulnerable situations are more at risk than other children to be excluded themselves and in a similar situation in adulthood. It is necessary to highlight the child perspective in a better and clearer way when it comes to over-indebtedness, including in order to comply with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. There needs to be a proper analysis and improvement for children living with over-indebtedness. Let the children be children, regardless of the parents and the debts.
i-65e8761d252acdec-144	Mr President, I would like to How big can a car interest be? It can of course be different for different people. My car interest extends to the fact that we in the family own a car, and my interest is mostly about taking me from point A to point B. What's under the hood of the car is not of interest to me. However, I understand that there are people who have a genuine interest in cars, not just for transport but for other reasons. This can create the peculiarity that you as a person can own a number of cars. There are associations and other associations where one can cultivate one's interest in vehicles, which I welcome and think is good. But in addition to this, we have a group that has an incredible interest in cars. That group is among those who get coordination numbers with us and who have an incredibly large car interest and in a short time manage to become the owner of a variety of cars. It is not about 2 or 3 cars but about 10, 20 or even more cars. Unfortunately, for us as a state and for them as individuals, they seem to spend all their available funds precisely on collecting these cars. At the same rate, they are amassing a large debt that is linked to the cars they have just accumulated. My analysis of the last group is, of course, that there is no interest in vehicles but an interest of a different kind. They exploit a gap in our law that makes it possible to use this for other purposes and criminal contexts. In my view, we as a society are sometimes very slow to see quite obvious connections. It is of course the case that these people with coordination numbers, who sometimes have several coordination numbers, have no good intentions of owning all these cars, but from the start they have a completely different activity in mind. According to the police, there are over 500 coordination numbers with more than 10 cars registered with large debts of many millions. Of them, 20 have over 20,000 cars on them. These vehicles are used untaxed, unwarranted and uninsured and in most cases as tools in the activities of criminal gangs. In addition, of course, they do not pay any charges or congestion charges. The police estimate that about half of all burglaries and as many as 90 percent of all thefts of cars, boat engines and agricultural machinery are committed by foreign theft leagues. Of course, we can't have this. The problem of the coordination numbers should not be addressed in this debate, but the fact that a person who has not been granted a residence permit collects a number of cars collecting debts must be an obvious criminal problem that we could agree on and do something about quite quickly. However, we are able to create not only an inquiry into this, but also two subsequent investigations into a link that should be quite clear to all. The Government proposal 2019/ 20:67 Prohibition of use and display of vehicles with unpaid parking fees proposes that it should be prohibited to use a vehicle with unpaid parking fees amounting to more than SEK 5 000 if it has been at least six months since the last payment. The prohibition of use shall apply until the debt resulting from the prohibition has been paid. It is also proposed that a police officer or a car inspector take care of the vehicle registration plates if the use ban is breached. The bill will be discussed in the Transport Committee in spring 2020, and the amendment is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2021. I agree that these are great measures, but more is needed. Far too long theft leagues can use these cars for activities that we do not want. The government has also recognised this and – hear and be amazed – set up a new investigation to come up with more proposals. I welcome that, but the government and parliament have shown in these times that it can go very quickly if we have an obvious problem that we can solve. I believe that this is far too late and so far far far far too little to solve this problem. A person with a coordination number should of course have the right to own a car, but already there it should be stopped. One car per coordination number is enough. Vehicle goaltenders and vehicle-related debts continue to be a problem in our society. Vehicle goaltenders have also become an important tool for organised crime. A limit should therefore be set on the number of vehicles a person can own, and the Swedish Transport Agency should refuse to register additional vehicles on the same person at a certain limit. Another problem in this context is that the same person, who is not a Swedish citizen, can obtain several coordination numbers. This means that there are a number of digital persons with coordination numbers that do not correspond to any natural person. These, in turn, can own a number of vehicles, which is problematic. I therefore believe that persons with coordination numbers should be allowed to own no more than one car in Sweden. The government should therefore initiate a regulation that limits the number of vehicles a person owns and allows persons with coordination numbers to own only one vehicle. These issues should be adequately addressed within the framework of the mandate decided by the Government to be presented in September 2020. I believe that there is time and opportunity to include this in the investigation, and I hope that we can go along with it. I support Amendment No 2 tabled by the Christian Democrats.
i-65e8761d252acdec-156	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the proposal contained in the CU12 report. Having security in the private economy is the basis for a simpler life. I think we can all agree on that. The basis for this is to have a job and therefore an income. That is why it is important for us Social Democrats to invest in education for the whole of their lives, so that people can take the jobs that exist or feel secure in running businesses themselves. When it does not work for various reasons, it is important that there are workable social security policies so that people can feel confident about being able to pay for both food and housing. In the times we live now, it has become extra clear how fragile this can be. Many have been excluded from the labour market due to the pandemic. It is a scenario that is not desirable for anyone. It is, of course, always important to prevent people from falling into debt. One thing that we now discuss a great deal is what knowledge people bring to life. For example, we see that young men are overrepresented in debt. We don't want it to be easy to get into debt either. We have just recently decided that the preferred payment option offered should not be credit, with additional costs as a result. The system of credit information we have today is also tricky. They are not coordinated, allowing people to take several credits in a short time without a warning system. In this context, well-functioning budget and debt counselling in municipalities is also important. I will comment on some of the main points of the report and will try to keep it rather brief. The report touches on the important right to deleveraging in the event of over-indebtedness. When 2020 started, approximately 44 200 people had an ongoing debt restructuring. This is an increase of nearly 6,000 compared to the previous year. If you look at how many people currently have debts with the Swedish Enforcement Authority, you can see that there are just under 400 000 people, which is the lowest level in 30 years. This is a positive development that we shall follow closely. A number of measures have been taken in recent years to counter over-indebtedness. It has become easier to apply for deleveraging, and more debtors apply for and are granted deleveraging. It was also the overall purpose of the new debt restructuring act that now has some year on its back. In addition, new rules on high-cost credits, interest ceilings and new legislation on gambling have entered into force. The Swedish Consumer Agency has been tasked with strengthening municipal budget and debt counselling by developing recommendations and working towards deeper collaboration against over-indebtedness. The Swedish Consumer Agency has recently received a new assignment from Minister Lena Micko and the Government to conduct an analysis of the situation in the market for consumer credit and risks of over-indebtedness. The Government has also stated in the budget proposal for 2020 that it intends to follow up and analyse the measures taken. The report also focuses on the issue of vehicle goaltenders. Several previous speakers have been on the subject. In spring 2017, the Riksdag decided, after committee hearing, to announce to the Government that it would review the possibility of tightening up legislation against vehicle goaltenders. Since then, the Government has taken several different measures, including a targeted state grant for the period 2018–2020 to municipalities for the costs of moving, setting up and scrapping certain vehicles. In proposal 2019/ 20:67, the government also proposes a ban on use and marking of vehicles with unpaid parking errors. That bill, as Mr Larry mentioned earlier, is being dealt with not by our committee but by the Transport Committee later this spring. The Government decided in September 2019 to instruct an investigator to carry out a review of the legislation on the moving of vehicles. The mandate includes a full review of the law and regulation on the moving of vehicles in certain cases, in order to reduce vehicle-related debts and the presence of vehicle goaltenders and goaltender vehicles. In particular, the investigator shall examine whether the legislation should also apply to land other than street land, cover vehicles that are not misparked and whether liabilities other than fault parking charges may form the basis for a transfer decision. The investigator will also investigate whether, in certain cases, the three-month roll-out period laid down in the Act on the Moving of Vehicles should be shortened and whether the concept of the owner of the vehicle should be clarified. In addition, the investigator's mandate includes the following: 中 examine whether, and in such cases in what way, the police should be given increased opportunities to intervene against vehicles with vehicle-related debts 中 examine whether a possibility should be introduced to limit the number of vehicles a person can own if he/she has significant vehicle-related debts or has a large number of vehicles registered on him/her 中 analyse whether it is appropriate that a person can be registered as a vehicle owner in Sweden without having the right to stay in Sweden 中 investigate how the authorities are to handle a vehicle that has no owner as a result of a person indicating a false identity at the time of registration of the vehicle a proposal for an appropriate system for managing the costs associated with the removal and storage of vehicles; So there is a lot to be investigated and that one should look at. It proves that this is a major problem, as many have also mentioned here today. The assignment shall be reported to the Government Office by 1 September 2020. I'm looking forward to it. Mr President, I would like to This is an important debate and we have touched on many aspects of the issue. I am pleased that there is great interest in the committee in reducing over-indebtedness. I am also pleased that we know that the government is on track. Most recently today came a move on how we should try to reduce indebtedness in gambling. In the crisis, we are now seeing signals that gambling is increasing and that the gaming companies are aggressive. Most of all, I am pleased that we now have the lowest level of debt with Kronofogden in 30 years. It's a good development. We'll try to hold it. Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would like to support the proposal in the CU12.
i-65e8761d252acdec-181	Mr President, I would like to I would like to dwell a little on the length of the payment plan in the event of debt restructuring. When you find yourself in a situation where you need debt adjustment, you have usually been in financial distress for a long time and are in a vulnerable situation. The very point of debt restructuring is that you should be able to get back to a situation where you can manage your own economy and have a normal life in the future. We are a number of parties – the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals – who believe that the debt adjustment in five years, which is the general rule, is quite long. Instead, we would like it to last for three years and to have the possibility of a few months without payment within that period. But the majority of the committee, including the Social Democrats, has abstained from our line. There are 44 000 people in that situation. I would argue that they do not do so with ease. There are 44 000 people who are having a difficult time and find it difficult. I sometimes say that it's like sitting on the bench for five years and then in one way or another getting back into play. These people would benefit if the debt adjustment was for three years instead of five years.
i-65e8761d252acdec-186	Mr President, I would like to Larry Söder asks why we're not prepared to shorten the time. I will readily admit that I am not very familiar with the matter, as Larry knows. However, as far as I am aware, there is still some flexibility; one can make an assessment on a case-by-case basis and may have shorter times. That's a good opportunity. I think it might be tough to make it in three years. However, I believe that Larry Söder is proposing that there should be no-payment months even with the shorter proposal, which I have not understood as when I have read the proposal. The non-payment months, which still exist today, are important. As I said, there is severe pressure on the people who are in debt restructuring right now. You may need to have breathing space and have the opportunity to have a crown over, perhaps over the summer, to be able to have a vacation and maybe even for Christmas and New Year. As I understand it, there is flexibility in the system which is five years old. So it does not have to be five years.
i-65e8761d252acdec-191	Mr President, I would like to It is true that there is flexibility. You can decide on a shorter time. But then there should be different reasons for doing so. The general rule is that you decide that it should be five years for everyone. It is my own view that you should have some kind of free month of payment, even if the period is three years. That would be good. This applies, for example, to the summer months when there are other reasons why, for example, a family with children needs a little extra in the cash register. It makes me turn for that matter. I see that the Social Democrats do not have a fundamental problem in reducing the period to three years. They really think that it could be completely okay, but they have not agreed to the proposal because they think it is still so flexible. I would argue that this is not very flexible. It is a rule that is used with a few exceptions where one departs from the five-year rule. It's five years. I think it's quite a long time to sit on the bench. It's not just about the five years, but you've had a number of years before that with messy economy and when you've had trouble sleeping because you haven't known how to manage it. When you get to the deleveraging process, a lot of people may feel like, Pooh, at least I've come here. But then the person should sit on the bench, and then we as a society have stated that you will not be able to pay your debts and that we have to help in one way or another. In our reservation, we think it should go in three years instead. Nevertheless, I think I hear from the Social Democrats that in the future they may at least think that this could be a way forward. In the choice between five and three years, I think three years is better to be able to come back and have the opportunity to develop as a human being.
i-65e8761d252acdec-197	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I cannot give a direct answer to Larry Söder's question as to whether we Social Democrats are prepared to shorten the period, as he knows. However, I think that flexibility in the systems is important. After all, we have a pragmatic approach, and if there is any possibility, there is no reason to keep paying off for five years. That's my entry point in the whole thing. Unfortunately, however, I cannot give a concrete answer.
i-65e8761d252acdec-198	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate the really big weapons – nuclear weapons – and, above all, the need to disarm nuclear weapons, so that they can never destroy and destroy for humanity again. That we want a more peaceful world without nuclear weapons, many people can sign. The challenge, however, is that when we debate the way there, opposition always arises, always with reference to what is called a security policy approach, i.e. that we will be more confident if we have each one's weapon aimed at each other. As a left-wing party, I do not believe in such logic. Common security is mutual. It is a realization that the height of tension, more intensive exercise activities and a continuous armaments spiral are, admittedly, designed to create safety but often have the opposite effect. Only laborious work for peace, relaxation and disarmament will produce results in the form of increased mutual security. Swedish defence policy shall aim to build long-term security in our neighbourhood and in our surroundings. It requires that the concept of security be broadened to include more areas than the military, that we are an active party to disarmament and peaceful solutions in, among other things, the United Nations, that we safeguard our military alliance freedom and that we build security in community with our surrounding world. Sweden has no nuclear weapons of its own, nor is it under any nuclear umbrella such as NATO. Yet there is a slippage in the Swedish debate where some parties want it not to be excluded that nuclear weapons are used for Swedish interests, as some kind of ultimate threat. It is always very vague in its wording, but the aim is always very clear: to be able to approach the United States and NATO militarily. That is why they choose to be opposed even to proposals that would gradually take us to a nuclear-free world. What are the proposals I am talking about? Well, around the world there are nuclear-free zones where nuclear weapons are not allowed. These zones have been established in the Southern Hemisphere in particular and have contributed to relaxation and to rehabilitation. For a long time there has been a debate and proposal to establish a nuclear-free zone in the Nordic countries and the Arctic. It would send a clear normative signal to all nuclear powers and to unite the Nordic countries on a road to detour in the region. Of course, a nuclear-free zone in Europe would be better. Even Sweden, however, is not a nuclear-free zone today. There is no prohibition or obstacle for a nuclear weapon state to introduce nuclear weapons into Swedish territory. Today, Sweden has long-standing military defence cooperation with nuclear weapons countries such as France, the United Kingdom and the United States whose troops have been in Sweden for exercises. We also have military cooperation and arms exports to the unrecognised nuclear states of Israel, Pakistan and India. It cannot, therefore, be ruled out that any of these nuclear weapons states has an interest in bringing in or having nuclear weapons on Swedish territory in a future. A law is therefore needed that prohibits the introduction and transit of nuclear weapons into Sweden. This is our reservation No 2 about. Such a law exists today in our neighbouring country, Finland, and given our increased military cooperation with Finland, it would be a good thing if we in Sweden had the same kind of legislation as them. Then Finland could also feel confident that there are no nuclear weapons on either Finnish or Swedish territory. Sweden has a history of active work for disarmament in general and nuclear disarmament in particular. Through Sweden's history of military alliance freedom, there is a unique voice that should be used more clearly for a global nuclear disarmament. Of the three weapons of mass destruction commonly intended, biological weapons of war were banned in 1972 and chemical weapons of war in 1993. Although violations have taken place, the bans have had a major impact on warfare around the world. Now remains the third weapon of mass destruction, nuclear weapons. In July 2017, an important step was taken when the UN decided on a ban on nuclear weapons. Sweden took an active part in the negotiations and also voted in favour of the agreement that was adopted even if we gave an explanation of vote with objections. This agreement represents an unprecedented opportunity to change the international norm on nuclear weapons and eventually achieve total nuclear disarmament. The agreement closes the circle of bans on weapons of mass destruction. Nuclear weapons have been the only weapon of mass destruction which, until now, has not been banned in an international convention. We also see a great interest in many countries in signing the Convention. Today, 36 countries have ratified the agreement. It will come into force when 50 countries have ratified it, so it is not far to go. The agreement is based on the disastrous humanitarian consequences of a nuclear detonation. If a nuclear weapon comes into use again, there is no state or international organisation can do to deal with the humanitarian consequences. It is simply impossible for states and humanitarian aid organisations to prepare for a nuclear war. On the bourgeois side, it has been argued that the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention is contrary to the NPT. It's nonsense, of course. Next week the review conference of the NPT agreement, which takes place every five years, was due to begin. However, the conditions for a successful conference are worse than in a long time. The Corona crisis has put the review conference on hold. Let us hope that, in this particular case, the corona virus is a good thing and contributes to greater international cooperation and unity. The Left Party is today in favour of two Social Democratic motions. They are so good and clear about nuclear weapons and its consequences that even the Social Democrats are unable to vote for them. I hereby agree to reservation 2.
i-65e8761d252acdec-213	Mr President, I would like to I would first of all like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. I would also like to say that the Social Democrats and the Green Party have a special opinion under paragraph 1, Disarmament. Mr President, I would like to During the Cold War, there were nearly 70 000 nuclear weapons in the world. Today there are around 14,000. There have been changes since the NPT was introduced 50 years ago, and this has probably prevented similar disasters as Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Nuclear weapons are the greatest challenge of our time, and the Swedish government and parliament agree that we all want a nuclear-free world. Anything else would be irresponsible, not least show us those who grow up today and will become tomorrow's decision-makers. It is a great responsibility of the nuclear powers at all times to respect the NPT but also to have political courage with a peaceful world as a goal and to act responsibly, perceptively and visionaryly in order to reduce the number of nuclear weapons and eventually contribute to achieving a nuclear-free world. I will come back to this in a moment. But disarmament is not just about nuclear weapons. There are 1 billion small and light weapons circulating around the world. In 2018, 600 000 people were killed by deadly violence and 223 000 with small and light weapons. According to Oxfam, the cost of deadly violence in Africa is $18 billion. Those are horribly numbers. Just as a non-scientific comparison, I can say that some 300 000 people in the world are dying from the flu and 310 000 children around the world are dying because of the lack of access to clean water. These are large and extensive figures of mortal violence. We might also mention that 7 200 people are killed or injured annually by derelict mines. Half of all civilians affected by mines are children. Minors prevent communities that have been in conflict from being rebuilt, but above all they create terrible suffering for those who are maimed because of the damage. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Government has clearly declared Sweden's support for the establishment of a nuclear- and other-weapon-free zone, including their means of delivery, in the Middle East in line with the 1995 Resolution and the final document of the 2010 Review Conference on the Non-Proliferation Treaty. However, it is also important that the EU continues to stick to JCPOA with Iran when the US has chosen to withdraw from the agreement. It is truly incredibly strange that President Trump chose that path; President Obama managed to create some hope in the region thanks to the good cooperation of the European Union and the United States in shaping the agreement with Iran. One area that may not be mentioned very often but which is and will be important for Sweden's and the Nordic countries' security is the Arctic. I thank Håkan Svenneling for mentioning it. As climate change and ice melting continue, the major powers will do their utmost to find geopolitical land and water gains in the Arctic region. It is therefore important that Sweden stands up for reduced military escalation and escalation in the Arctic region. But it is also about other efforts from Sweden and the Nordic countries, such as ensuring safe trade routes and good communication control over the area. The Arctic is important for Sweden and the Nordic region. It is also, of course, a question of promoting the climate and ensuring that the indigenous peoples have good, fine and valuable living conditions. Mr President, I would like to At a time when Russia and the United States are far apart in terms of nuclear disarmament and China as a nuclear power is acting to gain geopolitical and economic power in the world, it is important that we in Sweden stand up for a nuclear-free world. The government's goal is a nuclear-free world. This is part of a long Swedish tradition based on broad and deep political commitment, diplomacy and strong technical expertise. Sweden is probably the country in the world that is currently doing the most for nuclear disarmament. Since 2014, we have, among other things, re-established the International Law and Disarmament Delegation, appointed an Ambassador for Nuclear Disarmament and chaired the Hague Code against the proliferation of ballistic missiles. We have also joined the humanitarian initiative on the disastrous humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons. We support the Stockholm nuclear disarmament initiative, which was followed up in Berlin in February. 16 countries are behind the initiative to get the nuclear powers to take steps towards disarmament at this year's NPT conference. We have also been strongly committed to the Korean Peninsula and to the preservation of the nuclear agreement with Iran. Sweden is Chairman of the IAEA. We are now setting up a knowledge centre on nuclear weapons and ensuring that Swedish expertise is strengthened and useful. We support the UN Secretariat for Nuclear Disarmament. The UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons was an important signal in a dangerous time. The rhetoric about nuclear weapons is being tightened, the nuclear weapons states are modernising their arsenals and there is a deeply worrying erosion of existing arms control agreements. Sweden voted in favour of the Convention in 2017, but stated in the explanation of vote that parts of its content were problematic and that possible signing and ratification should be investigated. In the explanation of vote, Sweden pointed to a number of problems with the content of the text, including the lack of a clear definition of what is covered by the ban, the lack of adequate provisions on verification of the compliance of the agreement and the lack of clarity of the link between the Convention and the Non-Proliferation Treaty, the NPT and the Test Ban Treaty, the CTBT. Mr President, I would like to The government chose not to sign the UN Convention against Nuclear Weapons in its present form. In addition to the problems with the text, there was no support in Parliament for ratifying the convention, which is a prerequisite for taking major decisions on Swedish security policy. We in Sweden become observers to the Convention and keep the door open for a possible future signing. There are currently more effective ways to work for a nuclear-free world. Under the current circumstances, the government considers that the focus on the NPT's ongoing review is the most effective – and possible – way of working towards a nuclear-free world. The Nuclear Weapons Convention is a historically important initiative to renew and deepen the negotiations on nuclear disarmament. The Convention prohibits the development, storage, transport and use of nuclear weapons and threats to the deployment of such weapons. These are concrete and necessary steps which also increase the pressure on nuclear weapons states to disarm. Mr President, I would like to The Nuclear Weapons Convention should be seen as an important complement to existing international frameworks and regimes on nuclear weapons, not as a substitute. Sweden was one of 123 countries that voted in favour of the Convention at the UN General Assembly in 2017. This was done with an explanation of vote pointing to parts of the Convention that needed to be answered or supplemented. Today, there is no majority in Parliament for ratification. The ambition of the Social Democrats and the Green Party is to work towards clarifications and complements that enable Sweden to ratify the Convention.
i-65e8761d252acdec-226	Mr President, I would like to The special opinion of the Social Democrats and the Green Party in the report and also in Mr Niemis's speech argue for the forces of the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention and why the Convention is an important complement to existing regulations and frameworks. At the same time, the Social Democrats and the Green Party state that they are working towards the clarifications and complements that Pyry has in mind and that Sweden is doing so in order to be able to ratify the Convention in the future. It is basically a good thing that we still have it as some kind of long-term objective on the part of the government parties. I think it is positive. But there is one argument, both in the particular opinion and in the argument of Mr Niemis in this House, which I think is weak and somewhat strange. It is that there is no majority in the Swedish Parliament for ratification. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I share the view that Sweden should not sign agreements and conventions unless there is a parliamentary majority for it. But there is nothing to prevent the government parties from pushing for a majority. I think that the government parties Social Democrats and the Green Party have completely withdrawn from the Convention when they do not even say clearly that they want to sign it, but are constantly hiding behind the argument that there is no majority. If you listen to Moderate Hans Wallmark, you hear that his commitment to Sweden joining NATO has not been silenced for a second because he does not have a majority in the Swedish parliament. He drums on every day for Sweden to join NATO, regardless of what the Swedish parliament's majority says and not. In fact, social democrats and environmentalists should do the same when it comes to Sweden signing the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. Every day you should argue much harder and more clearly in substance for your own policy. Pyry Niemi! How can the majority of Parliament be an argument for not having a policy of their own when it comes to signing the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention?
i-65e8761d252acdec-231	Mr President, I would like to I thank Håkan Svenneling for the questions. Yes, the fact that there is no majority is an argument. But the main argument we have put forward is the argument of the special investigator, namely that there are ambiguities in the nuclear convention itself and in the connection with the NPT and the CTBT. Sweden gave an explanation of vote in connection with the first signing; we saw weaknesses in the basis and content. This was also negotiated very quickly at the end, as Håkan Svenneling well knows. Because of these shortcomings, updating, discussion and, above all, analysis were needed in a Swedish and an international context. So I do not think that Håkan Svenneling is absolutely right that we should hide behind the fact that there is no majority. It's an important part. But the most important thing in this context is, of course, that the content of the Nuclear Weapons Convention is fully maintained. We have said that it is a good complement to the NPT, the CTBT and other things in order to build an even stronger nuclear-free world. We will continue to work on these issues. It is clear that if there are other parties in the Swedish Parliament who are willing to reflect in the same way, and who may have been totally opposed to this in the past, we are naturally happy about it. Finally, I do not wish to comment on what Håkan Svenneling said about Hans Wallmark. But Håkan Svenneling knows very well that the Social Democrats and the Green Party do not want to join NATO. We're not interested in that at all. We have no interest in being led by NATO. We're free from it. We don't want to be under Macron's or Trumps's control. We have that kind of security policy agenda, as Håkan Svenneling well knows. From there, I take my step back and just say: Do not confuse us with Hans Wallmark and the Moderates on this issue.
i-65e8761d252acdec-238	Mr President, I would like to There are points in the explanation of vote given by the government when it voted in favour at the UN when the Convention was adopted. I hope that the Convention can get started by being ratified by enough countries to enter into force and that Sweden participates as an observer and pushes for the adoption of the challenges contained in the Convention. It is good that the government and also Pyry Niemi here now make it clear that the purpose is one day to sign. I think it is positive. I would nevertheless like to point that out. As far as Pyry Niemi is concerned, with nuclear umbrellas coming in from other countries, NATO membership and the like, I appreciate the clarity that Mr Niemi shows. But I believe that the government would benefit by clarifying it in writing once again. Now the government has announced that it intends to send a letter to Parliament about a number of military cooperations. Military cooperation includes a number of nuclear states and NATO in this context. Here it would be good for the government to make it clear that the Swedish side is not under any nuclear umbrella. It should also be made clear that none of these military cooperations is about using nuclear weapons on behalf of Sweden, not in any scenario and not in any way developing the technology and the like. Today there is a gap. The third hatch is what I was on. It does not currently have legislation, which means that it can still be allowed for a country to bring nuclear weapons onto Swedish soil. There are some statements that say that you do not allow it. In practice, however, there is no legislation in the same way as in Finland. I think that a Social Democratic-led government that stands up for the work on nuclear disarmament should present such a legislative proposal to Parliament. Then we know that there are many parties in Parliament who are faltering, but then the parliament will have to vote down the law. Nevertheless, the government should be able to stand up to that.
i-65e8761d252acdec-243	Mr President, I would like to As Håkan Svenneling well knows, we make our decisions independently. We're not part of any military alliances. This is also the situation at present in the Swedish parliament. So there is a majority in favour of this. We are very happy that this is the case. It has also served us well for a number of hundred years, I would like to emphasise. I don't think Håkan Svenneling should feel a concern that we will turn away from that line in the future. It is important to point that out. Håkan Svenneling is also well aware that it is the government that makes the decision regarding, for example, the presence of other countries in Sweden and the entrance when it comes to entering with military or other types of ships, aircraft and other things. There the government has a clear mandate to say whether they are nuclear bearers. It is also quite clearly regulated. Let's see what it's gonna look like. I'll bring the recordings from Håkan Svenneling. I think someone from the government is also listening to those arguments. I'm pretty convinced of that. It is now a very important part of the democratic process in Sweden. I guess it's happening digitally, like most things right now. I would also like to make it very clear that we are not standing up for NATO membership. The military alliances, discussions or collaborations that exist for Sweden, this year above all together with Finland, is something that we feel we have support for in the Swedish parliament. But there is no support for what Håkan Svenneling suggests, that we should go deeper into NATO cooperation. There is also no support for this in public opinion in Sweden, nor in the Swedish Parliament, as we know at present. Thank you for a good debate.
i-65e8761d252acdec-249	Mr President, I would like to I do not need to mention NATO. The Left Party's Håkan Svenneling has already done so. Mr President, I would like to It is precisely these days that some of us members of the Riksdag, together with diplomats and representatives of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, would take the last joint action to represent Sweden together at the planned review conference, which is held every five years to safeguard the so-called Non-Proliferation Treaty. It is a conference that would have started in late April and held a couple of weeks into May. The NPT has been in place for around 50 years and is a central basis for preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Sweden, with different governments with different political orientations, has been active in non-proliferation. It is also important that the official nuclear - owned nations are involved in this particular work. Now the review conference does not come to an end, at least not at the moment. It is not because of the absence of nuclear threats, on the contrary, but because of the current pandemic. There is cause for concern about global developments. North Korea has not exactly been oblivious to its ambitions in the nuclear field. The People's Republic of China is another key player. In our neighbourhood there is Russia which has dangerous frivolous rhetoric which the men of power in the Kremlin use with threats of the use of nuclear weapons. There is also modernisation of the warheads in Russia, and Russia is the country with the greatest ownership. Some are very close to us in our immediate vicinity of the Kaliningrad River at the Baltic Sea. It is a force when, in broad political agreement, we can mark Sweden's commitment to nuclear weapons and non-proliferation. In the run-up to the Review Conference, there has been a consensus between government and opposition. Mr President, I would like to Precisely because, in the name of unity, it has been so unfortunate and wrong for the Social Democrats and the Green Party to engage Sweden, as the bearer of a narrow and small government coalition for so long and against better knowledge, against what other parties have said, in what is described as the UN's ban on nuclear weapons, something that does not include those countries that have nuclear weapons – something that has always risked undermining important cooperation, including the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and something that has clearly been a straight track into a dead end. In the summer of 2019 it was finally announced that Sweden does not intend to sign and ratify this convention. It came after an investigation and after a debate with many critical remarks. There is reason to note what the committee is doing in its report, which is now on the table of the House: the committee supports the government's decision. Although the former Foreign Minister came up with the information, the current holder of the post, Foreign Minister Linde, has been even clearer in retrospect. I quote a statement she has made: It must be written in such a way that it leads forward and not backward. Well, that's exactly what a few of us said right from the start. On a direct question whether it was the right decision not to sign is the answer of the current Foreign Minister: It was the right decision. It was preceded by analyses and investigations. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to However, a separate opinion of the Social Democrats and the Green Party states, and this report also reads: The ambition of the Social Democrats and the Green Party is to work towards clarifications and complements that enable Sweden to ratify the Convention. Mr President, I would like to Is a no a no or a yes a yes? Government parties cannot engage in any form of double accounting on such important issues. A clear, consistent line is assumed by government-supporting parties even if they have a weak mandate for their minority in the Swedish parliament. Either one should honestly do as the Left Party does and continue to push the question instead of regretting the fact that it has apparently not been possible to achieve a parliamentary majority, or one should stick to what the Foreign Minister has said in answer to the question: Was it the right decision not to sign? The Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Swedish Government said: Yes, it was the right decision. Therefore, there is reason to recall this: Sweden will work in a structured and long-term manner on disarmament issues. It is a central Swedish interest that our country is a credible security policy partner in an increasingly uncertain world. The preservation of the rules-based multilateral world order is more important today than it has been for decades. It is also a cornerstone of cooperation on disarmament issues. It is of great importance that Sweden's commitment to disarmament focuses on established cooperation for disarmament and non-proliferation. It is particularly important that the Non-Proliferation Treaty is not weakened or ignored. It is now important that the government – and clearly the government parties – learns lessons from dealing with the issue of a so-called nuclear ban. Cases of this magnitude must be handled with careful analysis and good preparation. For Sweden's security and prosperity, long-termism must always be sought in our country's foreign and security policy.
i-JkHS6wHuJD7fB1mogmxGY3	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister of State Jennie Nilsson and Minister of Labour Eva Nordmark. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-65e8761d252acdec-262	Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis strikes hard at companies and jobs in Sweden. Measures have been taken by both the government and the parliament to help the business community, but clearly what has been done by the government and support parties C and L is not enough. More is needed. If it is done too little now, we can have mass unemployment, and we can also delay the recovery after the crisis. More than 100,000 jobs risk being lost in the short term if the government continues to slow down. What is needed is direct aid to companies that have lost a large part of their turnover. If we provide direct support, thousands of companies can now survive instead of perishing. It's urgent! I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs whether he and the government will introduce direct support to save businesses and jobs in the way that, among other things, the Moderates have proposed. Yes or no?
i-65e8761d252acdec-266	Madam President, I would like This crisis is unique in its kind. It is both broad and deep in a way that we have never seen in peacetime. In addition, it is threefold: it is difficult to obtain its inputs and therefore sometimes has to close down production. Sometimes it is about the disappearance of general demand. Specifically, it is precisely services that require human contact that there is no demand for. It is against this background, Madam President, that we have taken a large number of measures. Hundreds of billions of different liquidity-enhancing measures as well as direct aid to businesses have been allocated. Is this enough? I think it is important to be humble at this point and say that no action is excluded, for a very simple reason: we are still at the beginning of the economic crisis resulting from the Corona crisis.
i-65e8761d252acdec-268	Madam President, I would like It may have to be seen as an answer but perhaps not to the question that was asked. I believe that if, at this point, the Minister for Enterprise continues to sit on his hands, thousands of businesses will perish and perhaps more than 100 000 people will be out of work unnecessarily. Now is the time to act, provide direct support and save businesses and jobs. I repeat my question: will the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government introduce direct support to save businesses and jobs as proposed by the Moderates and others? Yes or no?
i-65e8761d252acdec-270	Madam President, I would like In a very uncertain time, I think it is important to present proposals when they are ready to be presented. I understand, of course, that we are in a troubled time, and I welcome the commitment that exists in Parliament to take further action. But it is also important to remember that although Sweden has very strong public finances, it is important to set different measures against each other so that we use our resources both over time and here and now in the best way.
i-65e8761d252acdec-273	Madam President, I would like On a daily basis, entrepreneurs testify that the government's various crisis packages have been too late and inadequate. The general view is that the government, against better knowledge, saves on gunpowder. The government seems to have a dangerous overbelief in how easy it is to kick off the economy after the pandemic when tens of thousands of companies have already gone bankrupt. One simply seems to lack understanding of what it is like to run a company. Direct aid for companies with significant turnover in Denmark and Norway is broader, simpler and more than 15 times larger than the government's rent compensation. How does the Minister for Economic Affairs of Swedish entrepreneurs justify that the government has not done more for their survival?
i-65e8761d252acdec-276	Madam President, I would like This crisis is unprecedented, but also the measures taken by Parliament and the government are unprecedented. Just take the short-term work that is in place and which is currently estimated to cost around 50 billion. It is a calculation; surely it will go up even more before we are done with this. We don't know when it'll end. The government is prepared to take further action, because we know that it is important to help in this situation. I understand, and I think I'm starting to think, that the political conversation is back on a normal level. But I think it is dangerous to think that we should now engage in basically banging each other in the head politically. If further measures need to be taken, we will do so step by step, and we will present them when they are ready and not on the basis of short-term political points. These measures will help to alleviate the crisis we are in the midst of.
i-65e8761d252acdec-278	Madam President, I would like It is good that the Minister for Economic Affairs is considering further measures, but it is a little comfort to entrepreneurs that the government is considering supporting them later. Direct support is now needed. It's not something you can sit and incubate until further notice. Countless small businessmen will have time to take down the sign before they see a glimpse of the government's actions. Does the Minister of Economic Affairs think that he and the government bear a responsibility for it?
i-65e8761d252acdec-281	Madam President, I would like The fact that we are in the midst of a crisis that is not only serious for our country but for our whole world is unambiguous. It is against this background that we have introduced a large number of measures that are also used very diligently by entrepreneurs. When making such efforts, it is also important to ensure that the support goes where it should and not too broad or in the hands of cheaters. It is supposed to meet the many companies that today need help because they both lack demand and sometimes do not have inputs. We will continue to work intensively to support our companies and mitigate the impact on jobs and entrepreneurship in our country.
i-65e8761d252acdec-284	Madam President, I would like The current crisis has shown that there is a great need to stay at home. We have also been asked for telework to a large extent. Then it is incredibly important to have a good connection throughout the country. In the midst of this crisis, the Swedish Board of Agriculture has gone out and said that support for broadband will be given priority. The broadband in the rural programme came about under the alliance government and has been very important, especially in order to achieve the tough goals for expansion that we have. Now it turns out that operators and associations that have applied for support but have not received it will not receive any support if the Swedish Board of Agriculture gets what it wants. In his answer to a written question, Minister Jennie Nilsson says, "We will urgently prepare the question of an amendment to the rural development programme and then hand the amendment to the Commission for approval." .....................................................
i-65e8761d252acdec-288	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Rickard Nordin, for a very good question! I would like to start by being clear about the rural development programme: it is a programme that has been edged by many problems throughout the programming period. There have been delayed IT structures and very many and small programme points. I think there are 1 300 budget lines, many of them very small, distributed across 21 county boards to manage. The fact that we have problems and challenges is known for a long time. However, given the situation that has arisen, the Swedish Board of Agriculture has taken responsibility for making proposals on how to deal with the budget deficit that has arisen. We will prepare and come back to these proposals once we have had a closer look at them. It's too early to say anything about it right now.
i-65e8761d252acdec-291	Madam President, I would like For us, the fact that operators and associations who have applied for support and expected support but because the Swedish Board of Agriculture has been tough in its handling now would be completely unsupported is totally unacceptable, especially given the need for telework that exists right now and seems to be able to exist for quite a long time. Let me rephrase the question. Is the Government behind the Swedish Board of Agriculture's proposal, or does it have any other way of looking at the issue when it comes to providing more support for broadband roll-out in order to achieve the objectives that we agree on jointly?
i-65e8761d252acdec-293	Madam President, I would like I share Rickard Nordin's view that it is extremely important that we have good broadband coverage in Sweden. Therefore, we allocate money to broadband in several different accounts. One of them is the rural programme. The current situation with a deficit of SEK 900 million for the rural development programme has meant that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has put forward a proposal that freezes parts of things that have not been handled or paid out. I think it is important that we take a serious look at it in the light of the programme change that is being made. Either we approve that programme change, or we must have another one. No matter what we do, it's gonna hurt.
i-65e8761d252acdec-295	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson. Morgan Johansson! This is a photo of Garid, 15 years old. This is a photograph of Garid's sister Sandra, six years old. Both live in Enskede in Stockholm. Garid came to Sweden at the age of two. Sandra was born in Sweden. They both go to school in Enskedeskolan. They play football in Enskede IK. A few weeks ago, the Migration Board decided that Garid and Sandra and their mother should be expelled from Sweden. Since Friday, more than 20 000 people have appealed to the Migration Agency, Stefan Löfven and Morgan Johansson to stay in Sweden. Since 1 January this year, the Convention on the Rights of the Child has been incorporated into Swedish law. I ask myself: where is the child perspective when an authority wants to expel two children to a country with which they do not have the slightest connection? Morgan Johansson! Something obviously went wrong here. Or does the Minister of Migration believe that this expulsion is compatible with the Convention on the Rights of the Child?
i-65e8761d252acdec-301	Madam President, I would like I think everyone knows that Sweden has taken a very great deal of responsibility when it comes to refugees and asylum seekers over the last five years. One example is everyone who fled the war in Syria – here Sweden has given protection to 175 000 Syrians. Sweden is one of the countries that has given the most protection and done the most throughout the EU to ensure that people fleeing from war and oppression have been able to find refuge, and I am fundamentally extremely proud of that. That being said, Sweden has a regulated immigration of refugees. This means that we do not have free immigration, but we are examining whether or not we have the right to asylum. That order must be maintained. In fact, the Left Party was pushing for us to have a judicial review for this. I cannot interfere in individual matters and will not start doing so now. I can only say that it is important to uphold those criteria and those principles. If you have asylum reasons, you can stay, otherwise you have to go back.
i-65e8761d252acdec-304	Madam President, I would like I would urge the Minister for Migration to read the letter that ended up on the Minister's table on 20 April. It is from Enskede IK, the football team, from Hammarby and from the school in Enskede, and it is backed up by over 20 000 inhabitants. I want the Minister for Migration to at least understand the case and ask whether it is compatible with the child's perspective to expel two children who are firmly anchored here in Sweden and who have the school and football team and all their friends here. If not, act!
i-65e8761d252acdec-306	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm knows very well that I cannot act on individual matters. Then I'd break the form of government. It is the courts that decide in these cases. Should I start going in and reconsidering individual matters, I will not be in this Chamber for very long, because then I will commit a constitutional breach. I can't do that. I stand by the principles that apply, that is to say that we must be able to demonstrate that we have the right to asylum. If you haven't, you have to be prepared to go back. That goes for everyone.
i-65e8761d252acdec-308	Madam President, I would like Sweden's entrepreneurial life is in crisis. The decline in demand in the economy has put many people's lives and livelihoods on the edge of the pot. For this no one in here is to blame, but it is up to us to alleviate the crisis. We Christian Democrats have proposed cash support for all companies that have lost a certain proportion of their turnover but are stuck with the same costs for local rents, machines and so on. This is about the same model that both Norway and Denmark have already introduced. Instead, the government has established aid which only applies to certain sectors and covers only part of the rental costs. This support has not had the intended impact, and many entrepreneurs have not been able to reduce their rental costs at all. My question is whether the government is prepared to do what we Christian Democrats are proposing and introduce cash support to all companies that have lost a certain proportion of their turnover. The proposals are there, and they are now needed.
i-65e8761d252acdec-312	Madam President, I would like The government has worked intensively to get quick proposals. I do not believe that we have ever before seen the speed at which proposals have been prepared, submitted to Parliament and decided here and also come out to companies. One example is short-term work, which is now forecast to amount to SEK 50 billion in support of employees and companies. Over 27 000 cases have already been decided there. We will continue to work intensively, Madam President, because we are still in the midst of the crisis and do not know how long it is. Even when and if we are successful in the fight against infection and in saving human lives, we know that the economic impact will continue. This is especially true as our world around us, such as Denmark and Norway, has closed and only now starts to think about opening up as Sweden has had it all the time. We continue to work intensively and do not exclude any measures to support jobs and entrepreneurship.
i-65e8761d252acdec-316	Madam President, I would like We are now getting a decent picture of which measures have worked and which have not. The government's entrepreneurial support has not worked. It would be good to know whether the government cannot imagine the model that we Christian Democrats have presented. Now is the time to act. That is why we Christian Democrats want to hear from the government on this issue by next week. Otherwise, we are prepared to act in Parliament together with other parties who also want to support this.
i-65e8761d252acdec-318	Madam President, I would like I do not really know what Camilla Brodin is basing her claim that this has not worked. When we look at how the companies have both applied for and been approved for many of these efforts, we see that there is both a huge interest and a very diligent work at the authorities to get these subsidies out. I have full respect for the fact that this is a very deep and broad crisis which means that companies will need help in the future. It is against this background that we do not exclude any action in the crisis we are in.
i-65e8761d252acdec-321	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Baylan. Children are always vulnerable in crises, so even under the prevailing coronapandemia. We can see, for example, that children in the adoption process and children born through international surrogate arrangements are particularly vulnerable. Not only is it difficult to get to the country; there are also many families that are stuck in the country. There are problems in obtaining the travel documents needed to travel home. SVT has also reported that children born through international surrogate arrangements receive less support and service than children who become Swedish through international adoptions. Children must always be protected at all costs, especially in times of crisis. The fact that they end up in limbo in the tracks of the coronapandemine is not acceptable.
i-65e8761d252acdec-326	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Arman Teimouri, for an urgent question! This has been one of the major problems. I do not believe that at any time in modern times we have seen the world shut down in the way we have now seen in terms of both transport and borders. This has meant that many Swedes, both children and adults, have been stuck in parts of the world where before they did not see it as a major problem to travel. We have tried, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its consular work, to do our utmost to help people get home. It has involved both logistical assistance, for example through guarantees to ensure that there are flights, and sometimes to issue permits of various kinds so that you can pass, for example, barriers or, for that matter, border controls.
i-65e8761d252acdec-328	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Yes, the question is complex. We know, for example, that the United States has stopped issuing passports to children born in the country. On the other hand, there is an opportunity for Swedish authorities to issue temporary travel documents in the event of an emergency. It should be used extensively at present. Much is urgent here and now, but the issue of children who are particularly vulnerable requires more focus.
i-65e8761d252acdec-330	Madam President, I would like I think that Arman Teimouri is absolutely right and that we should try to help above all those who are most vulnerable – children are often most in need. However, I also think it is important to remember that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is doing its utmost, but in a very complicated situation. We will continue to work intensively to help our citizens get home.
i-65e8761d252acdec-333	Madam President, I would like First of all, the new corona virus is a danger to people's life and health, but it also has serious consequences for the economy and jobs in Sweden. In this context, I would like to highlight a group that is particularly vulnerable, namely young people, especially those who have not got their first job. From previous crises, we know that youth unemployment can have long-term consequences. Many of the industries that usually employ young people now find it difficult to keep open, for example in the restaurant and hotel industry. When the first job is delayed, it risks affecting the entire working life. For many young people, summer work is the first step into the labour market. This year the Corona crisis risks putting an end to it. I put my question to Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark: what is the government doing for young people who have or will find it difficult to enter the labour market because of the crisis?
i-65e8761d252acdec-335	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Serkan Serkan, for an incredibly important question! To all young people in Sweden, I would like to say: The most important thing you can do is complete high school and educate yourself. The government is now making massive investments in education – at the University of Applied Sciences, Folkhögskolan, regional vocational studies and even the university. In a very difficult situation in the labour market, like what we are seeing now, it is clear that the first job is very important. For this reason, the government is now investing SEK 180 million in municipal summer jobs. The initiative is aimed at those who have just finished ninth grade or who are in or have just left secondary school and are subject to municipal activity responsibility. Only today we have given this task to the Public Employment Service. I also have an invitation to employers in Sweden: Give young people the opportunity – announce summer jobs!
i-65e8761d252acdec-338	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think it's very important that we get out of here and give young people hope for the future. What we are getting now is that many young people have lost hope of getting the first job and being able to enter the labour market. Therefore, it is incredibly important that we can give our young people a chance from here but also a hope for the future of a better life.
i-65e8761d252acdec-339	Madam President, I would like I really want to underline what Serkan Köse points out. The opportunity to get their first line on the CV and to support yourself as well as the freedom this entails is crucial in order to be able to feel confident in the future in a very difficult situation in the labour market, not least for young people. There's an important job to do. I am proud that we have been able to present these initiatives. We need to do more in a number of areas that are also central.
i-65e8761d252acdec-341	Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis is unprecedented, and the Green Party has the deepest understanding of the difficult situation of entrepreneurs. Companies are bleeding, bankruptcies are threatening, and problems are growing as time goes on. I would like to convey a couple of questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs from the business owner in Uppsala with whom I have contact. One of the entrepreneurs says: For us service companies where demand declines but does not die completely, short-term lay-off is a great solution. But there are some questions about flexibility and how the rules should be interpreted because it is very difficult to plan when the customer influx is uneven. What opportunities are there for companies to tackle temporary work peaks without the risk of losing all financial support? Another question I have received from entrepreneurs is why collective agreements are such an important criterion.
i-65e8761d252acdec-344	Madam President, I would like When this crisis started, the government focused on three things: combating the infection, saving human lives and mitigating the effects on businesses and workers. I think we can all see that speed is and is very important. Getting a system in place as quickly as possible and also retroactively from 16 March was extremely important. We have subsequently changed the regulatory framework from 1 May onwards. The aim is to provide security for both companies and employees in these companies and to ensure that jobs are saved, but also, of course, to make this as flexible as possible. Time can be reduced to varying degrees: 20, 40 or 60 percent. So, Madam President, we have tried to do both – strengthen security and create flexibility in the system.
i-65e8761d252acdec-347	Madam President, I would like The business community in Uppsala is engaged, and the Chamber of Commerce in Uppsala today writes in UNT that after Corona a restart is needed. A few of the issues raised are now ensuring that the county is able to manage its future supply of food, drinking water, electricity and energy and to improve the conditions for working for start-ups in the future. How does the government view the reboot after the Corona?
i-65e8761d252acdec-348	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for an important question! Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that we are not through the worst part of the crisis. People are still being infected and dying far too much. Our focus remains on combating the infection and saving human lives. It is clear that, at the same time, we must also start to think about how we support our business community when it comes to kick-starting and coming back once we are through the acute phase. But we're not there yet.
i-65e8761d252acdec-351	Madam President, I would like I turn to Minister of Rural Affairs Jennie Nilsson. In the strong spring sun, agriculture's annual cash cow is in full swing in the greening fields. Spring farming is underway in Sweden – so important for the farmer's economy. In the midst of a historical crisis, however, the individual farmer must not become ill. Then we have no muesli and no wheat flour for the bread this autumn. Vulnerability in Swedish agriculture and forestry is not new. Nor can it be traced to a pandemic, but it becomes very clear these days. Year after year, profitability is at risk, which means that food readiness is at a minimum level. The level of self-sufficiency is at a bottom level in Europe, and compared to other countries we are the lowest at the moment. We cannot afford that vulnerability in the future. So, the government, when will the long-term clear strategies to turn these levels from bottom levels in Europe and ensure that Sweden can make a living with food?
i-EWVURKvnwpCH2CDpQztRGD	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Cecilia Widegren, for the question. What has been raised by the questioner is a question that has been identified before. We are in the midst of a crisis, and I would like to stress that food security is working well. It does so because we are not alone in not having a high degree of self-sufficiency in Sweden. It is a problem and a challenge, or possibly an opportunity, that we share with all countries within the EU, for example, which means that we have a common interest in ensuring that exports and imports work. Nevertheless, we obviously need to work more to strengthen profitability above all, and we do so by, among other things, strengthening the degree of self-sufficiency in Sweden as well. For this reason, the previous government set up a work to develop a food strategy in Sweden. Just before Christmas, we decided on an action plan number two, where the focus areas have been regulatory simplification, skills supply, research, innovation and exports, to name a few.
i-65e8761d252acdec-357	Madam President, I would like In mid-March, the government announced the abolition of the withdrawal of the withdrawal. But now thousands of Swedes have seen that it was not true. It turns out that for a normal wage earner more than half the deduction remains. For those who, after all, still trust the government, it is, of course, a tremendous disappointment, not least for all those who are currently working very hard in health care. Many of them feel fucked. Madam President, I would like My question to the Government is: Why did the government say that it abolished the withdrawal when it actually did not do so?
i-65e8761d252acdec-359	Madam President, I would like When this crisis broke out and its effects became clear, the government began intensive work to mitigate the effects on both companies and employees, in such a way that it helps to reduce the spread of infection. In a situation where progress is so fast, speed becomes a very important factor. Against this background, we removed the Karen Day to both reduce the spread of infection and make it easier for employees. But we did so in such a way that it would not be so bureaucratic and an administrative burden on the Social Insurance Agency, but we could make this work at once. Against this background, we chose precisely this standard method so that it would go quickly and come into place at once and not be something that would come further ahead.
i-65e8761d252acdec-362	Madam President, I would like In these coronatides there are other basic needs that also need to work, and I am thinking of electricity. So my question goes to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. Today, Gotland is experiencing another total break, and before today's break we have had 18 of these in the last two years. It is, of course, absolutely devastating for Gotland's development. Business suffers, everyone suffers. Basically it is because we have two old and small cables from the 80's that are full. Only in the election campaign did Ibrahim Baylan promise to act on the matter. My specific question today is: Will the government act in the near future to secure Gotland's electricity supply?
i-65e8761d252acdec-365	Madam President, I would like It is important to remember that it is about cause and effect. Basically, it is about all Swedish companies and all Swedish households having access to the electricity they need. To manage the supply on Gotland there are two cables to Gotland. Each individual can handle the transmission based on the electricity needs of Gotland. Just as Lars Thomsson brings up, we have had a lot of power outages. But it has not been about the cables themselves, which is important to remember, but it has been about that Vattenfall, which operates these, has updated a transformer station. It has been a failure that has caused us to have recurring power outages. I don't know and I don't know if Lars Thomsson knows the reasons for the latest power outage, but the update has been the main cause. I said in the election campaign, which is important to remember, that if we agree in this Parliament on a new order, we are prepared to try it.
i-65e8761d252acdec-371	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Labour, who is responsible for health and safety at work. The government has a zero vision of death at work, and we are also behind it. Recently we heard that a nurse probably died as a result of caring for covid-19 patients. There are now a large number of notifications to the Swedish Work Environment Authority about injuries and incidents related to corona, which is a serious infection. Many will probably not even get it classified as work injury. People in municipal operations are now cutting and pasting together protective materials, as the National Board of Health and Welfare has prioritised care but not them in the first line.
i-65e8761d252acdec-376	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Pethrus, for a very important question! What the government has been working intensively on in recent weeks is to ensure the availability of protective equipment. Together with companies in Sweden, my colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs, has ensured that we have been able to switch production to domestic production of protective materials. The National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with being a national coordinator when it comes to purchasing and distributing materials. And the Swedish Work Environment Authority, which is under the Ministry of Labour, has created a fast track for approval to secure access. What we need to ensure is that each employer takes on the responsibility they have. It is ultimately the responsibility of the employer to ensure that staff have the equipment they need. All employees should be able to feel safe and secure in their work. The employer has a task to carry out risk assessments together with the local trade unions.
i-65e8761d252acdec-379	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. On Monday, together with the entrepreneur Sandra Casos, I had a meeting with our advisory group of female entrepreneurs to get more women to start, run and even own businesses. Of course the meeting was digital in these times. It was not entirely surprising that the meeting was attended by the current Corona crisis and its impact on entrepreneurship. We reviewed all the comprehensive support packages that the government has developed together with the Centers and Liberals. But what came out there is that it is difficult to get a comprehensive picture of all these measures that have been implemented.
i-65e8761d252acdec-383	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helene Hellmark Knutsson, for an important question! That's the way it is. The measures have also been presented at a speed that we have never seen before for decisions in Parliament and then through press conferences and other things. Our authorities have also been tasked with disseminating information about these. The government has now collected the information in one place, so I would like to take the opportunity here in the Riksdag to invite those who wonder what support and help is available in this very desperate information to go into the government.se/company. There we have gathered all the information about the various measures that the Government and the Riksdag have decided to just mitigate the impact on jobs and entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurs who are still wondering, go into the government.se/ company! That's where you'll find the information.
i-65e8761d252acdec-387	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson. The secondary school law is unfair, inhumane and unreasonable. A number of heavy referrals condemned it when it arrived, not least the Law Council, who believed that the border was reached. The Moderates have voted 'no' from day one. Those covered by the Upper Secondary Education Act have gone extremely badly. They are thrown between hope and despair, but in most cases there is only one long, prolonged expulsion. Responsibility rests extremely heavily on those parties, including the Social Democrats, who chose to vote through the law. Now several parties – the Center Party, the Environmental Party and the Left Party – want to change the law again as a result of covid-19. It would be as wrong as it once was to vote through the law. My question to the Minister for Justice and Migration is: can he guarantee that the government will not propose relief in the High School Act – yes or no?
i-65e8761d252acdec-392	Madam President, I would like No, we have no plans to submit any such amendments to Parliament. Maria Malmer Stenergard says that the young people have gone extremely badly as a result of the law. Then it should be borne in mind that if the Moderates had got what they wanted, the young people would have been expelled and thrown out again, perhaps to Afghanistan. It was the Moderates' option. We chose to give them a second chance. To those who have waited a long time, rooted in Sweden and attended school, we said: If you complete upper secondary school education, get a job, establish yourself here, keep yourself in the skin and do not commit any crimes, you will have the opportunity to remain in Sweden. This was the case for the group that was initially considered not to have grounds for asylum. With the Moderates' proposal, they would all have had much bigger problems than they have today.
i-65e8761d252acdec-396	Madam President, I would like Since the spread of the Corona virus took off and various restrictions were introduced, the pressure on the country's women's shelters has increased further. According to Unizon, which has over 130 member associations, the search pressure has increased by nearly 40% compared to before the crisis. On 19 July 2018, the government promised 50 million extra to the girls' and women's shelters. We could read a few days ago that Unizon's Secretary-General, Olga Persson, says that they have not seen the smoke of the promised money, which seems to have stuck in the bureaucracy. The money would have been very useful now that the number of calls is increasing.
i-65e8761d252acdec-399	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Angelika Bengtsson, for an urgent question! Unfortunately, we have seen reports – not only in our country but in many other countries, especially countries where there have been quite a lot of restrictions and where people are not allowed to leave the home – that the situation has led to an increase in domestic violence, violence against children and also violence against women. Against this background, we will continue to support the activities that exist in Sweden, in terms of both the women's shelters and the public's support for children and for women who cannot stay. We have no reason whatsoever to delay or otherwise ensure that the promised resources do not arrive. Of course, if this has happened, we will sort it out as soon as possible.
i-65e8761d252acdec-402	Madam President, I would like I have previously asked the Minister for Rural Development how Sweden can influence other countries so that they follow the EU's ban on cod fishing in the Baltic Sea. The government wanted to control catches on Swedish ships with surveillance cameras, and regarding other countries' compliance, the Minister referred to the European Commission. If there is to be a balance in the Baltic Sea, all countries must comply with the EU's fishing ban, so that the Baltic Sea can become a viable environment, both for fish and for Swedish fishermen. Member States cannot have different rules on by-catch of cod. Sweden has 20% while Denmark has 40%. The state's compensation to Swedish cod fishermen is not even SEK 1 000 per day to stay ashore. Some received a compensation of SEK 8 000 for a period of over six months. Why do the different Member States have different by-catch rules for cod in the Baltic Sea, and why does the State not compensate Swedish Baltic fishermen in a decent way?
i-SUU5JNX2JCJHDRLYkEB9fo	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Gudrun Brunegård, for the question! Swedish fisheries are having a very tough time; I think we can agree on this. It is challenged by a situation in which we have had to deal with a bad marine environment and thus reduce quotas, not only for cod but also for some other species of fish. It is herring stop during the play season, for example, and now it is also Corona, which means that you lose a large part of your sales to hotels and restaurants. I agree with the picture that it is important that we have common rules. That's why we work in Baltfish and push for consistency, for everyone to comply with the same regulations and for all countries to do the same. Camera monitoring, as mentioned, is an issue that is run within the EU and where we in Sweden are now proposing a voluntary attempt to ensure that we are on the track and well in the phase when rules may come from the EU.
i-65e8761d252acdec-410	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Rural Affairs Jennie Nilsson. It concerns food security and the ongoing outbreak of the virus. Sweden is under trial, and at the beginning I would like to give a thought to everyone who is toiling, suffering and facing distress and death. During the month of March we were met with pictures of empty store shelves, speculations and doubts about whether our food and household goods would be sufficient and also some questions about our self-sufficiency. We in the Stockholm region have so far been hit hardest by the virus outbreak in itself but also by tendencies to hoarding and empty store shelves. Regarding logistics and food security: what does the Minister for Rural Development see right now and in the future?
i-3GJLhzpz7rwaTpBE9QB931	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Markus Selin, for the question! A functioning food supply is central in normal times, but especially in times of crisis, of course. We were early in convening all the actors in the food chain to ensure that we have a common picture of both the situation and where the challenges lie. The common picture is that we have good food supplies and that flows of goods work when it comes to exports and imports, even if there are delays. However, there are logistics challenges. Consumers' behaviour is different, partly rightly, because it is wise to ensure that you have goods at home for a week or two. This is true in all times, but perhaps especially in times of crisis. We saw excessive bunkering behaviour for some time. Among other things, it was bunkered as toilet paper for a year, which may seem unnecessary. The industry, together with politics, has been clear and informed. I think information is the key here.
i-65e8761d252acdec-416	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to the Minister for Labour. Soon all sectors are very badly affected by covid-19, but I want to raise the crisis in the cultural sector. Sweden has around half a million individual traders, many of whom are freelancers. In addition, the government has encouraged many to become small entrepreneurs. Most clients today require, for example, that they have an F tax note, in this particular sector. Today's a-cassage system is poorly adapted to the current labour market, based on these conditions. There are many individual companies. When today's freelancers are forced to close down their businesses or rest them in order to get unemployment benefit, it means an emptiness for them. My question is this: would it be possible for individual traders to be able to carry on certain activities during a period of rest and still receive unemployment benefit? For example, it can be taking orders for invoices, keeping in contact with customers and marketing.
i-65e8761d252acdec-420	Madam President, I would like I thank Lotta Finstorp for a very important question. It is quite clear that this crisis has really hit many sectors, and the cultural sector is very badly affected and not least the people who work in it. For this reason, the government has worked very intensively to look at, for example, how we ensure that our security systems can better respond to the needs of these important sectors. Therefore, we also decided that the unemployment fund should respond better to these needs by allowing you to rest your business. There is currently work going on to see if we can do anything more in this part. We are not prepared to upset the principle of the work line. If you have unemployment benefit, you must be unemployed. However, I know that it has been highlighted from Klys, among other things, a discussion if you can, for example, maintain your website. It is this type of issue that we are now analysing.
i-65e8761d252acdec-423	Madam President, I would like My question today is addressed to the Minister of Justice. Today, information has been published in Aftonbladet that the government will shortly be presenting a study on more market rents in the housing market. The Tenants' Association has reacted very strongly to this, especially that it is coming at the moment in the very serious crisis that our country is in. Criticism assumes that this will create more concern and fear among citizens. My question is simply whether these data are correct. Will this investigation mission be delivered now, to be sneaked out during the Corona crisis? And what is the background to the government wanting to see higher rents in parts of the housing market?
i-65e8761d252acdec-427	Madam President, I would like It's no secret that we've been working on an investigation directive. It is part of the January Agreement. But I want to correct a few things. Firstly, this is not a proposal but an investigation directive for a change that can only come in a few years' time. An investigation will work on this first to complete a system. Secondly, this is not about market rents. In practice, this affects none of today's tenants, since it does not concern the existing stock but only new production. New production is about 1 per cent per year of the total stock. So what we are talking about is not something that matters to current tenants. It is important to say this precisely in order for people not to be afraid that we are now going to introduce market rents into the existing stock. So we do not. This only affects those who, so to speak, will only be able to access new apartments in a few years' time. And that, as I said, represents 1% of the stock, that is, new production.
i-65e8761d252acdec-431	Madam President, I would like This time of year we are many who are beginning to yearn for locally grown vegetables and sun-warm strawberries. But this year there are problems. The ravages of the Corona crisis mean that there is an entry ban, which stops thousands of seasonal workers from other countries who usually come to Sweden every year to work in agriculture. On 30 March, the European Commission decided that seasonal workers in agriculture are a group that should be exempted from the entry ban. This was also announced by Minister Damberg at a press conference about two weeks later. In order to save this year's growing season and our food supply, it is important that we ensure that the entry ban is no longer an obstacle for competent seasonal workers.
i-65e8761d252acdec-435	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Malmberg for the question. It is both important and relevant. Throughout the Corona crisis, we have had a continuous dialogue with the whole food chain with a view to removing barriers and finding common solutions. One of the issues we are now working intensively on is how we deal with the fact that you normally have a lot of seasonal workers coming to Sweden this time of year. Actually, regardless of what Sweden does at the Swedish border, one must still have a mental preparedness for that it will be difficult to get here in any case large volumes with people from other countries. That is why, no later than today, Eva Nordmark and I have had a meeting with representatives of the LRF, green industries, the social partners, the Public Employment Service and so on to discuss how to meet the needs that will exist. How do we work with all the job seekers who have now come out on the Swedish labour market? What tools do we have, and what might we possibly need?
i-65e8761d252acdec-440	Madam President, I would like Last week, as a previous questioner has also mentioned, we heard via the media that the Swedish Agriculture Agency is stopping planned support for broadband roll-out in rural areas for this year. No money will be paid out, except already decided. At the same time, we were able to hear the Prime Minister say today at the European Council that many of the new jobs that will be added after the crisis will actually be jobs that are done with the help of digital solutions. A broadband connection is therefore essential. After this crisis, we will not have the same society as we had before it.
i-65e8761d252acdec-443	Madam President, I would like Broadband engages and interests all ministers. However, I took this issue for myself because it was referred to the change that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has announced that it will do for this year because it has forecast a deficit of SEK 900 million, which of course needs to be covered, because it has to keep the budget. A proposal has therefore been made on how to deal with this. In this context, however, I would like to say that there are no differences of opinion on the importance of broadband deployment in Sweden. We have also budgeted for broadband expansion on several different accounts where the rural development programme has some. Furthermore, 95% of the total amount is either already paid or committed. So we are talking about a rather small part. Nevertheless, I would like to note that the proposal now put forward by the Swedish Board of Agriculture requires a change in the programme. We will prepare for this change in the programme. Nevertheless, I would like to look a little closely at both how it looks and what the alternative is to having it in this account.
i-65e8761d252acdec-447	Madam President, I would like Even before the Corona crisis, Sweden had extensive problems with growing exclusion. From October 2014, when Stefan Löfven took office as Prime Minister, until February this year, unemployment has decreased in all EU countries except one, namely Sweden. In addition, the IMF is now forecasting that the crisis will hit Sweden harder than our comparable countries by a greater increase in unemployment here, as we are spending less on saving Swedish jobs than our neighbouring countries are doing to save their jobs. Should the Swedish unemployment rate increase as the average in comparable countries, 100 000 people would not have to go into unemployment. The Moderates want to invest SEK 100 billion a month to save Swedish jobs.
i-65e8761d252acdec-451	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Malmqvist for the question. I am very proud to be able to tell you that, through the efforts we have made through the short-term lay-off system, the government can already save tens of thousands of jobs. Once we get through this crisis, we will be able to count over hundreds of thousands of jobs. If we only look at the automotive industry in Sweden, their subcontractors and those who have chosen to sign short-term lay-off agreements, we can see that we are up to over 100 000 jobs. The important efforts that the government has now made for a number of weeks, with the support of all parties in this Parliament, have an impact on jobs. And our main priority has been to save as many Swedish jobs and companies as possible, but also to ensure that no employees are left behind. That is why we are now also investing in labour market policy and the Public Employment Service and ensuring that unemployment insurance is strengthened.
i-65e8761d252acdec-455	Madam President, I would like The current situation with the Corona crisis obviously means that we must be innovative in countering the crisis in different ways. We are talking about being fast-footed and about flexibility in the various proposals that come both from the government and from the opposition, and I think we can continue in that spirit. We have previously talked about direct business support, about employers' contributions and so on. Another tool that the government has is the tax tool. We have about 300 small breweries in the country. They do not have the large-scale advantages of the big breweries, and they suffer a great deal in the crisis. From the independent breweries, there has been a proposal for differentiated tax legislation, which is also applicable at EU level. How does Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan view this introduction in Sweden?
i-Q1MeUv7CqJPaDgi5vGSt6V	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Annicka Engblom! Since this crisis is unique in its kind – I do not think we have seen the kind of broad and deep crisis for so many parts of Swedish business as we do now – we have wanted to take a large number of measures. Roughly speaking, general efforts often go much faster. One example is the reduction in the employer's contribution for up to the 30th employee of a company. It is possible to do it in a snap, and of course it also hits the breweries. It is the same with the short-term work that has been introduced. However, when you go in and do industry-specific things, it takes a lot longer, and in the crisis we have been in, the government has prioritised making just rapid efforts to save jobs and businesses in our country and mitigate the effects. However, we do not exclude any measures for future action, because we do not know how long this crisis will take.
i-65e8761d252acdec-459	Madam President, I would like The Corona virus is lethal, and so is our economy. Sweden risks mass unemployment if the government does not listen to us moderates and leading economists who are calling for much more and much stronger measures – and now. One industry that has not received much attention but which also suffers during the Corona crisis is Swedish professional fishing. The price of Norway lobster, for example, has plummeted when the exports of this species so important to the west coast have almost completely ceased while the demand for the restaurant industry has disappeared. The industry has asked the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management to act, but without hearing. The industry has also asked the government to act, but still without clear information. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for Rural Development, Jennie Nilsson, if she can guarantee the national co-financing necessary to enable the measures agreed at European level, such as still payments, to be extended to Swedish fishermen.
i-CpFNB5RqkWicjFhGHr5XUj	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Johan Hultberg! Yes, professional fishing actually suffers double – it suffers both from the situation as it has been before, with quota changes, and now many segments are hit very hard by a demand rate. We have had sectoral dialogues with the industry, and we have underhand contacts all the time. We have also been active and are following the work of the Maritime and Fisheries Fund in Brussels, and we have expressed our support for the changes that are now being made. It is also possible to make programme changes that could mean that we could, in a shorter time, benefit from support that we normally do not have in the Swedish programme. We are preparing these issues now, and we are doing so together with the industry. My ambition is that we will do everything we can to help Swedish professional fishing.
i-65e8761d252acdec-464	Madam President, I would like This report is based on five motions. Weapons of mass destruction are one of the most serious threats to international peace and security, Madam President. It is important that Sweden in times of increased polarisation and conflict around our multilateral rules seeks to assert, strengthen and work for the multilateral dissemination mechanisms we have. It is important that we assert effective and verifiable systems of confidence-building disarmament. Madam President, I would like Nuclear weapons are undoubtedly the weapons of mass destruction with the most devastating humanitarian consequences. Against them we have no vaccine, no quarantine and no intensive care to protect us. I will never forget my visit to Hiroshima. It's hideous and I can't let it happen again. We all have a responsibility to work to ensure that the world does not suffer this again. It is, of course, about developing our common security and dealing with threats from new nuclear weapons states such as North Korea or a more nuclear-like Middle East. It is also about developing a balanced, verifiable and credible and sustainable disarmament of nuclear weapons. Nuclear technology should not be spread to more states. Madam President, I would like Today we have a multilateral framework for global disarmament and non-proliferation – the NPT. It's 50 years old this year. We will focus on that and try to strengthen it. I myself have had the opportunity to participate in two review conferences, and I had hoped to participate in a third now in the coming week. I was in New York in 2010, when the states managed to gather to conclusions that meant that a number of further steps would be taken before the next conference in 2015. Even then I was there, and I could see how the world had changed in those years. Then Ukraine would have happened. The Russian voice sounded different and had a completely different role during that review conference than at the 2010 conference. We clearly understand the frustration about the state of the world, including in terms of disarmament. It is good that both civil society and Sweden and many other like-mind countries have tried to raise the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons. The humanitarian initiative is good and welcome. It could hopefully have been part of the review conference which I hope will nevertheless take place in 2020. But, Madam President, we have seen how the years from 2015 have not gone in a more confidence-building direction between countries. In our region we see how Russia is equipping. They are also equipped with nuclear weapons – also close to us – and even talk about being able to use them. There has been talk of limited nuclear use in Ukraine and in Crimea. We are seeing the renewal of tactical nuclear weapons and the development of new nuclear powers. The INF agreement has been eroded and has now been terminated. We are also concerned about whether the Start Agreement will survive in 2021 – a lot suggests that this will not be the case. The forthcoming review conference is, of course, also an important part of whether one will be able to hold or find ways to reach each other. It is, of course, a matter of creating the necessary climate of trust that was required for the NPT to enter into force 50 years ago with nuclear states and non-nuclear states as signatories. The world's tension has increased. We have seen new powers, and we have seen new muscles tense, not least Chinese. It is clear that this affects, and it is a reality that we must relate to. Against this background, it is crucial for our common security that we do not risk or destroy what we have built up and that we do not threaten the NPT or the IAEA, which is still perceived as a globally verifiable institution and which nevertheless has respect. Madam President, I would like We in the Center Party have for a long time a clear profile to work against nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction. We have worked against mines, chemical weapons and cluster weapons. For us, the goal is a nuclear-free world. However, we were prepared – also against this background – to test the extension of the humanitarian initiative, namely a ban convention. We affirmed that Sweden was involved and started these negotiations to see if it could be reached. We deleted the importance of a broad circle of states. We welcomed the fact that the Netherlands was one of the countries involved in the negotiations. We were clear that we should look at the results, and the result should not be placard politics. Nor could it be anything that threatened our security or our neighbours' – our partners – security. That was the case then, it was the case in 2017, it is the case today and it applies tomorrow for us. The Center Party welcomed, and supports, the fact that the government followed the advice of the Special Investigator and of us who actually make up a majority in this House not to sign or try to ratify this Convention. Nor should we sign something that threatens the NPT, which is not verifiable and which does not increase credibility and is more confidence-building, but rather can be another contribution to polarisation in the global environment. With that, Madam President, I would like to refer to the special opinion of the Centre Party and to call for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report.
i-65e8761d252acdec-477	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the committee's report on disarmament issues. The Christian Democrats support the joint Special Opinion No. 2 of the Moderates, the KD and the Liberals. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats would have preferred to see a nuclear-free world. Unfortunately, the world does not look like that, and Sweden will continue to work for disarmament within the framework of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, which is abbreviated NPT. The Non-Proliferation Treaty is an established agreement in which Sweden has built up a great deal of trust and helped to maintain a high standard thanks to 50 years of disarmament work. This agreement has been signed by the nuclear powers China, the United States, Russia, France and the United Kingdom. It is very important for the fight against weapons of mass destruction in general and nuclear weapons in particular that this continues to be an active and functioning agreement that prevents the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Unfortunately, reality does not look like that. Several countries, such as North Korea, Pakistan and India, have acquired nuclear weapons and pose threats to peace and security. The fact that these States, which hold nuclear weapons, are outside the Non-Proliferation Treaty makes it difficult to stop proliferation. Madam President, I would like We also see that Iran is building nuclear energy and long-range missiles and, in the long term, capable of developing nuclear weapons. Such an Islamic totalitarian regime is already a threat to world peace and stability in the region with its military involvement in a number of armed conflicts and civil wars in the region. Iran must allow the International Atomic Energy Agency to operate freely in the country so that nuclear technology is used for peaceful purposes. It is of the utmost importance that those countries that have undertaken to follow these developments in Iran follow these developments closely. Should it turn out that the deal is not being followed, the international community should act vigorously and with all possible means to counter Iran's development of nuclear weapons. Madam President, I would like The government's announced stance on the issue of the nuclear ban convention has created uncertainty among our partner countries. Now the government finally came to the same conclusion as several other parties here in Parliament, which was welcome. The only country affected by nuclear bombings – Japan – did not even participate in the negotiations and boycotted the vote. No countries with nuclear weapons have signed the agreement, which is deemed to undermine existing international security policies that contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security, including the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Madam President, I would like From the Christian Democrats' side, we hope that this has become an important lesson for the government and that it does not depart from the broad majority that exists in Parliament regarding Sweden's security policy. Broad agreements across party borders and greater consensus strengthen Sweden's ability to promote disarmament, non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and increased security in international contexts. It is important that Sweden continues to work towards maintaining and developing multilateral non-proliferation regimes in order to achieve effective and sustainable disarmament and to prevent new countries from acquiring weapons of mass destruction. Over the years, Sweden has contributed to international disarmament efforts, and we should continue to increase engagement and establish contacts and cooperation for disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.
i-65e8761d252acdec-488	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved, and I also note that the Liberals are in favour of a specific opinion in the report, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. Dissemination of weapons of mass destruction is one of the greatest threats to international peace and security. It is important that Sweden works very actively to maintain the non-proliferation regimes, agreements, processes, agreements and so on that exist multilaterally in the world so that they become stronger. This year the NPT turns 50. You can look back, and you can look at the situation in the world now. Of course it looks very bleak in several ways. This applies not least to North Korea and what they do with their nuclear programme and the threat it may pose. That also applies, of course, to Iran. Iran is a country which today hangs its critics in cranes, puts electric shocks under the feet of independent journalists and cuts the tongue of trade union leaders. One can only guess what such a regime would do if they could also dispose of the world's most dangerous weapons. It is clear that we see huge challenges in this area. At the same time, however, I think it is important, Madam President, to note that, although in the 50 years that have now gone by with these agreements, some nuclear states and countries that have not signed this Non-Proliferation Treaty, the situation would probably have been far worse if the NPT and other things had not existed. Nevertheless, much has been done to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. There was some previous speaker who mentioned that during the Cold War, when we had the most nuclear weapons in the world, it was up to 70 000. Today it is reduced to 14 000 nuclear weapons. Of course, they are extremely dangerous, and 14 000 is very much. However, there is still a trend towards a reduction in the number of nuclear weapons, which is, of course, positive. But we have a troubled reality today. It is not only that there are individual states that have very destructive ambitions, but we are actually seeing some kind of undermining of the whole rule-based world order that we have felt relatively secure in the post-war period, and especially after the Cold War. There are a number of different leaders in the world who shout in falsify, put aside science and become increasingly rough with their critics. They want to step out of existing global agreements in different ways. It can be about free trade, climate, various security arrangements and so on. Even for Sweden, which is a small, cooperative and constructive country that in various ways acts to make the world better and seeks to promote positive values for people, this will ultimately be a threat. It will be a threat to us and to our own security if the various global security and cooperation arrangements that exist are dismantled. When you pull it to its head, somewhere the issues of nuclear weapons, weapons of mass destruction, biochemical weapons of war, and so on, of course, come in. Madam President, I would like Let me mention, in a few words, the Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. I think that previous speakers from the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats have taken this up with merit. It is very problematic if Sweden is embarking on a path to start building some kind of parallel processes that actually risk undermining rather than strengthening the non-proliferation doctrine that exists in the world. In practice, this is an attempt to make Swedish NATO membership impossible by the back door, and it is very good that there is no majority whatsoever in this Parliament and that the government has backed up. Although I am not so hopeful about this, I hope that the government will also state that Sweden will not sign the Convention in the future. It is symbolic politics, and it impairs our cooperation with allies. One final point I would like to make, Madam President, concerns the proliferation and illegal trade in small and light weapons. We also mention this in the report. It is also an issue that is affected by disarmament. These are AK rifles, for example, automatic carbs and other things. It could be Manpads, small guns and so on. Up to half a million people in the world are killed every year by small and light weapons. This can be noticed in Sweden, for example in various gang conflicts. It could be civil war or terrorist groups using these weapons and so on. Sometimes it tends to show up some misunderstandings in the debate about the various agreements on small and light weapons, and hunters and others get sour. But this is not about the legal trade in arms, licensed products and such things, but about the illegal trade in arms. It's old weapons from the past that show up, perhaps from conflicts on other continents. It is weapons from the conflict in the Balkans that find their way up to criminal gangs in Sweden and so on. It is extremely important for the world to have more control over these flows and to restrict the illegal trade in small and light weapons. There are so many people dying of this, and so many people are getting hurt by these weapons. There is a UN process for this, and there is an action plan to combat the illegal trade in small and light weapons. I myself, Madam President, participated two years ago in a review conference under the auspices of the United Nations in New York on this action plan. It is clear that there are differences of opinion on the matter. Basically, the world consists of two types of states on these issues. It is countries like Sweden and many other countries – a majority of the countries in the world – that want a more restrictive line and limit it. Then there are a number of states that claim some kind of national sovereignty and therefore do not want any global regulations to limit this. To this is the American weapons lobby, which has not understood the link between the weapons themselves and the ammunition, but somehow believes that there should be no restrictions there. It is a series of dictatorships, as well as the United States and other countries, which unfortunately oppose a more restrictive line in this area. I think it is extremely important that Sweden continues to make a clear commitment to implementing the action plan. We can do that in different ways. We can help countries implement the action plan. We can also – in order to take something very concrete – through our defence force help other countries, such as the former Yugoslavia down in the Balkans, to improve, for example, the storage of weapons and the security of weapons depots. This hopefully also means fewer weapons coming into circulation.
i-65e8761d252acdec-503	Madam President, I would like Right now, the world is in an exceptional position. Over a third of the world's population is quarantined, and too much more than that, freedom of movement is severely limited. However, in the shadow of the global pandemic that has paralysed society after society, the same wars and conflicts continue as before the virus broke out, albeit in some places to a lesser extent. But children are still being shot to death, and while we are being told to stay at home, other people are being driven away from this home. Wars and weapons destroy and destroy, divide communities and take no account of anything, not even a global pandemic. The UN has strongly and repeatedly appealed to warring parties around the world to agree to a ceasefire, and the fact that not all parties have responded to that demand is in itself a tragedy. Madam President, I would like The world is what we all together make it. We have a joint responsibility for the development that is taking place and for meeting the challenges that exist. Wars and weapons destroy and destroy, but some weapons are more dangerous than others. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction as nuclear weapons is a global threat to everyone's life and international peace and security. The NPT has been raised by several speakers here. It is one of the most important building blocks for global nuclear disarmament. We all agree on that. The Treaty is central to multilateral disarmament diplomacy as a supreme framework for global disarmament and non-proliferation. It is through the NPT that nuclear weapons have made their disarmament commitments, and it is through the NPT that a large part of the work needs to be done. Through its three pillars of disarmament, non-proliferation and peaceful use of nuclear energy, the Treaty can be seen as a successful normative framework which, although there are exceptions, has prevented the proliferation of nuclear weapons to new countries and actors. The NPT needs to be strengthened, not least in the bone related to disarmament, but also in relation to non-proliferation. When a country has nuclear weapons, all countries are affected. The fact that the United States and Russia, with their huge arsenals now, do not seem to be taking responsibility for halting proliferation by continuing multilateral agreements is not acceptable, but other states also need to do their part. The proliferation of nuclear weapons is a threat to all humanity, and it is also the development of autonomous weapons that we are seeing emerging now. Several of the world's countries are working to develop weapons that can choose or attack their targets without human influence. It is incredibly disturbing and totally unacceptable. Machines can never be held accountable for their actions, and with autonomous weapons, the principle that responsibility should always be voided. The Green Party and the government are clear: the issue of autonomous weapons is anything but a technical issue. It is basically a moral stand in the international peace effort. Sweden is clearly pushing for an international ban on deadly autonomous weapons because they are incompatible with the requirements of international law. Madam President, I would like Alone is never strong, and it is only with others that we can make a difference. As I did yesterday, when we talked about human rights, I would also like to highlight today the work that others are doing. Civil society and the peace movement around the world are making enormous efforts to drive forward the global work, to spread knowledge and to promote peace and security. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) is doing a very important job in its mission to ensure that nuclear materials are not misused for military purposes and through it have a central role in non-proliferation. Sipri produces free and independent data, analysis and recommendations on armed conflicts, military expenditure and arms trade, as well as disarmament and arms control. This gives us considerably better conditions in the work on disarmament. Madam President, I would like Nor is it a secret, as we have heard from many here today, that we Greens want Sweden to ratify the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. For us, it goes without saying that Sweden as a non-nuclear state must be a driving force in the work of condemning nuclear weapons at a time when the threshold for that use is at risk of being lowered. By ratifying the ban on nuclear weapons, the normative effect on nuclear weapons is strengthened. The more states that accede to the ban, the more pressure they are under to comply with the agreement and to disarm. However, the Convention should be seen as an important complement to the existing frameworks, not as a substitute. There's no reason to think of it as that. Today, as has also been stated, there is not a majority in parliament to ratify the agreement, but we continue to work to create it. But it is not possible to sit and wait either. Instead, Sweden has increased its ambitions in disarmament work elsewhere, including by providing support to an international disarmament secretariat that will comply with disarmament commitments under the Non-Proliferation Treaty and take place as an observer in the Nuclear Weapons Convention in order to also be able to work for improvements there. These are important elements, but if we do not see that it actually leads to disarmament and non-proliferation, we will have to take other measures. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs to be a great power in the global peace effort, now and in the future. It is never a work that can come later or be done another time. Everyone needs to do their part, and pushing for non-proliferation and disarmament at all times is part of ours. I think we have a great deal of agreement in this House. The world is what we together make it. Let's make it more peaceful! One step along that road is fewer weapons of all kinds. It's time to disarm – now.
i-65e8761d252acdec-516	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party can soon sum up six years as a government party, and if you are a little mean, you can call yourself the junior member of the government, and it is clear both when you look at the positions taken by the government and the policy that has been put in place that the Green Party has often suffered defeat against the Social Democracy in terms of which policies have been pursued. One such example seems to me to be the question of signing and ratifying the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. I think Janine Alm Ericson is clear here that she wants to sign. I am pleased that there is such a clear progression in government cooperation in terms of where you want to go. I think that's good. I also welcome the fact that the International Secretariat has been supported and that it intends to become an observer once the Convention has entered into force. It'll probably do that in a year or two, I'd tip it off. I am thinking a little about what Janine Alm Ericson thinks should be the government's next step in the work on nuclear disarmament – what one can imagine about clarity when it comes to nuclear umbrellas and military cooperation with other countries and how one sees it here that we still do not have legislation on bringing nuclear weapons into Sweden from other countries or that Sweden is used as a transit country to transport nuclear weapons. That is a rather broad question. What is the next step in nuclear disarmament?
i-65e8761d252acdec-520	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it was really a broad question, and you can choose to answer a little just how you want. Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for that! It is clear that the Green Party is against nuclear weapons. We are against proliferation, we want disarmament and we want it to be order and order in this world. I also said that in my speech, and I agree with several of the speakers who have said that it is incredibly important that the NPT, where everyone is actually at the UN, is given a proper boost. It's important, and it's important that we work there. On the other hand, we see worrying trends that indicate that this is a difficult way forward. It is therefore important that we not only rely on the NPT to solve it, even if we have to put the power there, but that we also have other options. I thought it was clear here that the Nuclear Weapons Convention was referred to as a placard policy. There are many who do, but Fredrik Malm in particular clearly links it with a possible NATO membership. If you have made the political assessment that NATO membership is more important than the disarmament of nuclear weapons – it may be reasonable when you want it, because then you want to go under that umbrella – it must be clear. We want disarmament. We do not want NATO membership. I therefore hope that the Green Party's response to Håkan Svenneling is clear.
i-GEsHJSG7GXADfUFC4c4STv	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, Janine Alm Ericson! I feel that the Green Party and the Left Party are basically doing the same analysis of the situation, where we are going and perhaps to some extent what steps we should take. I really appreciate that in your answer. The criticism that I stand for is to the left of the government. The Green Party has had similar criticisms internally. This also applies to other forces on the red-green side. It is about the fact that we have not seen enough impressions of the history of the Green Party as part of the peace movement. You have about two and a half years left in government if there is no government crisis and the President needs to get back to work. As a left-wing party, I hope that we will see the Green Party make greater impressions on the basis of the peace movement idea and on disarmament. Such a clear trend could be seen in the letter on military cooperation coming this autumn. How can we be made clear that the defence cooperation we have with nuclear weapons states such as France, the United Kingdom and the United States is not going to enter NATO and that they are not the least bit about nuclear cooperation? How does it become clear that there is no indication whatsoever that Sweden is behind nuclear weapons? I think you have good intentions. I do not think otherwise. But it needs to be clear where Sweden as a country and Sweden's government stands. I think that the letter to be sent to Parliament should be used.
i-GEjVmo1XRyjX1ytie1kx3L	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Håkan Svenneling! The Green Party is working incredibly hard on these issues. In every room we go into to debate this, we put forward our views. Only in the debate here today have we heard that the resistance is quite compact. I have to say, I'm surprised sometimes. The Green Party and the Left Party have much of a common position here. Yet it is the Social Democrats or the Environmental Party that Håkan Svenneling asks each time about the attitude, when the resistance is actually on a completely different side. I very much hope that it is not the new friendships of the Left Party and the Moderates, which are a bit tied here and there, which are reflected in this issue as well. It is important that we who want the same are united and do not divide each other.
i-65e8761d252acdec-532	Mr President, I would like to The IPU, the Interparliamentary Union, is the world's oldest multilateral organisation. It was founded already in 1889 with the aim of working for peace and inter-ethnic cooperation. At present, the organisation has 179 national parliaments as members. This means that most of the 193 members of the United Nations are present. The tasks of the Interparliamentary Union include promoting personal contacts between Members of Parliament in all countries and promoting the development of parliamentary institutions. Helping to build up democratic functions and functioning parliaments is an ever-growing part of IPU's activities. The Interparliamentary Union itself cannot take decisions that are binding on the Member States or on the individual parliaments, but instead has chosen to make concrete proposals and adopt resolutions on the main subjects debated at each assembly. Sweden and the Swedish Parliament have a long history as a member. We have been present since 1892 and have participated in the work. At first it was perhaps we who needed support; Sweden was not yet a democracy in 1892. After all, our celebration of 100 years of democracy is still ongoing. Today, it is rather other countries that need support in their development of democracy. The IPU conducts a wide range of assistance activities on issues such as representative democracy, human rights, gender equality and women's participation in politics. It also defends the human rights of parliamentarians and promotes international security and sustainable development. Over the years, the IPU has approached the UN and has since 2002 been an observer at the UN General Assembly. This reflects, not least, IPU's consistent and determined work on the resolutions that IPU assemblies are working on. Today, they all have a bearing on sustainability goals. Sweden is a major contributor to IPU's development activities via Sida. Together with other contributors, we support a number of IPU's strategic objectives. The focus of Swedish aid towards IPU is precisely to:
i-65e8761d252acdec-540	Promoting and promoting equality between women and men Promoting and protecting human rights 中 contribute to peace building, conflict prevention and human security • contribute to the representation and influence of young people in parliaments build parliamentary support for the global development goals with a particular focus on health and climate. I am incredibly proud that Sweden, via Sida, together with IPU, is clearly involved in contributing to a better world. Mr President, I would like to Every year IPU meets in two general meetings, one in spring and one in autumn. The Spring Assembly would already have taken place in April but was cancelled in order not to contribute to the spread of covid-19. I see how the current pandemic can play a major role in the future work of the IPU. Not least, we now see restrictions on many of the less democratic states in terms of human rights. Basically, of course, it is about access to healthcare. But it is also a question of the right to information about the threat posed by the virus itself. These are states which introduce exceptional laws in which the covid-19 pandemic seems to be used as an excuse to get to opposition and other government critics. It is a question of privacy that is eliminated when authorities use the virus as an excuse for unlimited digital surveillance, which violates a fundamental human right. It is about the right to work and about the many times already vulnerable situation of migrant workers who become anything but sustainable as a result of the pandemic that is now going on. The list of examples where human rights are eliminated can be done almost indefinitely. In Wuhan, China, where the first reports of the virus came from, doctors already shared their concerns about patients with respiratory problems with their colleagues in December 2019. They were immediately silenced and reproved by the local authorities. They were supposed to spread rumors. In addition, Chinese authorities are trying to limit foreign media from watching what is happening in the country. Among other things, a number of foreign correspondents are no longer allowed to work. Journalists belong to media that have, among other things, examined the outbreak of the virus in Wuhan. At the beginning of April, a doctor was imprisoned in Russia who warned of a lack of preparation for the pandemic. In the area of Jammu and Kashmir, the authorities have decided to continue restrictions on access to the Internet, although the number of infected persons is rising. This makes it extremely difficult for people to have access to the basic information on the extent of the virus spread and how best to protect themselves from the infection. In Hungary, Prime Viktor Orbán can now rule without the support of Parliament, and there is great concern among journalists, among others, that they may be imprisoned for their work. In Cambodia, there is a proposal for emergency laws which could, for example, mean ten years of imprisonment for those who are considered to be in breach of rules for limiting the spread of infection, and there is a ban on sharing information on covid-19. In the Philippines, President Duterte has said that the police and the military may shoot sharp at those who are considered troublemakers during the quarantine period, and over 17,000 people have been arrested for quarantine violations. There are a number of examples of authorities and governments introducing measures that can fundamentally affect people's sexual and reproductive health and rights. This applies not least to access to abortion, which is currently being restricted in many parts of the world. We are already seeing the backlash that covid-19 risks leading to or already exists when it comes to human rights. I see that the Interparliamentary Union can take a very important role in advancing the work of democracy development and human rights on a global scale with the help of parliamentarians from all over the world. Mr President, I would like to On the basis of the work of the Swedish delegation in the Interparliamentary Union, I would like to share with the House the worrying developments we have seen within the IPU as regards the rights of LGBT+ people. At the General Assembly of the IPU in St Petersburg in autumn 2017, a situation occurred when one of the IPU committees wanted to organise a seminar focusing on LGBTQ-plus people's rights. It resulted in a general chaos and questioned the right of an individual committee to organise a seminar in the name of the IPU. For this reason, this issue was raised at the next two congregations, both of which met in Geneva. Finally, a two-step vote was held. The first thing that was decided was that the General Assembly could refuse a committee to discuss a particular subject. There followed a vote on whether the rights of LGBT+ persons can be discussed in the context of the work of the IPU. I still feel sick when I think about the mood that prevailed in the Chamber with nearly 1 000 parliamentarians after the vote was finished. An unholy alliance of parliamentarians from a number of Eastern states as well as African, South American and Asian countries stood up in the hall and shouted their joy, as if they had won the World Football Championship. In IPU, we from Sweden are part of a geopolitical cooperation group. In it we afterwards lifted up this disgusting act. We took the initiative to organise a side event on the same theme. The succeeding assembly met in Qatar, which made this seminar impossible because it is even subject to prison sentences there to talk about LGBT-plus issues. But last autumn we successfully arranged a seminar in Belgrade. It was so successful that among the participants there was also a parliamentarian from Uganda. Uganda was the country that pushed the hardest issue that we should not be allowed to talk about LGBT+ issues. The exclusion of such an important group as LGBT+ people in the work of the IPU is, of course, unacceptable. I will continue to work for another system of things on behalf of the Swedish Parliament and the Swedish IPU delegation. Mr President, I would like to The IPU delegation is actively working to build trust with parliaments all over the world. I would therefore like to thank those Members of Parliament who together with me form the Swedish IPU delegation. I would also like to thank the Parliament's international office, especially Helena Lundstedt, who is now on parental leave, but also Björn Sondén and Emelie Nilsson. Without their efforts, the work of the delegation would not have worked.
i-65e8761d252acdec-563	Madam President, I would like We are, to say the least, in an unpredictable time. We are in the midst of a health crisis which is also an economic crisis and which, far too many, has also become a personal crisis. The rapid spread of the virus shows how close countries are connected. The fact that countries initially turn inward is quite natural. But crisis management, as in these crises, requires far more international cooperation than we have in everyday life. Here in Sweden we will be more keen and proactive to make the future new international collaboration post-corona work even better. At a time when global cooperation is needed most, at the same time the conditions for what we have are deteriorating. This makes the whole crisis even worse. We in Sweden live in a cold little country, far up in the north. It is a country that is heavily dependent on exports, and we build our prosperity and prosperity on trade and security together with others. In times such as these, great geopolitical tensions arise. Free trade is under threat and barriers to trade are laid out. Solutions to these knots are more international cooperation, more multilaterism, more dialogue to strengthen democracies and rule-based international law. When this is called into question, as is currently happening, we will stand stronger together and show and open up to cooperate better with others. Madam President, I would like For us MPs, Sweden's elected representatives, cooperation with other countries' parliaments and parliamentarians is extremely important. Sweden was one of the first countries in the world to choose to cooperate internationally with other parliaments almost 130 years ago. Today, representatives of 179 of the world's parliaments are constantly gathering with over 46 000 elected or appointed representatives. They are cooperating in the Interparliamentary Union. That is the clear parliamentary dimension of the United Nations. Cooperation partners such as the UN, WHO and the Interparliamentary Union are more important every day. We are taking a step closer to getting out of this mega-crisis. Madam President, I would like The pandemic itself is a health crisis that is now being addressed. However, it has led to a huge economic crisis that knocks away the bones of many viable companies. In addition, the effects of the oil price war that will go down in history are reinforced as one of the world's most expensive. Each of these is a major crisis. Together, it's a huge crisis. In the middle of all this it will stand out a lot when you later look back in history. It is now the arms and legs of international cooperation that are measured against reality. It is at times that these are not times for less cooperation, but more, not time for closed doors and protectionism, but for open doors and more transparency. Madam President, I would like When elected parliamentarians work together globally, it is not least about strengthening human rights and the rights of children and women. It is about international peace and security, sustainable development, free and fair trade, investment, the right to health and care and to combat international terrorism and extremism. Together, it constitutes very large parts of the global sustainability goals that the world has jointly set and targets. This is the UN's global target for 2030. The parliamentary dimension of the UN therefore becomes even more relevant in these unpredictable times. It is about strengthening dialogue and dialogue between elected representatives and parliaments globally. The Swedish Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee writes that the Swedish delegation to the Interparliamentary Union should have a high level of ambition and active participation in the development and implementation of various issues. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has quite rightly landed there in its assessment. The Swedish delegation's long-term strategy for the coming years is to continue to maintain Sweden's commitment to international cooperation. It is important to renew them and strengthen them. One focus is to increase knowledge and consider facts about developments in, for example, East Asia, Sweden and Europe's relations with East Asia and not least with China. In addition, it is important to continue to strengthen the close cooperation with the Nordic parliaments and Nordic parliamentarians in order to strengthen the Nordic dimension of global cooperation. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Parliament for its confidence in leading the work and chairing it. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Parliament for its very committed support in international cooperation. This applies, in particular, to the President, the Presidium of Presidents, Members and the International Bureau of Parliament and its staff. They are all an important part of the team that supports the Riksdag's continued international engagement. Thank you very much. Madam President, I would like Another concrete example is the work ahead of the UN's anniversary later this year when the UN turns 75. Here in Parliament, the Speaker and the Speakers' Bureau will celebrate this particularly in October. In the run-up to the annual UN summit at the end of September, when the world's Heads of State or Government meet, the annual political declaration will now be working on the future and the more effective UN of tomorrow. It is especially so that only two countries, Sweden and Qatar, have been given the responsibility of the UN to hold the pen and produce the declaration. It is to be welcomed that we parliamentarians should be involved in this process. Madam President, I would like Another clear strong signal was when Sweden was elected last autumn to the Executive Committee of the Interparliamentary Union, the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee consists of only 15 elected parliamentarians representing 179 countries. As the sixth Swedish ever since the organization was formed in 1889, 130 years ago, it becomes an assignment that commits. It is a term of office and a responsibility that rests on Sweden for the next four years. In addition, Sweden's ambitions in further democratic work, the anchoring of human rights, not least for children and women, and LGBTQ dimensions have been strengthened as financial support for the Interparliamentary Union doubles over the coming years. That is another clear signal. Madam President, I would like It is about the future and winning our generation's democracy. It's the responsibility of every generation to do the job. In Sweden, we are still celebrating the 100 Swedish years of democracy. But it is important that we can also celebrate the next 100 years of Swedish democracy. It is therefore gratifying that the Swedish delegation has a recurring commitment to Sweden's high school students to tie together the national democratic work with the importance of international democratic parliamentary cooperation. This takes the form of scholarships and working days together with students, teachers and members of the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like International cooperation is needed in crisis management, and international systems are currently being challenged. International cooperation is needed to defeat the pandemic and its consequences. International cooperation must maintain and protect democratic and free societies in order to secure trade and jobs in Sweden. There are now counter forces that want to take advantage of this situation. In the vacuum that is now spreading as the normal structured international exchange slows down or pauses, there is a risk of undemocratic forces taking on. Some see an opportunity to weaken international collaborations and redraw the global playing field. But the world doesn't take a break. That is why we, together from the Riksdag and Sweden's elected representatives, should strongly stand up for our values and interests both during and after the mega crisis. Sweden will continue to push for security, democracy and human rights – together as a parliament and together with other parliaments. There should be more international cooperation and more together. I call for the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be approved in the report.
i-65e8761d252acdec-583	Madam President, I would like There is no evil that has nothing good with it. It's a little fun to make a little jump into the Education Committee again. Today we are debating the UbU14 on adult education. In view of the current situation with the coronapndemine, it is very topical. Unfortunately, the need for adult education is likely to increase in view of all the warning and bankruptcies in the wake of the Corona. The restructuring of the economy that has already begun will escalate and affect the labour market. In a labour market where everything that can be digitised will be digitised, the demand for people to equip themselves with new knowledge increases. A longer working life with a greater need for skills development and career changes will become the rule rather than the exception. This means that knowledge and skills will become increasingly important as security in the labour market. An important part of the new social contract will be that both companies and the public need to create good pathways to transition in the middle of working life and that workers need to get used to the idea of changing jobs and being willing to change. Madam President, I would like Moderates see the need for a number of changes and measures in adult education. I'm going to pick up some of them today. The first is that university of applied sciences must continue to be reformed. It often meets up when it comes to facilitating career changes to the shortage professions – we have a great need to reduce the shortage. Unfortunately, the qualification requirements often include labour market experience, which excludes large groups. To this end, training providers must be given the opportunity to offer preparatory courses. The second is that the choice and quality of municipal adult education must be increased. The government appointed the Frivux inquiry, which produced its Frivux report – freedom of choice in adult education in 2008. A reform of freedom of choice based on the Frivux report should be implemented in adult education so that the student can freely choose to study adult education under municipal or other direction. In terms of quality, the mission of the School Inspectorate must be broadened so that it is not only examined at the main level but also at the unit level, which is now taking place in primary and secondary schools. Finally, Madam President, the SFI must be fundamentally reformed. These range from individual performance plans linked to the establishment allowance to significantly increasing the availability of SFI teachers. This can be done by increasing the number of distance courses, ensuring that more universities with teacher education offer summer courses in Swedish as a second language and making Swedish as a second language a compulsory part of teacher education. Then the need for more teachers in Swedish for immigrants can be better met. Finally, Madam President, I would like to endorse Amendment No 7.
i-65e8761d252acdec-592	Madam President, I would like In fact, it was Patrick Reslow who would have made this speech, but because of the restrictions brought about by the current pandemic, I will be speaking in the place of Mr Patrick. First of all, allow me to endorse reservation 8, Madam President. Adult education is basically strongly linked to the situation in upper secondary school. The problems faced by upper secondary school are, in most cases, the same as in adult education, at least in terms of educational choice and prior knowledge. The Swedish adult education system is in a sense quite unique. There are few countries in the world that can compare themselves with us when it comes to opportunities for further education later in life. We think this is great. There should be opportunities to adapt quickly to the demands and challenges of new times. We also see that there is a great deal of mismatch in several different sectors. Adult education serves an important purpose here. The prerequisite for adult education to function is of course that basic education itself is so good that it is easy to acquire new skills. As we have said in the past with regard to primary and secondary education, we believe that adult education must be given a state head office. In particular, the business community would benefit from this, as it could put time and effort into improving the quality of education rather than adapting to the regulations of different municipalities. State responsibility would increase equivalence and improve the quality of education. It is equally important that adult education is closely linked to business needs. The primary objective of adult education must therefore be to strengthen skills in, in particular, shortage professions. We have a strong need for more police officers, more qualified teachers, more people working in the healthcare sector, etc. However, this may also apply to specific industries in need of expertise, such as the steel industry, mining, forestry or haulage. Adult education should therefore focus on precisely these training courses and shortages. For those who intend to study in Komvux in order to obtain a comprehensive school or upper secondary school degree, it is important that it is the same requirement for adult education skills as in the regular primary and secondary school. When it is announced that special grading systems will be introduced and other requirements for upper secondary school work for those who attend adult education are sent out completely the wrong signals. Adult education must never be converted into a fast track in order for certain groups to qualify for upper secondary and higher education studies. Adult education must also not be turned into an integration project rather than a clear, structured and knowledge-focused educational effort. Madam President, I would like The SFI education, as it stands today, is inadequate in many respects. I am thinking not only of the lack of requirements for SFI training for those who want to be part of Swedish society, but also of a lack of procedures for monitoring attendance and results. The Swedish language is fundamental to being able to survive in society. This applies both in contacts with authorities and in social contexts with other citizens. Those who do not master the Swedish language will find it difficult to integrate into society and, of course, even harder to enter the labour market. The Swedish Democrats want everyone who comes to Sweden to know Swedish society well. We therefore advocate compulsory social orientation for all those who are granted a residence permit. This includes teaching rights and obligations in addition to knowledge of Swedish society's culture, history and values. There should be clear requirements for a high level of knowledge in the subject, and a check should be made before the student passes the course. We also want to see significantly higher demands on the content and structure of teaching. Today, pupils with good prior knowledge are mixed with pupils who may be completely lacking in basic education. Such a structure is not conducive to the development of knowledge but rather leads to worse results in the group as a whole. We therefore propose that all teaching within SFI be classified according to the student's prior knowledge. In order to determine this, we want to introduce tests that determine the individual student's level of knowledge so that he receives adequate and good instruction.
i-65e8761d252acdec-606	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Education and Training on adult education, which highlights incredibly important forms of education such as Komvux and polytechnics, but also Swedish for immigrants, so-called SFIs. Sweden and the world are in an exceptional crisis. The Coronapendem affects all of us, and it has affected not least the hundreds of thousands of students and students in Komvux and University of Applied Sciences who in just a few days have switched from traditional studies to distance education. I would like to thank you very much for the work and the rapid change you have made! I would also like to thank all teachers and educational coordinators who have made it possible and who are struggling every day to ensure that students and students receive the best possible education based on the conditions that exist. In order to meet the coronapandemine, it is both a question of limiting the spread of the disease and of alleviating the financial consequences for both individuals and businesses. Many people have now been short-term laid off. We see increased notice, and unemployment rates are rising sharply. At this point, the Center Party has pushed for more training places. These people can be equipped so that they can be even stronger in the labour market after the Corona crisis and meet the skills requirements. This spring we have presented initiatives on more places in vocational studies, more places in the university of applied sciences and more short courses in courses at the university of applied sciences. YH-flex is also being introduced – a pilot project for a faster and more flexible way to obtain a degree for those who already have a vocational qualification equivalent to a polytechnic degree today. Madam President, I would like Adult education is an extremely important part of creating conditions and giving people a chance to retrain and further educate themselves later in life. Every fourth student leaving upper secondary school leaves it with incomplete grades. The existence of high-quality adult education is crucial for these individuals to gain new and better opportunities later in life and to acquire education and training. The Swedish education system is characterised by freedom of choice in all areas except when it comes to municipal adult education. In that system, it is de facto up to municipalities to decide whether or not there should be freedom of choice. The Center Party wants to see an adult education grant so that we create freedom of choice also for those who want to learn in adult education. In this way, freedom of choice is increased and the students' conditions are strengthened. Adult education also plays a crucial role in meeting current labour market needs. In the best of worlds, more students in the high school elections would already choose the right education. Unfortunately, that is not the reality. In this situation, it is absolutely crucial that we have vocational training that meets the needs of the labour market, from sheet metal workers to drivers. This report also highlights another important form of education that has been and will continue to be a key for us to achieve integration into society for new citizens in Sweden: Swedish for immigrants. As far as the Center Party is concerned, it is gratifying that several of the elements that we have pushed for in terms of strengthening the SFI are included in the framework of the January agreement. It is about increasing the quality, getting more hours for the students who need it best, ensuring that Swedish can be combined with vocational training and also investigating the conditions for a sfi-money. The Swedish Parliament has recently received a bill based on the k omvux inquiry. Several parts of that investigation are good, but the investigation misses out on the possibility of further training for people with intellectual disabilities. We will come back to the issue when the matter is dealt with later this spring. Validation is an area that the Center Party sees need to strengthen. Unfortunately, there is still a lack of an effective way to systematically take stock of the skills of newcomers. The process must begin as soon as a person comes to Sweden. The Finnish Immigration Service will be responsible, and other authorities will be tasked with validating and supplementing existing competences in the next step. These authorities shall have strong incentives to allocate resources in terms of both time and staff for this purpose. They also need to be able to offer appropriate supplementary courses. The report also highlights polytechnic education, which has been a success story in Sweden for some time. The vast majority of students who study a YH education come to work. Continuing to develop and strengthen universities of applied sciences in Sweden is a key issue, not least in the situation we see in the labour market today. Finally, I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 6 by the Center Party. We will have to return to the discussion on how to strengthen adult education. These are incredibly important forms of education for people to be formed, educated and retrained later in life. It is a particularly important issue in these times.
i-65e8761d252acdec-619	Madam President, I would like For many people, adult education has provided a second chance when previous school forms have failed. For others, it's a chance for professional change. After completing primary and secondary school, everyone must have sufficient knowledge of social and working life. This knowledge sees the Left Party as a right. All adults who have not obtained this knowledge shall have the right to have them covered in adult education. As the labour market and society change, it becomes a growing problem that many young people have not completed upper secondary school. Today, there is a large group of young adults who are poorly equipped for working life and who are thus in danger of finding and maintaining a job. Specific efforts are needed in both adult education and labour market policies to improve their opportunities and to facilitate future skills provision. Madam President, I would like A large proportion of those working in the health care sector are nurses. It is very unclear what qualifications a nurse needs to be employed today, as it is the employer who assesses this when she is employed. It is important to strengthen the role of nurses and to promote the necessary professionalisation. We see this not least in these times of pandemic. Today, education and training are different across the country and therefore need to be set up to clarify the role. It is important to know what training and thus competence a nurse has in order to improve the quality and status of the profession. Specializations may also be needed, as the role is so different depending on the workplace. It is now possible to specialise in dementia and palliative care through the University of Applied Sciences, for example, but there are no national guidelines for education. We in the Left Party therefore believe that all specialist training courses for nurses at polytechnic level should be strengthened, nationally coherent and offered in more areas such as health care and care for the elderly. In this connection, I would like to endorse the Left Party's Amendment No 3. Madam President, I would like The University of Applied Sciences has great potential in helping to meet the skills development needs that exist in Sweden today and in the future. Today, only single places are offered in certain training courses, depending on the location. The Left Party sees a value in more people being able to take part in the university of applied sciences' educational offerings. We therefore believe that the government should investigate how universities of applied sciences can be made available to more people by offering independent courses. Madam President, I would like Swedish for immigrants is a qualified language education in municipal adult education. Sfi aims to provide adults with a mother tongue other than Swedish basic knowledge of the Swedish language and the opportunity to learn and develop a functional second language. SFI will also provide language tools for communication and active participation in everyday, social and working life. The education is characterized by the student developing a communicative language skills. This means being able to communicate both orally and in writing according to your needs. The starting point for the training shall be the individual's needs and prerequisites. It is currently the responsibility of municipalities to organise SFIs and offer the training to the target group. At the same time, the state has a great responsibility to give municipalities good opportunities to carry out these activities, both financially and through coordination. In practice, however, the right to participate in SFI differs from the municipality to the municipality. The interpretation of who is considered to be resident in the municipality seems to vary. In Linköping people's registration is required, while citizens of the Union can register and participate in teaching in both Malmö and Uppsala. However, in order to obtain a final grade, the person must have a social security number. The Left Party believes that this should be reviewed and that the right to SFI should be extended to include more. Madam President, I would like We also have dossiers that are being prepared to simplify. I maintain the positions of my party on these matters, but to gain time I refrain from expressing them in the debate on this report.
i-65e8761d252acdec-632	Madam President, I would like You should be prepared that most of you will change your profession at least three times during your life. This was the message that a union representative gave us almost finished nursing students a few weeks before Christmas 1980. That was a little surprising, I must say, to those of us who have spent several years training ourselves to a profession and just waited to make their debut and establish ourselves in the profession we have trained to be. But in retrospect, I think it was rather forward-looking to prepare for this. Even when you are approaching your degree, it is difficult to imagine that you would like to work with something else, after all, there are quite a lot of people who have left the profession they have trained for for various reasons. Often you go to a neighbouring sector where you can benefit from your education and experience. But there may also be a need for a complete career change. When the emergency ward at Vimmerby Hospital was to be closed down, one of the redundant nurses used the opportunity to re-train to train for their dream profession florist. At the same time, a assistant nurse shifted her career and became an industrial worker in a foundry. There may be many other reasons why you need to train as an adult. After a number of years, it is not uncommon for a student to be motivated to take up his or her studies and complete his or her grades in order to obtain university qualifications or to take a vocational education or training course. It can also apply to a new arrival, which needs to be locked into Swedish society in order to become self-sufficient. The person may have a profession with them but needs to complement what is specific to Sweden in order to be able to practice the profession here in our country – or even want to acquire a new profession that provides better opportunities for jobs. That is why adult education is so important. In order to match this group, training efforts in language and vocational training are needed at an early stage of establishment. Professionals are a very successful form of education, while SFIs are not performing quite as well. Many testify that studies in vocational education and training combined with studies in Swedish significantly increase the opportunities for jobs and establishment for new arrivals. It is important that as many new arrivals as possible have the opportunity to go that way. One reason why this is the case may be that the SFI education is primarily organised so that the person first learns only Swedish for a number of years and then can start a regular education. This means that the goal of a job is more distant and that motivation is at risk of falling. On the other hand, SFI with vocational education includes both SFI courses and upper secondary courses. In addition, part of the training period is in the professions offered by the study provider, and it often offers a good chance of working after completion of the training. The SFI courses provide knowledge in the Swedish language but are also partly adapted to the professional choices and requirements of the labour market in order to provide as relevant knowledge as possible in Swedish. The education can also create a better context and motivation for students to learn Swedish when the goal of the education becomes professional knowledge and there is a clear way to support themselves. Madam President, I would like It is important that education meets the needs that exist. Instead of allowing requirements for knowledge in Swedish to stand in the way of participation in education and training, there may be reasons for some vocational training courses to be more flexible. One example is the training that provides evidence of professional competence, which is a requirement for working as a professional driver. If this training were to be offered in more languages, it would provide an opportunity for people to get into work more quickly and thus have their own livelihood. The knowledge of Swedish can be gained in parallel with the work. The government should take appropriate measures accordingly. I am in favour of the Christian Democrats' reservation 11 but, of course, I support all our proposals.
i-65e8761d252acdec-645	Madam President, I would like We are debating the motion report on adult education, which is based on a number of motions from October last year. The committee proposes that we reject all motions with reference to the current regulations, work in progress and measures taken. I therefore support the proposal. There are many good proposals in the motions, but since they were written – it feels like oceans have passed since October – we have negotiated a budget for this year in accordance with the January agreement, an agreement in which the parties in the middle of Swedish politics have agreed to work together to strengthen the supply of skills by strengthening opportunities for people to change, change their profession, switch and grow. We also agree to strengthen integration by ensuring that people who come to our country have better SFI and thus a strengthened opportunity to enter the labour market and thus gain greater freedom and power over their lives. But even in January of this year, we had no idea what we were going to face today, in April 2020. We have a coronapandemia where the most important thing for both the government and all parties in Parliament is a focus on saving lives, protecting our fragile ones and ensuring that care works. The second focus we have is to save jobs and businesses, and of course today's subject, adult education, comes in very strongly. Madam President, I would like Since mid-March, the Swedish Public Health Agency recommends that adult education as well as upper secondary and higher education be conducted remotely. This has been a challenge. I think there's more people who have thanked you for what's going on out there. Perhaps it is a little troubling as far as SFI is concerned. On 30 March this year, the government, together with C and L, presented a crisis package for jobs and transition with a number of important initiatives in the field of education. It is absolutely crucial that when the perspiration and layoffs are high and unemployment is rising as a result of the outbreak of the virus, we give people good opportunities to further train or train themselves to change the industry. More people should be able to stand ready once the economic cycle turns around again, and adult education is crucial here. The crisis package contained a number of important initiatives. In adult education and training, more people will now have the opportunity to train for a lack of professional skills. Municipalities are also given better opportunities to offer upper secondary vocational education for adults – education that allows them to develop within an industry or switch to an industry where there is a shortage of skills. The requirement for municipalities to finance as many places as the state has been removed for 2020. The state also finances additional places during this year. Since before, there has been a proper expansion of the university of applied sciences on the ground, and the agency has also been tasked with developing more flexible solutions and short courses, as requested in the report. The Government decided a week ago to announce funds for competence development when you are laid off or announced. The funds should also be able to go to validation, and there is no requirement for co-financing. What does this mean in concrete terms? Yeah, I don't know. I've talked to a lot of people in the weeks that have passed. For example, a waitress may now be able to train as a cook, who is really a shortage profession. By the way, I would like to do that myself. It can also be about a person who has worked in the tourism industry now being able to train for work in welfare with care and care. Adult education is crucial for us to be well equipped for this. This crisis occupies most of our time, energy and power. But let us remember that it is difficult to overestimate the importance of adult education in order to create a better society. Even after the crisis, adult education will be crucial to giving people more chances of life – another and a second chance. Adult education will continue to be the key to improving skills supply, matching and integration and to giving more people more freedom and opportunities in life. This won't change the coronapem.
i-65e8761d252acdec-656	Madam President, I would like We have all spoken extremely well about adult education in this House, and I do not believe for a moment that it also does not reflect what we think. But the fact is that adult education in Sweden is not rarely treated in the school system. Often it is the form of school that you add to a haste at the end so that it should not be completely forgotten, or that you actually forget to mention. This is to underestimate the importance of adult education and training in the future. It is also underestimating the dedication, loyalty to the students and the belief in adult education as a school form that exists among almost everyone who works with this. This is, for example, a group of teachers who often end up last in the queue when resources are allocated or first teachers are added. It is usually said – and I agree, Madam President – that there are no forms of school that are as cyclically sensitive as adult education. That's right. In times of crisis, more and more people are seeking adult education in order to cope with a change in their working lives. Madam President, I would like We have heard previous speakers mention the package of measures presented by the government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, on 30 March. These are measures relating to regional vocational qualifications and university of applied sciences. For example, the co-financing requirement for municipalities will be removed in regional professional practice from 2020. In this work, I believe that not only the co-financing requirement and its abolition are important, but it is also about each region being able to dimension the number of places not only according to the regional needs today, in the most acute of crises, but also after what the future labour market will be like after the pandemic. In addition to changes in regional vocational skills, we have also heard of an increased number of places within the university of applied sciences in order for more people who lose their jobs in the wake of the Corona crisis to have the opportunity for a rapid transition and a new job. Madam President, I would like It is now all the more important to increase knowledge about adult education and how adult education can be conducted with the goal of high throughput and high goal fulfilment for the students. We know that the government has begun that work and that conversation, and I hope that under the current circumstances this will accelerate. On the Liberal side, we also see, despite the positive things that have come into place or have been announced in terms of regional vocational qualifications and more places for universities of applied sciences, that more measures and more adaptations of adult education will be needed later on to meet the crisis. Madam President, I would like Now that we are going into the work of increasing efforts on adult education, we must remember the group that was in adult education when the crisis began. It is a group that needs very much support. Many people who studied adult education before the crisis have earlier school failures behind them. It can be about diagnoses, challenges with studying in Swedish and so on. In the time that is now waiting, with a massive influx of new students into adult education that is certainly closer to the labour market, it is extremely important not to forget this first group, which will now need even more support to come out on a changed and even more competitive labour market. Madam President, I would like This also applies to students who study Swedish for immigrants. Now is the time to give more priority to developing SFIs, not least in combination with vocational training. We heard in the Education Committee today that SFI is the form of school that faces the greatest challenges in adapting to the current situation. We must not forget this, and we must take heights to take care of those students who have major problems during this period. It is also a question of continuing to ensure that SFI education is more individually adapted to the students' conditions, that more students are able to handle SFI and that the quality of teaching is maintained and increased. There is a need for more qualified teachers in all forms of school – this is something that Liberals talk about – and this applies not least to SFIs, where less than half of teachers today are qualified. Madam President, I would like In 2018, Komvux, or adult education, became 50 years old. Liberals believe in the importance of education throughout their lives. In the coming years adult education may be more important than it has ever been in the past. I would like to conclude by referring to the special opinion of the Liberals.
i-65e8761d252acdec-668	Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia affects us people in Sweden and all over the world. People's everyday lives are fundamentally affected. It is impossible to stand here in Parliament's pulpit without thinking about the people who are sick and the people, the elderly and at risk groups, who make a big contribution by being at home and isolating themselves extra much. It also applies to all of us who help as best they can. In health care, nurses, doctors, nurses and other staff work to care for those who have fallen ill. Other workplaces are empty. Some companies have seen their turnover disappear over just a few weeks. Varsles are on the increase, and many people have had to go down in working hours. With the help of short-term lay-offs, many companies will be able to cope with the crisis, but unemployment is increasing. After the crisis, it will be important to get the machinery started and create confidence in the future. Today, representatives of the business community in Uppsala, from whom I come, say that a restart is needed. One of the proposals highlighted by industry is to expand the number of places of education in universities, polytechnics and adult education to meet an increase in unemployment and an insecure labour market. It is a good thing that the business community is involved in this. Today we are debating adult education. Adult education is an essential part of lifelong learning, where people, regardless of age, can have the opportunity of a second, third and fourth chance in life – a chance to learn new and re-learn. I'm going to use an important word: the work line. The workline is certainly not a straight line. That's many times a crooked line. Now that we are talking about adult education, I would like to make us remember this: no successful education without skilled teachers. And it is perhaps precisely in adult education that the most skilled educators are most needed – the knowledgeable, creative and intellectual teachers. It is they who will be able to cope with the world's most important work, the teaching profession. In the January agreement, the Green Party has agreed with the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals that the possibilities for transition should be strengthened and that employers' needs for labour with the right training should be better met. It is also clear that the Knowledgelift will be extended with higher education, university of applied sciences, adult education and vocational labour market training. The Government has given several different assignments to authorities and investigations to realise this important ambition. A first bill on komvux has also been submitted to the Riksdag which, among other things, increases the opportunities to study for those who need new skills as a result of a change in the labour market. This is the first time that I have debated education policy in this House, and I do so because Annika Hirvonen Falk was unable to come here. Normally, I am involved in the various debates of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture, and I am also a spokesperson for rural policy. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to say something about the supply of skills in rural areas. I think we could start by mentioning the good experiences we now see from remote learning and digital learning. These are the experiences that will really be necessary and important for developing education in our sparsely populated and rural areas. I hope that we can take this with us in the further work. The Government has given an assignment to the Swedish Agency for Growth to analyse and propose measures that can facilitate the supply of skills in Sweden's rural areas. The purpose of the mission is to identify measures that can facilitate the recruitment of the right skills by businesses and public employers, thereby contributing to the viability of rural areas. The mission will be reported in June of this year. The other day I heard in Ekot that people have now started asking for locally produced and organic food to a much greater extent. The daily grocery trade has started to take in more locally produced food products, and it has become a boost for the direct sale of local food from producer to consumer in so-called REKO rings around the country. This raises an important issue, namely the need for more training for all the producers we want to invest in processing food. Many more bakeries, butcheries, dairies, ysteries, juice and jam manufacturers, packeries and everything it can be all over Sweden. The National Skills Centre for Small-scale Food Crafts, Eldrimner, has an important role to play and should now receive stable funding with earmarked resources in order to further develop its activities and further promote regional food culture. The number of food tradesmen around the country continues to increase, and more products compete in the open SM in food trades. Eldrimner together with Torsta in Jämtland has a polytechnic education in food crafts. Due to the uncertain funding for Eldrimner, it has been impossible to apply for the courses at the university of applied sciences in the longer term. On one occasion, Eldrimner even had to close the education because of a misconception with the Swedish National Agency for Higher Education. It's unfortunate that it's so shaky. Another area that is a future sector is aquaculture. There is a basic education at the University of Applied Sciences in Lysekil where courses in animal welfare, the environment and permit testing are held. It is the National Competence Centre for Aquaculture that holds this. The courses at the University of Applied Sciences in Lysekil have not been available for some years, which is incredibly problematic for the supply of skills in this growing and very positive future industry. One proposal aimed at enabling a transition in the middle of working life is the Green Party's proposal on development time. Since the work line is not straight, you need forms where you can re-school in the middle of life and find the conditions for it. Of course, we feel it is a pity that the proposal does not have broader support. Madam President, I would like As a result of the Corona crisis, the government has strongly increased its efforts in adult education. In addition, 1 500 seats will be added to the vocational university and 5 000 seats will be added to the university of applied sciences. We see how a record number of people apply for the nursing programme before the autumn semester starts at universities and higher education institutions. It's extremely good. Madam President, I would like In times of crisis, our society and we as humans are tested. The decisions we make here and now will be important for a long time to come. For those people who are now facing major changes of life, society needs to set up and offer new opportunities. The Green Party wants adult education to be the important link in the crooked work line that allows people to develop further in order to respond to society's challenges and develop as people throughout their lives. With those words, I would like to support the proposal in the report of the Committee on Education and Training.
