i-19e7640c7a732d9e-1	Madam President, I would like We have suffered from a pandemic in which there is not yet any treatment or vaccine. It is a pandemic which affects the elderly in particular, where care is heavily burdened, and which has, in a very short time, caused people to lose their jobs, livelihoods and perhaps their life's work. Most things have changed for people all over the world. There are many things we will need to consider, re-evaluate and learn from after the pandemic. It is, of course, the case that we can draw conclusions and see the whole picture more easily afterwards. What was right and what should we have done differently? I am humbled by the fact that today I cannot be sure that we are doing everything right or whether we should act differently in the fight to combat the pandemic. It will have the future to tell, but in the meantime it is urgent that we take advantage of knowledge and experience from many quarters so that we have the best possible basis for each decision. There are no simple answers or obvious solutions during a pandemic with a new virus. What I am sure is that I do not want us to be forced to observe afterwards that we lacked the political tools needed to combat the spread of the disease. We need to be prepared and able to quickly take the measures deemed necessary in the event of a worsening situation. That is what this matter is about. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats believe that the government should be able to take measures to reduce the spread of infection. However, this requires authorisation, and it must be a mandate given by the Riksdag. Parliamentary scrutiny is necessary, and it also provides an opportunity for accountability by elected politicians. The proposal for a temporary law before us now gives the government the right to quickly take decisions on the basis of the disease protection law in order to combat covid-19. The decision shall, however, be submitted immediately to the parliamentary scrutiny. It shall concern matters which are subject to the general restrictions of the Disease Control Act, and shall be within the framework of the Constitution. We Christian Democrats support the proposal as it is now designed according to the agreements of the party leaders, the opinion of the Law Council and the assessment of the Constitutional Committee. However, we have given a follow-up motion outlining two complementary proposals. First of all, we believe that the Government should inform the Riksdag already when, based on the authorisation, it begins its work on producing a regulation that will require the parliamentary review. If Parliament is to successfully complete the process, early information is required. I am pleased that the committee agreed and stressed the importance of this procedure in its position in the current report. In practice, this is in favour of motion 1 in the Christian Democrats' motion. Secondly, the financial consequences of the authorisation are not further highlighted in the bill. The government also failed to request referrals from the business community on the memo. Despite the short consultation period and the resulting lack of preparation possibilities, a number of organisations nevertheless submitted spontaneous responses. Criticism was sharp. Among other things, Svensk Dagligvarorhandel, Svensk Handel, Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, Sveriges Apoteksförening, Privattandläkararna and Visita describe the importance of a regulatory framework that guarantees financial compensation for the activities affected by decisions that may follow from the Government's increased powers. We Christian Democrats therefore called on the government, by letters during the preparation of the bill, to ensure that a framework for compensation is in place when the law comes into force. It is regrettable that the government has not listened and that it has failed to ensure this. Instead, the Government writes in the bill that economic measures relating to any regulations should be considered in connection with the development of the individual regulations on measures. That is a step in the right direction. However, the regulations to be drawn up by means of the law are those that need to be dealt with urgently. Making individual economic impact assessments of each single regulation can be time-consuming. Because of the short deadline, there is also a risk of shortcomings. Nor does the government provide any indication that additional legislation or a new emergency package is being prepared focusing on these economic consequences. That's not good enough. The current economic crisis resulting from covid-19 is in part a crisis based on the fact that it has become virtually impossible for companies to plan for the future. The proposed law will add to that uncertainty. Supply and life's work are at stake. A clear framework for compensation for the economically affected would significantly reduce this uncertainty and counter the economic concerns that may arise from the current government's appropriations. We Christian Democrats therefore believe that the government should return to Parliament with a framework for financial compensation. I would therefore like to support our Amendment No 2, Madam President. It is necessary for the government to be able to take rapid action to combat covid-19. It is equally necessary that the measures be examined by the Riksdag so that accountability becomes possible. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Social Affairs, who are prepared in the usual way to listen to each other and find a way forward, which makes us today agree on the proposal contained in the report.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-15	Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemy has taught us to treasure things we took for granted just a few weeks ago: to be able to give and have a hug, to get to cuddle with Grandma and Grandpa, to avoid being worried about their loved ones and what is happening to people's lives and life's work. In many ways, the situation is difficult to grasp and in many ways it also feels unreal. In this serious pandemic, it is crucial to try to stop and prevent the spread of covid-19. It is also important to avoid the complete loss of the economy and security of the individual, of businesses and of the economy as a whole. This puts great values at risk in this crisis. It is literally about life or death, but also about bankruptcies and lives that are lost. Madam President, I would like The Government proposes that certain new provisions be introduced into the Disease Control Act, which gives the government increased power to act against the proliferation of covid-19. The new provisions are temporary and expire on the last June. It is a question of the government being given the right to prescribe the relationship between individuals and the general obligation of individuals or otherwise relates to interference in the personal or economic relations of individuals – but only if it is necessary for the protection of infection to deal with the virus causing covid-19. Sweden currently lacks legislation on civil crises. In order to meet the problems and challenges posed by covid-19, there is therefore a legitimate need to supplement the legislation in order to put the necessary measures in place in a timely manner. The fact that Sweden has no laws for civil crises and that we now give the government a temporary right to make specific regulations regarding the spread of infection requires that is one thing. But the way in which the government has chosen to prepare this is quite another matter. It should be quite clear to everyone that the government did not start preparing this proposal recently. They did not start on Thursday afternoon or evening as they began contacting the other parties. They had not started the days before either. This was a work that has been going on for a long time. This is not just any law. It gives the government far-reaching powers that can involve very far-reaching interventions in the lives of individuals. We in the Moderates have done what we have been able to do constructively to improve and strengthen the proposal that the government came to Parliament with. It is extremely important to stop and prevent escalating spread of infection, but also to take into account the fact that absolutely central values such as ownership and the right to financial compensation are ensured when individuals and businesses are faced with concrete restrictions as a result of the forthcoming decisions of the government or authorities. Madam President, I would like We share the view of the Law Council that the criticism expressed by the consultation bodies – that the period of referral has been far too short – is justified. The proposals in the bill mean that significant power is temporarily transferred from the Riksdag to the Government. In addition, it takes place in an area where decisions can be much of an intervention for individuals. It is therefore deeply unsatisfactory that the opposition in the Riksdag, the Law Council and the consultation bodies had so little time to analyse the proposals. However, the Moderates share the government's view: As Sweden currently lacks legislation on civil crises, there is a legitimate need – in order to be able to meet the problems and challenges posed by covid-19 – to supplement the legislation so that the necessary measures can be put in place in a timely manner. This means that the Moderates accept the government's need to present a bill to deal with the acute crisis. Madam President, I would like However, in a follow-up motion, the Moderates have pointed to the remaining shortcomings in the bill and put forward concrete proposals to address them. Among other things, we want the government to come back with proposals that mean that individuals affected by a regulation given under the authorisation in this law as a general rule should be replaced. It is a reservation that we share with the Christian Democrats. Furthermore, we want the Government to inform the parties of the Riksdag continuously when work is ongoing within the Government Office to produce new regulations with the support of the authorisation. We also want the government to be extremely careful about changing regulations, routines and handling in the midst of a burning crisis. This means that we agree with the unanimous consultation from Sweden Municipalities and Regions and believe that the Government's proposal to redistribute medicines and medical equipment between regions and municipalities should be deleted. Our proposal is that this should be limited to allowing the government to provide regulations on interaction and mutual trade in medicinal products and medical equipment in respect of regions and municipalities. I would therefore like to express my support for reservations 1 and 2 and to draw attention to our specific opinion. Madam President, I would like There have been strong reasons to supplement the original bill passed to the opposition, not least in order to achieve a more reasonable balance between parliament and government. This is particularly true of the fact that the decisions that the government will be able to take under the law can be very much intervention for individuals, as I have already pointed out. It is therefore positive that, following the views of the Moderates, the government has introduced a so-called subordination mechanism in the bill, which was completely missing in the first draft legislative referral addressed to the Moderates. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that Parliament, the government and the whole of Swedish society will jointly cope with the exceptional crisis that we are currently facing. It is quite clear that, in addition to the loss of life, many people and businesses will be hit very hard economically. How Sweden chooses to deal with the continuing crisis in the coming weeks and months will affect everyone in our country for a long time to come. My hope and that of the Moderates is that, despite increased powers, the government will choose the broad path of cooperation and mutual respect. Sweden cannot afford political squabbles and quarrels right now. The country's citizens expect and rightly demand that we be the adults in the room.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-32	Madam President, I would like Covid-19 threatens our health. That threatens many people's jobs and only income, Madam President. It threatens the money we need for school, care and health care both now and in the future in everyday life and during the next pandemic, which I hope will take a long time. It threatens the lives of fragile people. Many, many people in our country now lack other people they care about. And over 1,000 people are forever missing from their loved ones. In other countries, we also see how this infection and the fear of infection, Madam President, affect democracy and everyday human rights. It's about the right to go wherever we want without having to tell us exactly where we're going, which path we're choosing and how long we're going to be there. I am very pleased that we have not been as hard, authoritarian and coercive as they have been in those countries. I am very pleased that there is no sign that our government is trying to sneak in decisions that have nothing to do with it now that people look away and are busy with other things. I am pleased that, in the first place, we choose to recommend people, and in the end we appeal to them, to follow the recommendations we believe slow down the spread of the disease and allow the health care system time so that we protect the most fragile. At the same time, it is not possible to negotiate with a virus. And there may be a need for quick and effective decisions that we do not usually have to make and which we do not really want to make. Madam President, I would like The CDC Act today provides an opportunity to close a building if a person with a social disease is inside it so that that person does not come out and infect others. But there is no way to shut down a mall, a nightclub, a gym or a museum because you think like this: When people meet there, it will be too much. It will be fatal for fragile people in this area. It is also not possible today to close a train station to protect an area and protect the fragile there. We know that the state has an opportunity to take over vehicles or even people's services and assistance in the event of war or danger of war. But what we may need now, for example, is a private beauty clinic's narcotics and oxygen to save lives. All of this, of course, is interference with people's everyday freedom. It's not something we usually want. We don't want to stop people from meeting at a cafe. We do not want to take the important resources of an entrepreneur. But that could happen. My view and that of the Liberals is that this must, of course, be done with extreme caution. We must protect our democracy. We must safeguard people's right to govern their lives and to live as they wish. In the same way, however, we must protect the most fragile. This means that even if decisions need to be made with caution, they need to be made quickly once they are to be made. We in the Liberals support this temporary authorisation precisely because it may be necessary but also because it is temporary. There are suspenders and belt straps to ensure that every decision is truly justified. I also support the Liberals' reservation 3 to ensure that there is an independent evaluation if these measures are actually needed so that we learn for the future and so that we can quickly find out whether something has been handled wrong here and now. Overall, we consider that the need outweighs the risks. The risks are there; we cannot hide that. Together, however, we must protect those most affected by this virus. Medical care must be able to cope, and it must remain after that as a place where you are proud to go to work and tired but proud when you go home.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-43	Madam President, I would like After Mr Ankarberg's initial description of the matter, I feel that I can delete a part of my speech. That was very well described. Instead, I would like to start by thanking all the parties for their good cooperation in drafting the legislation on which we are debating and deciding today. The process has been very fast, and we have all sometimes felt frustration that it has not followed our normal processes and working methods. It is also legislation that gives us reason to weigh very carefully what we are opening up to. Moving power from the elected representatives of the parliament to the government is not a small decision, and it certainly should not be taken lightly. However, in the difficult situation of the current pandemic, we have all noted that existing legislation is not quite enough. In order to stop the spread of infection, more intervention measures may need to be put in place to protect life, health and society, and that is why today we are taking the decision to give the government a temporary authorisation under the Anti-Contagion Act for the virus that causes covid-19. This authorisation is complementary to existing rules and applies only to the coronavirus. It does not give the government the power to intervene in fundamental rights and freedoms and does not open up so-called state of emergency. It is a temporary law that is valid for three months. Then we will have the opportunity to decide whether the law needs to be extended. Of course, everyone wants the law not to have to be used or extended – that would mean that we have stopped the spread of the disease. However, it is important that the government has more tools in the fight against the Corona virus if it proves necessary. Today, when we look out over Stockholm, or by all means my hometown Örnsköldsvik, I think we can see that a great many people have taken on board the expert authorities' advice to combat the spread of infection. It is gratifying that our people have strong faith in our authorities and take on board the facts presented. I am also grateful for the tradition we have in Sweden that we politicians listen to the expert authorities, absorb the latest knowledge available and then make our political balances. That is why I assume that the government will continue with this approach even with the access it now receives to new tools. Madam President, I would like An important part of the authorisation is that the government should be able to provide specific regulations on interaction and mutual trade or redistribution between regions. These may be medical equipment, such as personal protective equipment or medical devices, and medicines. Here I have exactly the same hope as before. Of course, regions and municipalities will be able to cope with this redistribution and co-operation themselves, hopefully without the intervention of the government. Nevertheless, it is important that the possibility exists in the event of such a need. The Parliament will continue to have a very important control function because the measures that may be taken under this authorisation will be submitted to the parliamentary review as soon as possible. This means that if the Riksdag does not believe that the measure taken is reasonable and proportionate, the Riksdag can say no to it. Finally, Madam President, this legislation is truly extraordinary, in an extraordinary and very difficult situation for society. That is why I think it is an enormous strength that all of us, together, have taken a great deal of responsibility and worked hard to decide today on this temporary authorisation. I hope it never has to be used, but it is extremely necessary that it be there if the need arises. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-56	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are the biggest critics of the government. We think that so much has gone wrong in our country for so long that there is a need for a clearer and more effective opposition than the old parties have historically been. We have raised twice as many distrusts of Stefan Lövven's government as all the other parties together. When the government has made a real mistake, we have gone as far as to bring down the state budget, and so, Madam President, we will continue when the crisis is over. At the moment, our country is in a very serious situation. Hundreds of Swedes die every day. The Swedish economy is balancing at an abyss. We don't know how long this is going to last. We do not know how deep the crisis will be. We don't know how many people are going to die. But we know that we must be capable of action. We know we have to act. We know that we only get really strong when we help each other. Madam President, I would like This does not mean that we will stop saying what we think. When the government is too slow or when we think it does little, we will say so. We are putting forward our own proposals with measures that we are trying to persuade the government to take on board and which we hope it will implement. We are also doing what we can to improve the proposals made by the government. However, this is not a time for obstrusion. It's not a time to get in the way. This is ultimately about saving people's lives, and we intend to do everything we can to succeed in doing so. For us, it has also been crucial that this does not mean that the Prime Minister is given a free hand. It is important that the Riksdag retains its control over the government. We do not want any exemption legislation. That is why we are pleased that there is now a so-called catalogue in the bill, that is to say, a list of measures that the government can take with the support of this authorisation. We are also pleased that any action taken by the Government will be submitted to the Riksdag immediately. This new legislation now allows us to take more far-reaching measures than in the past to stop the spread of infection and to strengthen health care in the regions most affected. We hope that this will never have to be used, but at the same time we realise that it may well be needed. In fact, we think that the government should already start discussions on proposals in order to enable even more far-reaching measures – not because we want them to be used but because we need the tools in place. It can happen very quickly – suddenly we find ourselves in a situation like that in Italy or in Spain. Then it is better if we have had a well thought-out and thorough regulatory framework from the outset than if we need to stress something out, which I think was a little bit the case with this bill. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say something about all the entrepreneurs and employees who are hit very hard by this crisis. We've seen bankruptcies, premonitions and redundancies. We will do everything we can to ensure that companies make it through the crisis. Demand has fallen drastically in many sectors. We want to help companies overwinter, as they say, so that they remain when demand can start rising again. That is why we have proposed very comprehensive support measures. And we think that if the government takes action on the basis of this law that affects traders negatively, then it should also include an opportunity for them to get compensation. I support the proposal.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-68	Madam President, I would like Yesterday, a unanimous social committee examined the legislative proposal for an increased authorisation in the legislation on infectious diseases, which allows the government to take decisions quickly in order to limit the spread of covid-19. Last week the draft law was also dealt with by the Constitutional Committee, which proposed, among other things, a limitation of the proposal whereby the Government may only issue regulations in situations requiring such rapid action that parliamentary treatment would risk delaying the measures with serious consequences. This restricts the government's room for manoeuvre, and I think that was what led a unanimous social committee to support the proposal. Sweden is currently in a serious situation due to the covid-19 coronavirus. The global pandemic affects all of us in society. It feels like the world is in some way paused, but still everything is going on high. In politics, in particular, decisions are taken at a raging pace to prevent or mitigate the spread of infection and to level out the curve in order for care to be able to cope with and to reduce or mitigate the economic consequences. It is a time that many of us could hardly imagine that we were going through. To date, a whole series of measures have been taken. However, the coronavirus outbreak may place greater demands on even more urgent government action. This could include decisions on regulations that in a normal situation could have passed through the Riksdag. Already today, there are authorisations in the legislation on the protection of infectious diseases that allow the government to decide on regulations by means of regulations. However, both the Law Council and the Government consider that they are to some extent insufficient to meet the challenges posed by the spread of the virus that causes covid-19. For this reason, we stand here today to take a decision on a new authorisation, which is proposed to enter into force on 18 April and to expire at the end of June 2020. The bill allows the government, for example, to provide regulations on, among other things, temporary restrictions on crowds and various closures. It also allows for mutual trade in or redistribution of medicinal products, protective materials and medical equipment between and within regions. That is a very important aspect. In addition to the fact that regulations may relate only to specified measures, they shall also be temporary, shall be aimed at stopping the transmission of the virus covid-19 and shall apply only within the scope of the disease protection act. Since we are in an extraordinary position and the law is limited in time and is valid for three months, it can be considered acceptable with all these limitations. A decision such as this, which means that the government is given increased powers, is very difficult to make. For the Center Party in particular, there are three aspects that have been important in the negotiations. Firstly, there must be broad agreement in Parliament on the decision. It is a top priority that the decision is well established and that the parties feel involved. Secondly, we have stated that it is important for Parliament to be kept informed and properly informed. The Riksdag must be involved in the process, and the decisions of the Riksdag must be taken immediately in connection with the Government's decision. The third aspect that has guided us is that the traders affected by any decisions should be financially compensated. Given the complexity and difficulty of making such a decision in the midst of a crisis, it would be desirable for legislation for crises to be in place already in peacetime. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our municipalities and regions and all the staff who are doing great work on a daily basis. It is impressive to see how in just a few weeks we have been able to switch up and expand capacity, such as the number of IVA sites with double. I would also like to point out that our municipalities and regions are doing an amazing job today and working together in a way that impresses us. It coordinates IVA sites, relieves each other and takes over patients if necessary. I know, for example, that nine different regions currently relieve and support and help Södermanland, which is under strain and strain at the moment. It's amazing. I hope that the temporary law will have to be used as little as possible. State authorities, regions and municipalities and private actors are already working together to meet and treat patients as effectively as possible. It gives me good hope that things will continue to work. However, having the legislation in place in order to be able to quickly take the right measures to prevent the spread of infection and effectively treat patients affected may become the difference between life and death. With this, I would like to support the proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-84	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking all those who are working out there in the health care sector and in the care of the elderly. They work day and night. I want to thank the authorities. The Public Health Agency acts calmly, objectively and knowledgeably. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has flogged on supplies of protective equipment to the whole of Sweden. I would like to thank the regions for their good cooperation. The transition in Sweden has been huge. As the previous speaker said, we have doubled the number of intensive care places. It's amazing. But, Madam President, we were also extremely ill prepared for covid-19. There were no national stocks of medicine or protective equipment. The last thing disappeared when Apoteket AB was liberalised. There were no major pandemic warehouses in Stockholm, Västra Götaland or Skåne even though the National Board of Health and Welfare has requested this to all regions. We have made it this far thanks to dedicated and competent healthcare professionals and authorities with integrity. Post-covid needs to upgrade public health care and care for the elderly. It is not enough applause; efforts must be made. We also believe that we cannot rely on the market at all times. Madam President, I would like We are now discussing temporary appropriations under the CDC. We all agree that this is necessary. But the process has been a bit like running orienteering with different maps – relatively unpredictable. For example, it is self-evident that all parties should have received the final draft legislative referral at the same time and in good time before the government's decision, but unfortunately that was not the case. Nor has the government presented a timetable for handling the matter, and a number of meetings could have been derailed. Fortunately, they did not, but the risk could have been avoided with a better and stable process. We have rewritten this in a separate opinion. Madam President, I would like Several consultative bodies have criticised the consultation procedure. Among other things, the Ombudsman has stated that the period of referral, which ran for 24 hours and also for a weekend, was far too short. In this way, the consultation bodies may not have had a real opportunity to consider the proposals. The Left Party has every understanding that the matter in question needed to be dealt with quickly, given the serious situation that exists in Sweden, in Europe and in the world. However, as is clear, we believe that there is reason to be critical of the government's handling of the matter. We expect better anticipation from the government in similar matters in the future. We also hope that we will not have to deal with similar matters in the future, Madam President. We in the Left support the Government's proposal for changes to the Disease Control Act, which will be valid for three months. It should be said once again that this is completely covidorientated – there is no coup d'état being prepared. The committee also makes it clear that the government will only be allowed to intervene through such decisions if there is no possibility at all or no time to wait for Parliament's go-ahead. All possibilities must be exhausted. This is a clarification that was not included in the government proposal from the beginning. Madam President, I would like I would like to say something about financial suffering in connection with this. We see financial suffering every day in society – we can only walk the streets and watch toy shops without customers. The same goes for restaurants and so on. Many people today have enormous economic suffering, especially small businesses. However, with regard to, for example, a bar that does not comply with the regulations that exist, but has full clearance in the premises, I find it very difficult to understand that you would get money for suffering, Madam President. At a time of deep crisis, it is important for the state to be able to intervene when we see, for example, that a region is extremely difficult with protective equipment. If the regions are not helped to distribute protective equipment, the state must go in, but I hope it does not land there. I believe that the regions will resolve this among themselves, also together with the National Board of Health and Welfare as coordinator. Moreover – and this may not be surprising to many – the Left encourages private health care providers and other private actors, such as all those who have beauty clinics in this city, to play their part if necessary. It cannot be voluntary in this case. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal in the Social Affairs Committee's report and reject all motions.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-99	Madam President, I would like We are at war with an invisible enemy. We are at war with a virus — a virus that has spread rapidly across our earth and is reaping life on all our continents. No one has ever met this enemy before, so no one is immune either. There are no medicines, nor is there any vaccine. Yesterday we counted 1 203 deaths in Sweden. In the world, the WHO reports that we are 125,000 dead, and many more we know it will be. Madam President, I would like Most of the world has been forced into extreme and extraordinary measures. Countries have basically been shut down. People have lost their jobs, many are in quarantine and too many have already died. The case is, and it's getting hard. The world will never be the same again. Madam President, I would like The government parties have been working day and night in recent months to do what is part of our work and to reduce the number of deaths we will see and the suffering and economic losses that this pandemic results in. Health care personnel are doing an outstanding job-- they're our real heroes here. The Swedish National Board of Health, the Swedish Public Health Agency, MSB and the Swedish Armed Forces – they all work in a situation where Sweden, tragically, lacked the preparedness we should have had before the pandemic came. This is something we have to work on very much even after the pandemic. Madam President, I would like In the form of government, there are special rules for decision-making for the governments and other bodies during war and war danger. The same is missing for events like this in peacetime crises. In this case, the government has had to rely on the Disease Control Act. It gives in itself quite large powers, but these may not be enough. Apart from the fact that this needs to be reviewed at a calm pace, so that we are faced with possible future crises of this magnitude not without such laws, we need to review and broaden the Anti-Contagion Act right now in this crisis. Why? Yes, situations may arise when the Public Health Agency thinks we need to act quickly. We try to flatten the curve so that the care will have time to take care of all those who need intensive care. In order for the care to be provided, we need to do something very quickly. If we do not have time for a proper parliamentary decision in the order that we are used to, we need other conditions and other tools to be able to introduce things directly. But, my friends, this is really important: the tool that we are making decisions about today can only be used when it is not possible to have regular parliamentary treatment, and only then. If the decision is taken by the government through this extended possibility – this tool – it is also written in that it should go to the Riksdag just afterwards for consideration. We must always protect our democracy. We hope that this authorization to the government will never have to be used, but it is very important that it is in place. I am very proud to live in a country where – at least until now – we have been able to deal with the situation because people have such great confidence in experts and authorities that they actually listen and do things of their own accord. You stay at home if you're the least sick. You work from home. You do everything you can to level out the curve. I am proud of that, and I hope that we can continue to use this approach. Many countries in the world are now looking at us with admiration. With these words, I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-113	Madam President, I would like We live in the midst of a pandemic that affects us all here in Sweden and all over the world at the same time. It is important that we each do what we can to flatten the curve. Together we therefore follow the Swedish Public Health Agency's recommendations to reduce the spread of the coronavirus, which means that we get the disease covid-19. We'll stay home if we have the slightest cold symptoms. We're coughing in the arm fold. We'll work from home if we can. We're opting out of travel that's not necessary. We keep physical distance from each other, and we wash our hands thoroughly and frequently. None of us want to get sick, but it is particularly important that those who are particularly fragile and vulnerable are not infected with the Corona virus. Should they become ill in covid-19, the risk is higher that they will have a serious disease course that may need advanced hospitalization. Those who are fragile and particularly vulnerable may therefore need stronger protection than the Public Health Authority's recommendations that apply to all of us. But who are extra vulnerable? Yes, we know that they are over 70 years of age at risk. But who are fragile and extra vulnerable by people of what we call working age? Today we do not have the answer to this important question. It is therefore important and necessary for the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare – the Swedish Agency for Health and Welfare – to produce a basis that describes who can be considered to belong to a risk group regarding covid-19. I am therefore pleased that the Committee on Social Affairs has agreed on a declaration following a proposal for a committee initiative by the Moderates. We want the Government to instruct the National Board of Health and Welfare to define by 21 April those groups of working age that, based on illness, diagnosis, illness or ongoing treatment, are deemed to be at risk of a serious disease progression in covid-19. The National Board of Health and Welfare shall also assess whether pregnant women can be considered to belong to a risk group during any part of the pregnancy. Finally, the Authority shall analyse whether there is a need from the point of view of disease protection for persons having a family relationship with children or other persons who are fragile temporarily abstaining from work outside the home. The Social Committee also calls on the Government to return to the Riksdag as soon as possible on the basis of the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare with a proposal to ensure that these fragile and particularly vulnerable persons are given effective protection through the social security system for a limited period of time. Madam President, I would like For us Christian Democrats, this is an important proposal. These are those who are particularly vulnerable due to a disability, illness or perhaps because of the treatment you are undergoing right now. It can also be about parents whose children, for example, are extra vulnerable due to a disability or just completed cancer treatment. It can also be about the one who is soon expecting a child and at the end of the day should be extra vigilant in order to avoid infection for himself and the child as well as the maternity department that you are going to when it is time. The boundaries will be difficult. It is obvious that mainly factors based on disease history or disability are what affect, but environmental factors in the workplace also play a role. If you can work from home or be relocated to carry out other tasks where the risk of infection is low, it probably works well to continue working. But for those who, for example, have many contacts with other people in their work, it is important to be able to give up work and to be able to do so without being affected financially. By strengthening this safety net, we are primarily reducing the risk that the extra vulnerable will suffer from covid-19. It is a human gain in itself, but it can also reduce the burden on health care. It is important for healthcare professionals to be able to carry on with the amazing and lifesaving work they are doing today and all other days. Madam President, I would like Today we are not dealing with a complete proposal, but as soon as possible the government will return to the Riksdag for examination. It remains to be seen whether the compensation is best dealt with as an extended infectivity allowance or in any other way within the framework of social security. The pandemic will require special and extraordinary measures for a while longer. That is why the committee's proposal hastens. But it is also a proposal for a limited period of time. The proposal should not burden health care with additional administrative tasks. At the same time, there must be scope for control so that the proposal meets the right people. We Christian Democrats would like to emphasise that it is extremely urgent that there should be a substitute for those people who are particularly vulnerable and therefore unable to work under the coronapndemin. There are some knots that remain to be solved, but we fully support this proposal, which is a first important step.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-125	Madam President, I would like As I said in the previous debate, the very serious situation with the spread of the Corona virus requires us to seek ways forward in all areas to protect life, health and society. As a representative of the government parties, I feel extremely confident that the government is doing everything in its power to bring society through this very serious and difficult situation in all its policies. However, it is not enough that only I feel safe, but I want the representatives of all parties to be able to feel confident that the government is actually doing everything that is practically possible to protect people's health and life and society. That is why we Social Democrats chose to say 'yes' to this committee initiative, which originally came from the Moderates, concerning the remuneration of particularly vulnerable individuals of working age. Although I was aware that the government was already looking at this issue and had seen the problem, I think it is good that together we are helping to further increase the focus. I should also like to thank you for your constructive cooperation in committee, which led to an initiative on which we could agree. When we have constructive dialogues, we move forward. Perhaps we can learn from that for the future. What is happening now, as Acko Ankarberg described, is that the National Board of Health and Welfare, on behalf of the Government, should identify as soon as possible those risk groups that are most likely to suffer from a particularly serious disease course if they were to be infected by covid-19. These can be underlying diseases or ongoing treatments, for example. Children, with their parents of course, and pregnant women with special risk should also be identified. Of course, I and probably everyone with me wish this compensation to be put in place as soon as possible. However, it is important that the right groups are included and that no group is left out who would need the compensation. It is also important to remember that the National Board of Health and Welfare is not responsible for designing financial support. This therefore needs to be done as soon as possible after the risk groups have been identified. This must not be quick and wrong; it must be swift and right. What I can understand is that it is not easy to look at how other countries have solved such a question, because I have not found any country that has this kind of financial compensation for the form we are discussing in committee today, that is, for healthy people of working age who are allowed to give up work outside the home in order to protect against infection and who receive financial compensation from the state. This is extremely important and good, and I am pleased that we are continuing this work together. However, the decision we are making today will not be clear; the work must continue. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-134	Madam President, I would like In the tracks of the coronapndemine, many people are currently feeling a great worry about life and health. It may be for loved ones at all and especially for the elderly loved ones, as we know, are in a particular risk group. But for additional people in the so-called risk group, the concern is particularly great. Madam President, I would like In recent weeks, many troubled people have heard from themselves in different ways. For example, for various reasons people have a reduced immune system or lung capacity or are parents of children who are ill in different ways. It can be a person who has overcome a severe cancer disease where the tough treatments have given a severely compromised immune system. However, the willingness, desire and ability to work have made the person in question work part- or full-time. So you are in some sense healthy or about to recover, but you find yourself in a difficult situation where you are exposed to infection. Many will be in touch, and one of these is Desiré. She's a woman with a congenital heart condition and a pacemaker. According to her cardiologist, she is in a high-risk group and has been on sick leave, but Försäkringskassan has refused sickness benefit. She is working today half-time and feels that she is now being sacrificed when she is forced back to work. For her, contamination would mean disaster as she already has fluid in her lungs because of heart failure. She is one of many, Madam President. For these people, the current situation with the spread of covid-19 is a great concern and a great risk. Being forced to go to work and expose yourself to a risk of infection when in such a risk group is tough. I think everyone can imagine that worry. The alternative is not to have any or a severely impaired income and then have to worry about how the rent and food should be paid. Not everyone can work from home or avoid many contacts in their work. I would like to emphasise, Madam President, that these people may be very dependent on care in an already hard-tested situation. As the current social security or disease protection system does not contain financial compensation to meet the needs, the concerns of these groups have escalated. We Moderates suggested that an increase in the amount of infectivity pay could be an opportunity to help these people. After many weeks of waiting for the government to act on the matter, we saw ourselves forced to put a committee initiative on Parliament's table in order to get the government to act. Madam President, I would like In our committee initiative, we proposed that the circle of people who can receive a carrier's allowance should be temporarily extended. We pointed out a possible solution in the Social Security Code where people with, for example, compromised immune systems or severe lung diseases or parents of severely ill children could be addressed. To our great pleasure, we Moderates brought together a united social committee on this issue. That is why today it is on Parliament's table to decide on an announcement to the government to find measures that protect particularly vulnerable groups of working age. The important thing for us Moderates is not what the remuneration gets for name or construction, and we have great respect for the fact that the risk groups are difficult to demarcate. What is important is that the work is done and that we find a solution to how compensation is to be paid and that these people's concerns can end. We also proposed that this should be done without imposing an increased administrative burden and that the requirement for the current medical certificate should be temporarily abolished as healthcare is now under enormous pressure. We agree with the committee's common position on the possibility of joint control while ensuring that the administration of payments is effective. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Social Affairs for their swift and consistent action. The government has acted slowly, but through our initiative, Parliament has worked together to find a quick and constructive solution. The expectation of the government now to return, preferably in the next week, with a solution that is jointly high. Madam President, I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-143	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. The number of deaths in the Corona virus in Sweden continues to increase every day. Everything suggests that, not only in the coming weeks but rather for months to come, we will continue to lose people to covid-19. Today, we do not know who is infected, and who thereby unwittingly infects others, or how large the total number of infected people in Sweden is. In other words, every day increases the importance of protecting Sweden's risk groups in all possible ways. The Corona virus has proved to be a great risk to our elderly, and it grieves me that we have failed to keep the infection away from the country's retirement homes. If there is something that we will have to look at and evaluate afterwards, it is precisely how we could fail to keep our elderly people away from infection and how we could let the infection get to them in almost the whole country's care for the elderly. Having said that, there are also other groups that are particularly susceptible to infection and that we urgently need to ensure that we protect to a greater extent. It is therefore important to define more clearly which groups are involved. These may be multi-sickness, people with disabilities, people with impaired lung capacity, pregnant women and others. These are groups which, for their own sake as well as for the sake of society as a whole, must be protected to a greater extent than is happening today. But, Madam President, that is easier said than done. As I have already mentioned, we failed to protect the elderly who were already in our care for the elderly, on specific accommodations that one might think should have been possible to isolate from day one. In the report, however, we are talking about risk groups of working age who are all over society, in their respective workplaces. There is therefore a need to define precisely which groups are at risk of being particularly affected by the Corona virus. These groups must then be given the opportunity to stay at home from work in order to minimise the risk of infection and death. In order to die, Madam President, they are in danger of being infected. At the same time, we must ensure that their concerns about the infection are not merely replaced by anxiety about the private economy. In other words, we must ensure that they are awarded a reasonable remuneration during this period of time. Madam President, I would like We are talking about people who both contribute today and contributed yesterday to society, went to work, guaranteed tax revenue and played their part. It is people who will return to doing just that after the pandemic, but then the public must increase the opportunity for them to actually cope with it. One of them is my uncle in Mariestad, who is at risk of belonging to a risk group of congenital impairments. He is doing his utmost today to limit his exposure to infection, but at the same time he must go to work. That is, of course, something that is currently associated with concern as well as risk to both him and the family. It is for his sake, as well as for everyone else involved, that we support this initiative. Madam President, I would like It should also be mentioned that many people today live with a close relative belonging to a risk group. The fact that these people too should be able to refrain from working outside the home is something that needs to be reviewed. Of course, it is a small comfort to those who are able to stay at home with compensation if they are then infected as a consequence of having to go to work in the household. People in vulnerable groups must receive effective protection through the social security system for a limited period of time, and we therefore support the inclusion of more groups, such as pregnant women, in particularly vulnerable groups and the fact that they are now effectively and quickly receiving financial support, such as infectivity compensation. We would also like to stress the importance of not missing the group that may have previously been secured and which belongs to a risk group in the proposal. Today there are many people who have unfortunately fallen between the seats because they have been considered to be able to take a job in the labour market but at the same time have not been seen as employable. It may be worth considering these people as well. It is our view that it can be considered neither reasonable nor humane that persons belonging to risk groups at present should be expected to be at the disposal of the labour market. Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats protect Sweden's population and want to do everything in our power to create security for those who are particularly vulnerable and to save as many lives as possible during this crisis.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-158	Madam President, I would like Yesterday, a unanimous social committee decided to investigate an extended allowance for the Corona virus. The dissemination of covid-19 affects the whole of society and means limitations in people's everyday lives. For some groups, this means particularly high risks. A clear risk factor for a serious illness is old age, that is, 70 years and older. But even people with other risk factors, such as underlying diseases, may also need to be protected. The Public Health Agency encourages those who can work from home. The fewer people move around in society, the less risk of transmission. However, not all professions have this possibility. Under the current rules, infectivity pay is paid to persons who have or may be presumed to have an infectious disease and who are able to work but who should be at home because of the risk of infection. People who are at risk of spreading infection or who have been exposed to infection without being sick in the disease are also covered. But today's rules require a medical certificate. What we now want to do is to give people who belong to risk groups, or who have children who belong to risk groups, and who cannot work from home the opportunity to stay home with compensation. This measure will help protect particularly vulnerable groups of patients. But the mission is not simple. Calling in the risk groups is a task that we must take very seriously, especially in order to protect the right people, but also in order not to create unnecessary anxiety and keep people away from work unnecessarily. Identifying who belongs to a risk group is not something that we politicians cannot and should not do. It's a mission that our experts will look at and produce data for, all to make sure we meet the right ones. That is why I think it is wise to allow the National Board of Health and Welfare to identify particularly vulnerable risk groups and how a member of a risk group should be granted, so that a proposal can then be made for an increase in the amount of the disease carrier's allowance. But it's not just about the one who belongs to the risk group. Those living close to a person at risk may also need to be covered. We are now taking these measures to relieve the burden of care, but also to provide security among the people at risk. With this, I would like to support the proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-167	Madam President, I would like Sweden, Europe and the world are in an extremely difficult position. We live under severe pressure from the health, economic and mental point of view, and we all need to limit ourselves. I have to say that I think things have gone quite well. However, for some groups in society, the corona virus poses a particularly high risk. We've mentioned the elderly. People over 70 years of age who have an underlying disease are definitely at risk. But there are also other vulnerable groups. A lot of us can work at home. For example, a number of us in Parliament can do this. But there are others who can't work at home. This is also ultimately a class issue. It's about the bus driver, the clerk, the preschool teacher, the teacher, and so on. This means that even if these people have an underlying disease, many of them actually go to work. Of course, they're not supposed to. Madam President, I would like Defining which groups have a particular need to be protected against infection and which should be able to receive this compensation is an extremely important issue. It is not we in committee who should, so to speak, write this list. Today it looks like a lot of people are becoming epidemiologists. A large part of Sweden's population has attended some kind of rapid education. However, I think that this question should be passed on to the experts. So have we. We've handed it over to the National Board of Health and Welfare. The National Board of Health and Welfare will return with this list of vulnerable groups by 21 April. That sounds praiseworthy. Let's take a look at it. In this context, it should also be assessed whether, for example, pregnant women during any part of the pregnancy can be considered to belong to such a risk group. This is quite complicated. The National Board of Health and Welfare will also look at the disease prevention perspective and the people belonging to these risk groups. It may also be that in a family you have a child who is seriously ill and who, for example, undergo cancer treatment and so on. Then the government will come back with its proposal. I think this can be very good, and I think a lot of people can breathe out. It's about those who have an underlying disease. Those who feel that they still have to go to work and who cannot work at home will be able to get this money. It is a question of examining the social security system so that we can see what we can do about this. I therefore support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-172	Madam President, I would like We notice very clearly that our country is in a very tight position and, above all, many people are under very great pressure. Many are burdened with disappointment – cancellations of student receptions and 80-year-olds. A lot of people are lonely, and it's a lot of grief. And everyday life is different for the vast majority of us in different ways. Some work considerably more, and others work less or in a different way. We all need to do our part. We all need to adapt and limit our lives. But for some people this is especially difficult. For some people, the new Corona virus is directly lethal. By now we know that the main risk factor is to have lived for a long time. However, some underlying severe diseases – severe heart disease, immunodeficiency, lung diseases that make it impossible to cope with severe and double pneumonia – can lead to a very serious progression of the disease regardless of age. It applies to adults, and it also applies to some children. What, then, are these people going to do, those who normally should be able to go to work despite their illness or even their children suffering from problems with immune systems and the like? What are they gonna do now if they can't work remotely? I am pleased that our answer is: you should not have to worry. You're supposed to have good protection. Madam President, I would like I am very happy and grateful for what we are going to decide on today. This means that we need to find out which underlying diseases make people extra vulnerable. This must be clearly defined and defined in order for us to ensure that these people then have the opportunity to stay at home to protect themselves or to protect someone who is very important to them. That's it. Here I think a big and warm thank you is in her place to Camilla Waltersson Grönvall for her humanity, care and toil to protect the most vulnerable. I would also like to thank all of you – my colleagues in the Social Committee, Lena Hallengren and officials who I know work overtime and work hard because every day is important to find a way so that it becomes possible as soon as possible to strengthen the protection of the most vulnerable. Thank you Camilla and thank you all!
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-177	Madam President, I would like The virus that causes covid-19 affects us and our society very hard. It's a new virus that we don't know much about yet. There are no medicines yet, and there is no vaccine. All we have at our worst is intensive care that can help with breathing while the body heals itself. Researchers learn more day by day, but we have to work faster than that. Madam President, I would like We know that those who are older are at greater risk of both being affected by the disease and becoming ill very difficult – and unfortunately also to go away in covid-19. However, we know that certain groups of working age, or some schoolchildren for that matter, are also particularly vulnerable. We really need to do something to protect them too. Therefore, I am very pleased that a unanimous social committee has decided to ask the government to instruct the National Board of Health and Welfare to identify the groups that need this extra protection in our society, so that they can stay home from work. We know that we all work with social distance when we are out in society, but we also know that it is sometimes crowded in local traffic, for example. It is therefore important that we look not only at the risk groups, i.e. those at risk of being severely affected, but also at their families. We need to look at the children at risk; we may need to make sure that their parents can be at home to protect the children. Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that Camilla Grönvall took this initiative in committee. I know there were discussions also in the work of the government, but I am glad that we have come to a quick decision and that we have all worked so well together. Actually, I think we do it all the time here. We in Parliament's parties and in the Social Committee work so incredibly well, together, to make the best of the situation we are in. With those words, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-181	Madam President, I would like Of course, we support all our motions, which are dealt with in the report, but since many of them have been dealt with and supported in a simplistic way, I will not touch on them all in this speech. I refer to what the party said on these issues last year. Having said that, I am in favour of the Swedish Democrats' reservation in this report, which therefore concerns Parliament's working methods. Much can be said about Parliament's working methods in these times. Of course, the current solution is not optimal in any way, but in these times of crisis it is probably the best way forward. It shows that it is possible to solve problems if the political will exists. At this moment the will of the people is expressed through 55 members, preferably from Stockholm. In healthy and non-crisis parliamentary democracy, the will of the people is expressed through the parliament set up after free and universal elections. In order for popular government to have a full impact, it is important that the constitution and subsequent formation of the newly elected parliament are permeated by well-defined and pre-known rules. Former Parliaments have been able to rely to some extent on the practice of reflecting the results of the elections in important personal elections such as the appointment of Presidents or the appointment of Bureau posts. However, after the 2018 elections, practice has been loosened by the fact that several parties have formed a cartel and in this way excluded other parties from being awarded posts they should have actually had given their election results. It is therefore necessary to clarify the rules governing personal elections within the Riksdag so that the Speakers of the Riksdag and the bureau posts in all committees of the Riksdag better reflect the outcome of the elections and the subsequent formation of the government. Such a review should be made best by a parliamentary committee.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-187	Madam President, I would like The vulnerability of our society has become so obvious in recent months that I believe it cannot have escaped anyone. This applies to all parts of society, not least how our democracy can continue to function satisfactorily when society is tested – for example, as it is now – in a pandemic. What we are dealing with here today is a report entitled The Parliamentary Working Forms, and without reducing the motions in the report, they do not concern the very precarious situation we are in now. Instead, the proposals that have come in during the general period of exercise are about things such as the Members' fees, a little new grip on the parliamentary exercise, how we choose the Speaker and the establishment of a possible Speaker's residence. There are also some motions about which newspapers the Riksdag subscribes to and in what form, i.e. whether we do it physically or digitally. None of the motions have been raised by the Moderates, and I therefore reject the motions in the report. I believe that we will have the opportunity to return to Parliament's working arrangements at a later date, to highlight just how they may need to be changed further in times of crisis.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-190	Madam President, I would like Just as was suggested by Ida, I think it feels a little odd and strange to stand here and talk about these movements, which were written last autumn – in a completely different time and a completely different reality. Nevertheless, it is important that we deal with the proposals that have been put forward; a new normality will come when this crisis is over. It is important that the Riksdag works despite the fact that many cannot travel here and that many are isolated. Many people also participate in the work from home, of course – although only 55 members vote, there are many more of us who actively participate in the work from elsewhere. Last week the Committee on Constitutional Affairs gave its opinion to the Committee on Social Affairs on the authorisations granted to the government under the disease control law for the virus that causes covid-19. There, the KU agreed on the need for a review of the conditions for taking action in the context of national crises. We will certainly also need to evaluate how the Riksdag has handled the situation and look at how the Riksdag will perform its tasks in the event of national crises in the future. Both the tasks of the Government and the Riksdag and the opportunities to act in such situations will need to be discussed. But these are difficult issues that require careful balance. That is why it is not something that should be brought to the fore right now when the crisis is going on. It is now Parliament's working methods based on the motions presented this autumn that we are dealing with today. As has been said before, this is a motion report with a bit of mixed compote. This applies, for example, to the way we sit in this room, climate compensation for air travel and any compensation for business trips by bicycle. All exercise is rejected. The Left Party has no reservation, but we have a special opinion. There are several motions in the report that have been dealt with in simplified form. The committee refers to what was said last time the issue was raised for decision. Among the motions discussed in this way is a motion from the Left Party which states that we believe that MEPs' fees should be reduced and bound to 100 per cent of the price base amount. Members of Parliament's fees have risen sharply in the last 20 years. In addition, the tax changes that have been made have meant that we as Members of Parliament earn thousands of extras per month. It risks, of course, creating a confidence gap between us elected representatives and the people we are set to represent. The Left Party feels the same way about this as we did last year. However, since the motion is not dealt with in substance in the report, we have made no new reservation. As far as the other motions are concerned, we share the view of the committee that they should be rejected.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-198	Madam President, I would like I will begin by saying that we Moderates naturally support all of our reservations. However, in order for the vote later this afternoon not to be so long, I only support reservation No 1. This issue concerns some of the main pillars of our democracy: the right to speak freely and the right to free and independent media. At a time when disinformation is being disseminated both organised and by their own machines, these very rights are crucial for the survival of our democracy. This means that we must always defend our freedom of expression, our freedom of the press and our free media. In a survey conducted in 2019 by the Department of Journalism, Media and Communication, JMG, at the University of Gothenburg in collaboration with the Swedish Journalist Association, nearly 30 percent of journalists in Sweden reported that they had received threats during the past year. These data have also been confirmed repeatedly for several years in a series of similar studies. It should be said in this context that it is of course serious whoever is exposed to threats, violence and harassment. However, threats to democracy and particularly important democratic institutions are threats which, in addition to affecting the individual, are also damaging to us all and weakening our common democratic society. Threats to judges, police officers and journalists, for example, put us at risk of having a society where power is under review, an evasive judiciary and a quieter democratic dialogue that can lead to self-censorship. That would be deeply unfortunate. It is therefore the responsibility of all of us to think and make proposals and take steps to put an end to this. We Moderates have already brought with us the other parties in the Riksdag that more needs to be done to prevent this. As the report says very well, a great deal is now being done to increase knowledge, to increase security and to increase support for media engagements. It is partly about what editors themselves can take for security measures, which of the measures have the best effect, how to report crimes and support when reporting crimes. It is about communication efforts and how the police can improve their work and improve contact with vulnerable people. However, we believe that more needs to be done and, in particular, increased criminal liability for this type of crime needs to be reviewed. It has also been addressed in numerous investigations over the years but is not yet in place. While journalistic freedom must be safeguarded, it is also threatened by conscious disinformation and propaganda, which I began by talking about. It happens as part of hybrid warfare countries and nations between nations. Modern warfare is simply no longer done only with weapons, but also in our media. In our opinion, therefore, an investigation should be carried out into whether the Constitution could provide for the possibility of introducing, by ordinary law, provisions to intervene against the continuation of a supply of propaganda. If we are to speak clearly, it is often mainly aimed at media consumers in countries other than Sweden but within the EU and is part of hybrid warfare. There are examples of this. We must not allow our liberal rules to be used at our expense and at the expense of our sister democracies. These are difficult questions. Nevertheless, they are important and we need to deal with them.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-205	Madam President, I would like Of course, we support all the motions. However, in order to gain time, I only ask for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 4. Madam President, I would like Public services, together with the Freedom of the Press Act and the Freedom of Expression Act, are the cornerstones of our media system and, in the long run, of our democracy. In recent years public services have been or have not been debated frequently. For the Swedish Democrats, public service plays an important role as it is to be regarded as a general interest. Public service has an important basic task in working with the provision of qualitative social information and a wide range of Swedish and Nordic film and television productions. In addition, it also has a particularly important task to be a uniting force and to ensure that significant information reaches the entire population in crisis situations. We see that not least now during the Corona epidemic. It is therefore important that public services receive the resources they need to carry out the task assigned to them. Unfortunately, in recent years, many public service broadcasters feel that they have failed in their mission of objectivity and impartial content. We believe that some of the country's current problems could have been alleviated or avoided if the citizens had been fully aware and understood of the consequences of certain political proposals. There is talk of an opinion corridor throughout the media sphere, an opinion corridor which, unfortunately, has remained within the public service. The media system becomes strong by a third state power that not only examines public power but also examines and spurs each other to higher quality and objectivity in its reporting and scrutiny. Public service plays an important role in this composition of media. It is therefore extremely worrying about the lack of objectivity and impartiality in the content of the public service broadcasters. In our motion, we present various proposals for mechanisms that we believe can strengthen the objectivity and impartiality of public services while further protecting companies from political governance and the influence of political leaders. Among other things, we propose deeper cooperation in news reporting between the Nordic countries. We are looking at a kind of reference review system between the Nordic countries, where the different countries' companies coordinate opportunities to give each other constructive criticism. Furthermore, we also want to strengthen the review committee with a purely scientific council that consistently checks the accuracy and accuracy of information where a notification has been made. We also have suggestions on how to increase public service confidence by better exposing corrections than today. It is human to err, but the one who is prepared to admit his mistakes and try to correct them has the honour. Madam President, I would like We see major changes in our media consumption and in media companies' content. Media companies now specialize not only in a single format, but the trend is for media companies to deal with both television and radio and text-based content. In order for the public service broadcasters to remain relevant in the media sphere of the future, they must adapt to these developments. This is another reason for reforming public services. The Swedish Democrats want to see a review of public service and its surrounding systems. That is why we propose that the Government set up a major investigation that takes into account the proposals we put forward and makes its own proposals on how to construct a new, more modern public service system with strong built-in mechanisms that, as far as possible, form the basis for an impartial media actor. Madam President, I would like As far as the other media are concerned, there is a consensus that their main task is to review and control the powers, institutions and actors in democracy. This, together with the Freedom of the Press Act and the Freedom of Expression Act, forms one of the foundations of Swedish democracy. The media players, through their great influence, have a great opportunity to influence the debate on society. This power is an enormous responsibility for breadth, depth and perspective in reportage and scrutiny. It is therefore of the utmost importance that media reporting is multifaceted, nuanced and factual. However, a certain jargon and certain narrow truths can always take hold in a closed circuit or group. Such developments in the media sector can ultimately lead to distortions and monolithicity in the information reaching citizens, which has a negative impact on democracy. In recent years, the number of so-called news avoiders, who feel a loss of confidence in traditional media, has increased. There has been a discussion about the existence of an opinion corridor and that there are topics that Swedish established media have not sufficiently highlighted. Confidence in traditional media has opened up space in the media market to a growing number of alternative media. Several of these media highlight news and perspectives that many experience are not found in the traditional media landscape. In this new media landscape there is growing polarisation, where some groups consume only alternative media and reject traditional media while others condemn alternative media and only consume information from traditional actors. This polarization is worrying for those of us who believe that the path to a nuanced reality picture goes through information gathering from a wide range of perspectives and sources. To strive for width gives increased chances of landing in a balanced view of different events. This also gives increased opportunities to understand people with different perceptions and reality analysis than their own. This is part of the basis for a well-functioning debate climate. In a larger perspective, it can become a threat to democracy if different groups in society have different images of social development and what is true or false in news reporting. Madam President, I would like It is also important that media coverage is available throughout Sweden. Unfortunately, many local newsrooms experience profitability problems linked to declining number of subscribers and reduced advertising revenues, which in some cases leads to the closure of local editorial services. At the same time, the emergence of alternative media in all contexts cannot fulfil the function and coverage of the incumbents. It is very problematic if rural areas in the future are without media coverage that highlights its perspective or examines its powers. All residents of Sweden need to search for information about things that affect them and their lives, and all those in power in Sweden need to feel that their practices can be subject to scrutiny. The Swedish Democrats therefore propose that operating aid, which is currently almost exclusively provided to traditional media and media houses, be abolished by a gradual reduction over five years, but leave distribution aid and development and innovation aid unchanged. Sweden is large, and the local media have different conditions in different locations. We therefore consider it reasonable that there should be distribution aid for the smaller newspapers that are unable to finance distribution because of, for example, long distances in the county. It is an aid aimed at supporting the ability of smaller newspapers to develop new technological solutions to compete in the media landscape. Increasing pre-aid does not help the death of newspapers and does not really improve the conditions for independent media pluralism. The industry must meet the needs of consumers and find new long-term solutions and can therefore no longer rely on an artificial and untimely support system. Madam President, I would like The Internet has revolutionized our communication, and various forms of opinion-makers can now easily reach billions of people in the world. Today, internet infrastructure is largely composed of a few global companies. As a result, both private and small commercial operators have to go through these actors in general if they want to reach their audience. Following pressure from the EU, the powers and various commercial actors on the infrastructure platforms on who can upload materials and which material to remove from the platforms, these platforms have switched off or removed parts of independent creators' materials. The Internet has enabled a creative revolution with incredible opportunities to share material all over the world. At the same time, this freedom of expression is now threatened by the market dominance and behaviour of the major online platforms. The government should investigate the oligopoly situation in the media market further and, if necessary, come back with proposals for securing freedom of expression.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-233	Madam President, I would like This is an important debate, which deals with freedom of expression and freedom of expression and mass media issues. Today we are discussing, among other things, enhanced protection for journalists, hybrid warfare, public service issues, review board issues, regulation of tech giants and support for the media. There is a very wide range of issues in this area, and I would like briefly to highlight just two of them. Firstly, Madam President, it is about strengthening the protection of journalists. A number of studies have shown that many journalists and media editorials are exposed to threats and harassment. That is totally unacceptable. In 2017, the Social Democratically led government adopted an action plan that involved more systematic work to prevent and manage threats and hatreds against journalists and editorial staff. The Government has commissioned various authorities to identify the extent of this hatred and threat and to identify, develop and improve their efforts to combat hate crime and other crimes that threaten democracy. It is very urgent and very welcome. Secondly, Madam President, on the question of hybrid warfare in the form of propaganda, I would like to point out that, the other year, the government set up an investigation to analyse and make proposals to re-establish the authority previously called the Board of Psychological Defense. According to the government, a newly formed authority responsible for this is an important step in building a modern total defence adapted to the threats of today. The report must be presented by 31 May of this year. Madam President, I would like Finally, of course, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-240	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. In these special times, it is difficult not to get into the corona virus that currently affects more or less everything. It is currently creating a great demand and an almost insatiable need and demand for more information and more news. It is about us being able to inform ourselves, process and understand what is now happening around the world. Now the question of freedom of expression is also at its head. Free and independent journalism always plays a crucial role in a democracy. But the need is even more evident now that there are no easy answers to how best to combat this pandemic. The free and independent press is a cornerstone of our democracy. When society is affected by fake news and extremism, the role of journalism as a reviewer has an extremely important function. At the moment, the pace of the news flow is high, both in Sweden and internationally, with daily press conferences and political decisions that greatly affect our lives. In addition, there is a great need to depict the pandemic itself and how it affects us, our reality and the world. The fact that the media not only act as megaphones for government agencies and decision-makers, but also ask the questions that we all carry, also gives us more opportunity to understand, think critically and value the different messages we encounter. In a living democracy, independent journalism is extremely important. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen a trend towards media companies being forced to close local surveillance around the country, especially outside the big cities. Many local offices have minimal conditions for their work, and several have had to close down completely. This development is not new, and it is not solely due to Corona. Advertising revenues have been falling for a long time and with lower advertising revenues, of course, the possibilities of hiring journalists are reduced. To say the least, it becomes a paradox that the media industry is currently working under pressure, while the important source of income that advertising represents in the wake of the crisis has decreased even more than before. The Left Party therefore takes a positive view of the enhanced media support presented by the government. But we do not rule out that more will be needed in the future. We will therefore follow this matter closely. Madam President, I would like Our freedom of expression is one of the most important rights. Nevertheless, half of the world's population does not have the right to say, read, write or print what they want. Silenced media not only undermines everyone's right to free and independent news media, but also democracy. If it were not for our freedom of expression and the press, how could we learn about oppression and abuse and then be able to fight them and create a better world? In several countries, journalists and writers are killed every year. In others, they are imprisoned for reporting and reviewing power. We all know about the Swedish cases Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak. We must never forget them, and we must never stop fighting for their release. Many journalists are exposed to threats and hatred. There are consequences. A lot of people have been thinking about leaving journalism. And when threats and hatred lead to self-censorship, it is a threat that affects not only the individual; it also affects the whole democratic dialogue and, by extension, threatens our democracy. Madam President, I would like This shows that free speech needs to be constantly promoted and defended. We can and must never take our freedoms for granted.
i-HBv73NvXJSoy43xcVDGP3f	Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee is today debating a number of motions from the general period of exercise on important issues of freedom of expression and of the press and the media. For us in the Green Party, free media as well as a free culture and independent courts are the foundations of a democratic society. The Green Party will do everything in our power to ensure that it remains a matter of course in Sweden. Firstly, no single medium can claim to be able alone to convey a comprehensive picture of reality with all its nuances and shifts. Research shows that a strong public service combined with a viable commercial media market goes hand in hand with strong democracies. This requires funding. In addition to crisis support, the government has announced permanent increases in support of viable media throughout the country. A wide range of news, culture, educational programmes, children's programmes, entertainment, national minority programmes and much more are therefore central to public service being a matter for everyone throughout the country. Secondly, it is in the pluralist society that we live in, of course, that toll-financed television and radio should speak to everyone. Not everyone likes everything in public service, but everyone should be able to find something to recognize and like. In authoritarian regimes, minorities can be denied the possibility of being seen in the media even though they represent a large proportion of the population. We in the Green Party do not want such a Sweden. A broad public service is important for creating community and cohesion in our country and counteracting the feeling of exclusion. Thirdly, the media should be objective, and we already have today a well-functioning system of the Board of Review to deal independently with errors committed. Freedom of expression in Sweden must continue to be strong, both for journalists and for all of us. We must all stand up for that now. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for the motion in the Constitutional Committee's report to be approved and for the motion to be rejected.
i-XMSDDCmNPBqfqVyuLp1Ts	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth, Minister Anders Ygeman, Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde and Minister for Education Anna Ekström. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-257	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde. We are seeing in the wake of the pandemic that is now raging around the world how companies are also being knocked out. In some cases they have been knocked out. This leads to growing concerns about hostile takeovers, not least here in Europe. This means that strategic products, knowledge and companies can be lost. That is why we in Sweden need legislation that makes it difficult or even prevents hostile takeovers of this kind. An investigation is currently being carried out by Sten Heckscher, but it should not be completed until November 2021. The Moderates have therefore today presented initiatives to both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence. We are calling on the government to try to find a solution with temporary legislation until the final Sten Heckscher report has been presented. I would therefore like to hear how the Minister for Foreign Affairs is dealing with this. One authority that could be used is the Strategic Product Inspection, ISP.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-260	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Wallmark, for the question. An open investment climate is very important for Sweden, but at the same time the government is very well aware of the risks and security problems that may arise from foreign acquisitions of, for example, sensitive infrastructure and technologies. The Corona crisis is now bringing further challenges. We welcome the fact that the European Commission is initiating new guidelines on foreign direct investment and the protection of European assets in the current crisis. This applies in particular to critical assets in the areas of health, medical research and biotechnology. About half of the EU Member States today have a review mechanism, but we do not. The study referred to by Mr Wallmark presented a response in March in the form of an interim report. This means that the EU regulation can be fully applied this autumn. The full assignment must then be reported by November.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-263	Madam President, I would like We know that these are extraordinary times. It is shown today, for example, when we were at. 16 will make a decision to change the disease protection law – one must act on the basis of the present situation. There is widespread concern about the risk of hostile takeovers as companies are swinging. I therefore believe that the initiative presented by the Moderates in both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence could be a way forward in anticipation of a more operational piece of fixed legislation.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-264	Madam President, I would like This is a very complex area, and it is about carefully balancing the interest in protecting critical infrastructure and activities from harmful purchases. At the same time, there is an interest in maintaining Sweden's attractiveness for foreign investment. On the other hand, in line with the Commission's call, the government is now considering other possible options to mitigate the impact of the crisis and to counter unwanted strategic foreign investment.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-266	Madam President, I would like In comparison with our Nordic neighbours, Sweden stands out in terms of the number of infected and deceased due to covid-19. The continuing spread of the virus in retirement homes is devastating for the elderly, who now account for one third of the deaths. The lack of adequate protective equipment has so far led to a stoppage in housing, which meant that the infected could not be cared for. It's a terrible situation. I myself, who have worked in the care of the elderly, was very badly affected. The situation is in danger of becoming like Spain, where staff eventually fled their jobs and the elderly were abandoned.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-269	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Julia Kronlid. Yes, it is extremely serious that infectious diseases have also entered retirement homes in Sweden. I believe that this has happened in 19 out of 21 regions. This is what it looks like all over the world. Of course, there are clear guidelines from the Swedish Public Health Agency on what protective equipment to wear and how to act as an employer, which municipalities usually are. At the same time, it is important to remember that this should lead to a reflection on how elderly care is organised. With up to 300 home help providers in the Stockholm region, we all realize that we eventually need to draw a number of conclusions on how to ensure a high quality in Swedish care for the elderly in the long term. At the moment, great efforts are being made by both employers and all those working in the care of the elderly to protect the elderly. This applies, in particular, to the restraining order. It has been important to ensure that older people are not infected. This will, of course, happen, and then we must have adequate protective equipment. The stop-off is a clear signal about it.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-272	Madam President, I would like Guidelines on which protective equipment to wear when protective equipment is not even available to the staff of retirement homes are not sufficient. I therefore assume that the government will do everything in its power to have access to protective equipment, if this requires a change of domestic industry. But what simpler measures does the government take? Today it is even difficult for staff working in home care to even have access to good hand hygiene between visits. Staff visits both healthy and sick. What further measures can the government take?
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-274	Madam President, I would like I think that everyone is aware that, at the moment, tremendous efforts are being made to ensure, not least, the availability of protective equipment. We have an initiative that involves starting domestic production instead of trying to rely on international deliveries. Of course, a great responsibility rests on municipalities and regions to ensure that staff have access to everything from hand liquor, which is now produced in many places in Sweden, to other protective equipment. The stoppage is a clear signal that we need to ensure the quality of care for the elderly.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-277	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to ask Minister Eneroth a question. It's about the Swedish Maritime Administration. Last week they had the opportunity to carry out helicopter transport and help health care in very important situations. That's very good. But at an interpellation last autumn, the Minister replied that this was not possible at the time. He would review what could be done to strengthen cooperation, but it should not affect the division of responsibilities. My questions are: what has the review given? How has it progressed?
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-279	Madam President, I would like It's true, Solveig Zander. The Swedish Maritime Administration has recently amended and clarified the guidelines regarding the use of the rescue helicopters we have in order for them to be able to assist even sick transport in the situation we are currently experiencing in society. That's good. We will use the common resources of society in the best and most efficient way. At the same time, it is important that the Swedish Maritime Administration's rescue capacity is not used for regular medical transport. There is another division of responsibilities. The regions are responsible for ensuring that the sick can be transported by ambulance flights or other types of operations. The rescue capacity of the Maritime Administration shall be available for emergency situations. In the situation that we are now experiencing in Sweden, we ensure that the helicopters can still be used, because we need an increased capacity.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-281	Madam President, I would like Does that mean, then, that we have not been able to see what this review has given, although it was so important to produce? Apparently, something has changed without the government letting us know about it. Is that right?
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-282	Madam President, I would like No, that's not true. What is correct is that we have increased the possibility of using the Swedish Maritime Administration's rescue capacity in the situation we are now experiencing in Sweden. There's a pandemic. This is a serious situation. Intensive care patients must be transported in different parts of the country. Crisis situations arise. In that case, the common resources of society must be used in the most efficient way. Therefore, we ensure that even the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopters can now be used in this way.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-284	Madam President, I would like I have a general political question for Minister Eneroth. Throughout Europe, communities are fighting to reduce the spread of infection and protect groups at risk. At the same time, on the Greek islands, 40,000 people are in cramped camps. While we can keep our distance and wash our hands and be at home if we have symptoms, these people are trapped in a humanitarian disaster. In the Moria camp, which is built for 3,000, 20,000 now live in tight tents without adequate sanitation and health care. On each water tap there are 1,300 people. Risk groups will now be removed from the islands. Commissioner Johansson has called on the Member States to accept the unaccompanied.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-287	Madam President, I would like It is true that it is a terrible situation in the refugee camps that exist within Europe, but also outside Europe – it is important to bear that in mind too. Great efforts are being made at international level, partly through the UNHCR and the common resources we have there, partly through the European Union with the support we give, not least to Greece. At this point, it is incredibly important to ensure that we have this solidarity within the European Union. It must not be the case that all the focus is on our own national responsibilities; there are also common European responsibilities. As Commissioner Ylva Johansson is now responsible for some of the coordination that needs to be done. Sweden will be able to participate by providing resources but also by providing support and assistance to ensure that we make a joint European effort.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-289	Madam President, I would like The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and Refugees have written very wisely: our response to this epidemic must include and focus on those that society neglects or refers to low status. Otherwise, this will fail. It is therefore a responsibility both for the people in the camps and to prevent the spread of the pandemic. That is precisely why the government needs to take the initiative to assist in the evacuation of the camps and to actually broaden the horizons and receive some unaccompanied minors.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-291	Madam President, I would like I very much appreciate the emphasis on this issue. It will be very happy so that we now get the focus on what we do nationally. But there is a terrible situation both within Europe, with the camps that exist, and out in the world. Joint international efforts must be made here. Of course, within the European Union, we shall do what we can to support, not least, Commissioner Johansson's request for help, support and action. I know and assume that there is a close and close dialogue between the responsible minister and Ylva Johansson in this case.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-292	Madam President, I would like The situation that Sweden and the world now find itself in as a result of the coronapandemy is not a common financial crisis. The government has acted but underestimated the depth and speed of this crisis. We have prepared a ready-made proposal that provides direct aid to all companies in crisis situations. We Christian Democrats believe that we need to do as our neighbouring countries and have a much larger direct payment for fixed costs based on loss of turnover for all sectors. This is something that even the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has put forward and that would beat more accurate than any proposal the government has presented so far. Yesterday we were able to hear both the Center Party and the Liberals talking about work going on within the Government Office. What does that work look like, and when can we expect a result of it?
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-295	Madam President, I would like This is a serious situation. Major efforts are being made to prevent the spread of infection and counteract the effects this has on jobs and entrepreneurship. Yesterday, the Government and Parliament were able to debate the historic budget of EUR 100 billion in contributions and an increase of the expenditure ceiling of EUR 350 billion. We have never, in modern times, made as much effort as we are currently doing to save jobs and businesses. We from the government have been open to finding collaborative models and listening constructively to all proposals from industries and from the opposition. I believe that so far we have succeeded very well in finding a balance where everyone feels that their wishes can be met. We continue to examine several different proposals and do not close doors, but we are careful to ensure at an early stage that we use the resources wisely, so that we have resources left for the re-launch of the economy and incentives.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-297	Madam President, I would like I would have liked the Government to be able to reply here today that there is a plan, preferably one that would be presented immediately after this sitting. Action is needed now. Next week, it might be too late. Everything now indicates that bankruptcies and mass unemployment are coming and that this is going to hit society very hard. Nevertheless, we must have an ambition to be the best entrepreneurship country in the world. My question remains. What's the government plan? We want to contribute, because we need a plan now.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-299	Madam President, I would like In a short time we have delivered proposals dealing with liquidity-enhancing measures and direct support through Almi, SIK or the business case that we have put in place. We have made sure that we have short-term lay-offs, an effective effort that saves a great many jobs and businesses in this situation, and that we do not have to make major lay-offs but can keep the staff during the crisis. The list of actions we have made on the part of the government, even in close cooperation with the opposition, is long. I can guarantee that we will continue to prepare several proposals as quickly as we can.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-301	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Tomas Eneroth. Swedish shipping had a very positive development until the coronavirus effects. The Swedish Maritime Administration has a key role to play but unfortunately has a very strained economy. As a result, the Swedish Maritime Administration's new tariffs from 2018, which received increased fairway fees, allowed the agency to show black figures, but it is still far from making its future investments. The Swedish Maritime Administration has major investments ahead of it, as the icebreakers need to be replaced as soon as possible. At the same time, the Corona virus has hit shipping hard with reduced revenues for the agency as a result. How does the Government believe that the Swedish Maritime Administration should be able to meet its commitments in the future without the fairway charges increasing and reducing the competitiveness of shipping?
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-303	Madam President, I would like This is absolutely true, Helena Gellerman. The situation we now have in Sweden creates incredible challenges for the entire transport sector. For the flight, it's obvious. There are basically no flights in the air now. Airlines go bankrupt or are under reconstruction. Airports are in great trouble. Shipping is still in a good position when it comes to freight transport, but passenger traffic is struggling for natural reasons with great concern. It is the case that we should reduce mobility. This means that revenue, not least to the Swedish Maritime Administration, is put under pressure, in the same way as in the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration. I can guarantee Helena Gellerman that we will look carefully at the financing of both the state and municipal and regional activities in the future. I believe that we will all have to be prepared to do some re-examinations to ensure that joint activities work well in the future. As we now raise the spending ceiling by 350 billion and draw up historically large budgets to meet the effects of the pandemic, we must also be prepared to reconsider some funding opportunities in the future.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-305	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer. However, I would like to come back to the icebreakers, because I think this is very important. They have a very important role in keeping Swedish ports ice-free so that companies can plan risk-free to ship their products through our ports all year round. Otherwise you have to look at alternative solutions. My question is therefore, more specifically: how does the Government think the new icebreakers should be financed?
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-306	Madam President, I would like We have already commissioned the Swedish Maritime Administration to conduct a design study for the development of new icebreakers. It's important. The icebreaker fleet we have is too old and needs modernisation. We are preparing for investments in new icebreakers, in cooperation with Finland and Estonia. The common icebreaker capacity we have is important for shipping throughout Sweden, so I appreciate that Helena Gellerman raised the issue here.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-308	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. Earlier today, on the way here, I talked to a teacher in high school who testified about how she and her colleagues but also the students are now struggling hard to make ends meet. On the recommendation of the Public Health Agency, education in upper secondary school is mainly conducted at a distance, while many of our primary schools are still open. The Swedish teaching staff are making a heroic effort for our children and young people, and everyone should receive as good a teaching as possible, despite the Corona crisis. My question is: what is the Minister doing to ensure that as many high school students as possible get the knowledge they need and the conditions for taking a high school degree?
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-310	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Vepsä, for a very important question! That's exactly right. The Swedish teachers, supervisors and principals, our children's nurses and our leisure staff, but also school meal staff, caretakers and student health staff make fantastic contributions to the Corona crisis and really help us in Sweden together to get out of it. But we're not there yet. Education in upper secondary school, adult and university of applied sciences is still conducted remotely, and the pupils there are also making great sacrifices for their grandparents and to help reduce the spread of infection. I hope that upper secondary school will be able to open as soon as possible, but there are no promises that it will be possible to do so before we can do it in view of the spread of the disease. We make great efforts, including through a new web initiative called School at home. This means that distance learning can actually be conducted with much higher quality than one would have dared to hope for in this strained situation.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-313	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. One consequence is that many schools have now changed to digital education and distance learning in a very short time. The work normally carried out by the government does not take a break; it is about equivalence and equality in the Swedish school. What is the Minister's view on the continuing work of achieving equality in our schools during the crisis and beyond?
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-314	Madam President, I would like I meet testimony that there are students who benefit from distance learning and who pass it better than ordinary teaching. In some schools, the presence increases since the transition to distance learning. But everyone yearns back to the regular school, where teachers and students meet each other. Not least the students long to get back to this. The crisis strikes unfairly. We have therefore opened upper secondary school to those students who need it most: those who have to do tests and trials, those who have practical steps to work with and those who need special support.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-316	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. In order to reduce the spread of the coronavirus, many have heeded the Swedish Public Health Agency's recommendations to work from home and consider whether journeys within Sweden are really necessary. It is good that many people want to take responsibility for preventing the virus from spreading. At the same time, many transport companies are severely affected, not least in the rail sector. In a letter to the Government on 19 March, SJ describes how sales have collapsed by 90 percent and that they now have a negative cash flow. The train companies, representing the various operators, write in their own letter that travel has basically ceased and ticket sales have fallen dramatically.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-319	Madam President, I would like That is quite right: all companies that work with passenger transport are having a very tough time now. It is really for the intended reason – we are going to reduce social mobility, and we are not going to travel. It is most dramatic when it comes to aviation. As far as the train is concerned, we know that between Stockholm and Gothenburg there are now 9 departures per day instead of 25. It is a 40% reduction in rail traffic. We have been careful to ensure that public transport works and provided resources to the regions so that public transport can be used, because the labour market must function. Of course, in the case of long-distance trains, the challenge is a little more difficult. Companies can benefit from the general support measures that exist, but we look at and prepare other actions to strengthen the train companies and the industry that also faces major challenges in the future. The most important thing in the future is to secure socially important transport. That must be the starting point for the government's priorities in this situation.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-322	Madam President, I would like When the acute crisis caused by the Corona virus is over, we need a strong rail industry in order to switch the transport sector to more climate-smart travel. Of course, the rail industry also benefits from several of the general aid measures decided by the government, not least aid to the regions. Is it not reasonable, however, that both the rail industry and other public transport companies that are financially affected by reduced travel receive support, just as the aviation industry has received substantial support?
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-323	Madam President, I would like The aviation industry has been given credit guarantees and can take out loans that are favourable to the Swedish National Debt Office. Otherwise, it is a matter of the public service obligations in order, as we have just done, to secure socially important transport from Norrland and Gotland. With regard to public transport, substantial resources have come in the form of the 22 billion allocated to the regions. This does not exclude that more needs to be done. We are in complete agreement – we shall have climate-smart travel. We will continue to do the biggest railway investment in modern times, for Sweden will change; that is obvious.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-325	Madam President, I would like In half an hour the municipal council will meet in Gothenburg. It will consider a motion put forward by the Feminist initiative for the City of Gothenburg to accede to the UN Convention on Nuclear Weapons. In practice, it is about declaring Gothenburg a nuclear-free zone. The Swedish Government has, after many ifs and but has refrained from acceding to this Convention at national level, in favour of, very wisely, being the driving force behind the Non-Proliferation Treaty instead. This exercise is very likely to go through, thanks to the support of the Social Democrats in Gothenburg. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs support his social democratic comrades in Gothenburg? If so, will the Minister for Foreign Affairs encourage more municipalities to take the same initiative? If not, how will the Foreign Minister act against his colleagues?
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-328	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Rothenberg, for the question. The issue of nuclear disarmament is one of the most important even now, despite its being removed from the political agenda. Nuclear armaments are in progress in several places, including in our own neighbourhood. That is why I think it is positive when we take various initiatives to keep this issue alive. The type of initiative that various party associations, municipalities or others take is up to them to decide. I don't think I should interfere. However, Sweden has been very clear that we are now working hard to get a good non-proliferation conference. Unfortunately, in coronatides, it was postponed – it would have been in two weeks. And we continue the fight for a nuclear-free world.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-331	Madam President, I would like Sweden has previously had a fully developed emergency preparedness regarding medicines, medical equipment, protective equipment and care places. Unfortunately, this has been phased out gradually. On the contrary, we in the Swedish Democrats have been working since our entry into Parliament to increase preparedness, like our neighbour Finland, but we have been repeatedly voted down in this House. As a result of the fact that there is now a lack of protective equipment, the health professionals at the front of the pandemic we find ourselves in are in danger of sinking or even worse, for which we are afraid, unfortunately. That is why, Madam President, my question is: who does the government think is responsible for the fact that Sweden was not prepared?
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-333	Madam President, I would like I do not at all share the history writing either in terms of the commitment of the Swedish Democrats or in terms of how we in Sweden have worked to strengthen the capacity of the total defense since the government's accession in 2014 and starting with the work of the Swedish Defence Committee. In fact, that term of office began a serious effort on what is about the capacity of the total defence and the preparedness of society in crisis and in times of unrest, with successive increases not only in defence appropriations but also in resources for the entire total defence – this applies not least to MSB's efforts. There are, of course, lessons to be drawn – and I think we should do this – from a long-decentralised and liberalised responsibility for parts of, not least, pharmacies and pharmaceuticals. I suppose it will eventually be considered whether it was wise to implement the liberalisation of pharmacies in the way that was done. But it's not time for that now. Now is the time to pool society's resources to meet the challenges we face in the current pandemic.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-336	Madam President, I would like Yesterday, US President Donald Trump announced that he is withdrawing his funding to the World Health Organisation, WHO. Today, the United States is the largest donor with 15% of WHO funding. The decision has been severely criticised around the world. It's obvious that Donald Trump is trying to find scapegoats rather than focus on the goal of stopping the Corona virus. Some who have reacted quickly are the left-wing government in Finland, which has increased its allocation to WHO to previously higher levels. Now it is time for Sweden to put on the leadership shirt and act, I mean. The world's countries must show their support for the WHO. The focus must be on taking the fight against the Corona virus and strengthening WHO funding. It is important because unless we stand up for the WHO and the UN, the world's poor will pay the price. I wonder what the Secretary of State thinks of Donald Trumps's decision.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-339	Madam President, I would like The world is in the midst of a major crisis. The World Health Organisation has a crucial role to play in providing knowledge, leadership and advice. It is now particularly important for the WHO to have the best conditions for carrying out this work. To withdraw funding and other support in the midst of the current crisis is very unfortunate. At present, we should focus on how to reduce the spread of infection and save lives and how to support the WHO and not the other way around. Therefore, Sweden has already given additional support to the WHO of 40 million, and we will look at how we can further strengthen both our financial and our political support to the WHO.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-342	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Eneroth. We are seeing today how aviation, railways, hauliers and taxis – all those industries – are losing their own power. This applies to both the goods side and the person side. It's declining evidence. This affects the business community. We also see that all these industries are connected. Whether we are talking about a person or goods, several different modes of transport are often used. In a number of contexts, especially the transport industry, the industry has called for a comprehensive strategy. So far, there have been individual measures, for example for air transport, and a few moments ago, a single measure was requested for rail. But there is a desire from the business community for a concerted approach to be taken. Then my question is: will the government take a concerted approach to these important issues?
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-345	Madam President, I would like In fact, we took a concerted approach from the outset by inviting early on in the initial stages of the crisis the players from the aviation industry, from shipping, from rail and road passenger transport, as well as from freight transport, to quickly capture all the different signals and proposals put forward by the industries. Then we could early sort and prioritise the most important efforts. It is important to remember that the priority in this situation for Sweden is to ensure freight transport and ensure that we manage food security and the import and export of goods. And it works relatively well – it is perhaps at a 90-95% level today. Passenger transport is a bit more difficult for the reason that we should restrict mobility across the country, but public transport works relatively well, not least in relation to the resources we now provide to maintain a good quality in public transport. There will, of course, be more efforts for the transport industry.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-350	Madam President, I would like Now in coronatimes, both I and many others in the community have followed the call to work from home. Then it is the broadband that makes it possible to a large extent. PTS's survey shows that more than eight out of ten households have access to high-speed broadband. At the same time, the difference between city and country is great. Many small municipalities in the hinterland have fallen behind.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-353	Madam President, I would like First of all, we should say that Sweden has the fastest, cheapest and best broadband coverage in Europe. It might be worth having with you. But we want higher. We want all Swedish citizens to have access to fast broadband. Now we have reached 86%, as Isak From expressed. That is why we need to take further action. We'll bet 650 million kroner. We are setting up a completely new broadband support system, where we are targeting the regions where we can achieve the best impact and get the most connected. The latest figure from PTS also shows this: Although we see a certain slowdown in broadband roll-out, it is growing fastest in sparsely populated areas. I'm glad to hear that. The sparsely populated areas are thus catching up with the big cities, and we are going to move towards everyone having access to rapid broadband in Sweden.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-355	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister of Education. Last week Upsala Nya Tidning had this headline on the front page: In many countries, the Corona crisis has meant that people have been quarantined indoors. It is thanks to the right of public access that we in Sweden have good access to nature. Forest walks and nature activities have actually also been encouraged by the Public Health Agency. In the field of school, research has described the advantage of schooling and nursing preschools. The risk of spreading infections is small outdoors. Swedish Friluftsliv drives that knowledge of the right of public access must remain in the curriculum for comprehensive school. Is there now reason for the government to ensure that knowledge of the right of public access continues to be given to everyone in school?
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-359	Madam President, I would like Allemansrätten is an inalienable part of what is our Sweden. The right of public access has really served Sweden well. In these times when the Swedish Public Health Agency recommends our schools that more education in sports and health should take place outdoors, we should be happy that we have not only our right to public health but also our extended opportunities to actually stay out in nature. In the proposal for new curriculum writings that the Swedish National Agency for Education has worked with, the right of public access remains under the heading. That is the heading that talks about what content must be included, which is mandatory and indispensable. The government has not yet taken a position on the entire proposal that has come from the National Agency for Education. The right of public access remains, however, under the heading. The government will come back with how we view the proposed changes in curricula.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-363	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Education Anna Ekström. During the coronapandemine, upper secondary school education takes place remotely. I can only imagine that I have a daughter who thinks it works very well. However, in several upper secondary schools there are still activities that run on. I am thinking now of the schools that have NIU Riding and other horse activities. The students still have to go there every day and take care of themselves as their horse. Horse sports and other elite sports cost a lot of money, but the school should be free of charge. This dilemma has been raised by Moderates in the past, and the Riksdag has endorsed an announcement that the conditions for combining their elite sport with upper secondary school studies should be investigated. I understand that the Minister has a lot on his table, not least right now, but it has been a year anyway. My simple question is: Is there a solution to this question?
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-367	Madam President, I would like Our high school is wide. It should include training courses that ensure that we have students who come out and can take jobs, students who can continue to study and students who can practice a hobby or perform elite sports. In Swedish upper secondary school there are thus opportunities to combine elite sports with school work. In recent years attention has been paid, not least by Alexandra Anstrell, to how different regulations have come to be interpreted in such a way that many schools have found it difficult to conduct some rather expensive sports. The government is very grateful for the announcement that came from the Riksdag and is working on a proposal that deals with how these things can be handled. There is work going on in the Government Office even during this tough pandemic, and the government will come back on this issue.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-371	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. As you know, in Sweden there is compulsory schooling. In the coronapandemia that continues to spread, there is a group of students who get a little caught up when the government has chosen not to close schools. I am thinking primarily of children who have some kind of underlying disease or children who have parents who belong to a risk group. Many parents worry that children have to go to school, and the only opportunity they have to protect their children from these risks is to violate school requirements and leave their children at home. In some schools, as many as 50 percent of students are at home. We can assume a large proportion of these students are actually healthy but that the parents, out of concern for their children, choose to report them sick.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-375	Madam President, I would like We talk a lot about the fact that we are in upper secondary school with distance education, and that is true. But even in primary school, we have a higher absence than usual. In particular, we have it among students living in so-called vulnerable areas. The high level of absenteeism is partly positive. It is a sign that many people listen to the Public Health Authority's advice and stay at home when they feel the slightest symptom. But it can also be a result of anxiety and fear, and I too am reached by reports and questions from parents where there is a problem with risk groups. The government recently commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to return with an evaluation. Unfortunately, since it is not my own responsibility, I cannot explain exactly what the mission was like, but it is about defining risk groups. We will follow the matter very closely and urge all parents who are concerned to contact treating doctors. That's where you get the best advice.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-380	Madam President, I would like Our railways are in great need of maintenance. The biggest problem for more maintenance has been access to the facility, that is, to our tracks. Perhaps an unexpected effect of the Corona crisis is that a large part of the trains have now been cancelled, which means that there will be more space and time on the tracks. In addition, many of the maintenance workers have been laid off and want nothing more than to come out and work again. So we now have a gold position to do more railway maintenance. Rail grinding, rail changes, visibility clearance and switch of overhead contact lines are some examples of jobs that could be done in the near future. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure what initiatives he intends to take to make more rail maintenance possible in the near future. We have the time, we have the workers and the need exists.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-383	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm! I fully share the view that it is the right time to make maintenance efforts. There is now more time on track than before, and it is perhaps possible to bring forward some of the efforts that need to be made for maintenance, whether it be road or rail. We are carrying out the largest railway investment in modern times in Sweden with major investments in both new construction and railway maintenance. I think it is a reasonable starting point to look at the conditions for bringing forward and increasing volume. Of course we are working on such proposals, and so is the Finnish Transport Agency. Nevertheless, I would like to add a note that in some cases labour supply may be a concern. It can be foreign entrepreneurs or high sick leave in some professions. But my preliminary view is that there is spare capacity, and then we will use it to strengthen the railways. It is necessary for the future and more climate-smart travel.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-386	Madam President, I would like For public transport to work, drivers are required. Drivers of heavy commercial vehicles need a certificate of professional competence, a YKB, to be renewed every five years. This was introduced in 2008. However, drivers who had a bus driver's license before then had a long-standing right to drive until 2015 before they had to hold a certificate of competence. That is why we currently have a peak of bus drivers who have to renew their evidence, because it has been five years since 2015. Due to the Corona virus courses are cancelled, and there are drivers who are currently unable to participate in training. If you miss something in the renewal, you lose the right to drive a bus. My question is therefore: will the government act to grant exemptions so that the YKB in force today can be valid longer, for example the year after?
i-Ucv6MgKKoBa6pwkX2Yqybf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hampus Hagman! The issue of YKB, driving and rest rules and a lot of other things were examples that were highlighted to the government in the industry talks that we had at the beginning of the crisis we are now seeing as a result of the spread of the new coronavirus. That is why we immediately started a job. The rules on driving and rest times have already changed. Exemptions are granted for more flexible possibilities for transport. With regard to YKB, we also intend to make changes. However, it is legally binding, which means that we must come to Parliament with proposals. We will do so shortly and work as quickly as we can with this type of change.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-393	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to thank the entire government and the other parliamentary parties for the leadership shown at this difficult time. People's health must be put first. But I would also like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure a question. We need to counter the far-reaching effects of the imposed shutdowns on society with border barriers and travel restrictions. The transport sector is severely affected and passenger transport has almost collapsed. In the long run, this could have serious consequences for both freight transport, supply and access to life necessities such as food, medicine, fuel and so on.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-396	Madam President, I would like The perspective is important – it is about taking action here and now to ensure what is socially important transport but also about thinking long-term. How should we post-corona ensure that we have a well-functioning transport sector? This is a tough challenge, whether we are talking about aviation, rail transport, maritime transport or other modes of transport. This has been the basis for credit guarantees for aviation, EKN and other financing opportunities for shipping, a number of regulatory changes that we have made to facilitate the industry and now also the procurement of air traffic in Norrland and Gotland when all commercial flights are down. We are therefore making massive efforts to ensure here and now, but also in the long term, that we have good capacity, because in Sweden we need our transport. This applies both to public transport and, not least, to good transport throughout the world. Sweden is a small, export-dependent industrial country; we need well-functioning shipping and air transport, and not least rail transport.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-400	Madam President, I would like While the heroes of care are fighting here and now to face the Corona crisis, enormous efforts are being made to develop vaccines. Here in Sweden promising research is conducted at Karolinska Institutet, and together in the EU significant research grants are mobilised for vaccine research. All of this is good and welcome, but once there is a complete vaccine, a small country like Sweden may find it difficult to access. That is why the government must now be proactive. That is why I believe that the Swedish Government should push for a joint effort within the EU to ensure access to vaccines on the day when there is finally an approved vaccine. I understand that Minister Eneroth finds it difficult to give a good answer to my question on a standing-up basis. Then take it as an important recording! Is the government prepared to push for an EU joint initiative in order to ensure the Swedish population's access to a future vaccine against covid-19?
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-403	Madam President, I would like It's absolutely true, Johan Hultberg. I am not an expert on vaccines, but I have noted and noted that our Minister for Social Affairs, Lena Hallengren, has close and regular contacts with her European colleagues and that there is intensive work going on to coordinate efforts, both internationally and not least within the European Union. Great efforts are now being made to obtain and secure well-functioning vaccines; that is quite right. But once it is in place, we must also ensure that we have access to the population, not only nationally but also internationally. I can assure you that there is a strong Swedish commitment, because it is a Swedish tradition to ensure that we not only meet our own challenges but also help Europe and the world. We shall ensure that we are able to cope with the pandemic that is currently affecting us.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-407	Madam President, I would like In the tracks of the coronapandemine, more and more people are working from home, which is gratifying. This means that we use a variety of digital solutions, such as videoconferencing, to carry out our work. MSB, the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, now warns that many of the services available that are also used by government agencies may have high security risks.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-410	Madam President, I would like It is the responsibility of each operator to ensure that the services used meet the high safety standards. This applies to both IT solutions and other solutions. There are a number of different assignments to authorities with reporting requirements to ensure that these reviews have been carried out. As services develop, various security gaps and threats will also be detected. Of course, it is of the utmost importance that the respective authority and the respective expert authority follow this trend and act on it to ensure a high level of cyber security.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-412	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Infrastructure. The crisis in the aviation industry is obvious, and the consequences are great. Aviation is crucial for both jobs and growth, but also for healthcare, for example, to function. Sweden needs a domestic flight that continues to work today and is ready for Sweden to restart after the Corona crisis. The Government has introduced a temporary public service obligation on a number of routes to and from Norrland and Gotland. It is good that the government is taking initiatives to strengthen domestic aviation, but the measures have obvious shortcomings. The government has chosen to only support domestic flights north of Dalälven and on Gotland. The whole of southern Sweden is left unsupported.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-416	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely true that we are dependent on having well-functioning flights in the future, not least in terms of maintaining socially important transport. Flights are most suitable and best when it comes to long distances. Hence Norrland and Gotland as our first priority, since now that the market is not working, we must ensure that we have flights. It's about test results. It is about health care personnel who may need to be transported quickly from Kiruna to Stockholm or the other way around. Therefore, it was important to listen to the signals that came from northern Sweden and from Gotland about ensuring that there are socially important flights. This does not exclude that we may have to make similar efforts in other parts of the country, but there are still well-functioning alternatives for transporting both personnel and equipment. Therefore, we chose to secure the public service obligations for Norrland in the first stage, but also for Gotland. Now that the market is not working, the state and society are allowed to intervene and ensure important functions.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-419	Madam President, I would like Sweden's 290 municipalities play a crucial role in Swedish society and in our democracy. This report deals precisely with municipal and regional issues and concerns legislative changes that govern and affect the conditions in our municipalities and regions. When you read the report, I think it is particularly clear how important it is to have good cooperation between states, municipalities and regions. But the cooperation – the relationship – between the state and the municipality is anything but simple, and it is my view that it has also become more and more difficult at a rather rapid pace. One thing that matters in this is that Sweden is now the country in the EU where urbanisation is the fastest. Of course it contributes. Perhaps it is now particularly important for us to stick together as a country, in the difficult times of this crisis, but also given the great social problems that we have had – and also have with us today – in terms of criminality and much else that was evident before this crisis. Statskontoret's assessment is that the overall government governance of the municipalities has increased both in scope and in complexity and degree of detail. There is more control, more control is taking place and more detailed control is taking place over our municipalities. The larger municipalities are today generally quite satisfied with the state governance, while the smaller municipalities – or municipalities with a smaller population, I should say – feel that it works worse. I can imagine that this is partly due to the fact that government governance in many ways is designed according to the needs of large municipalities. But it is also a question of bureaucracy – when government governance becomes more complex and detailed, it generates an increased amount of bureaucracy that requires more human resources on the part of municipalities. The opportunity to work in this bureaucratic landscape is of course worse when you have fewer people in your administration and organisation. Then bureaucracy will not be helpful, but will only put a stop to the wheels and create unfair conditions. It is the view of the Moderates and I that we as a country should instead be better at affirming the differences we have. We should use them and bear the fact that we have to do things differently and differently. Instead of trying to put all municipalities and people in the same form, we should be better at finding new ways for the state to govern so that 290 municipalities do not need to be treated according to the same strict, rigid regulations. The Moderates believe that we will then be better placed to have a country that stays together. More specifically, in this report we have a proposal on free-municipal attempts. That is a way in which we think it is good to do this. That is not a new proposal. It's nothing unique – it's happened in Sweden before, in the 80's. According to Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, the evaluations of the trials have shown good results. The government's own trust delegation has proposed that this should happen again. So there is a prepared such an investigation that proposes it. This is something that has been going on in our neighbouring country of Denmark in the past, and a new round of this kind is taking place there right now. Through a free municipality attempt, a limited number of municipalities – let's say 10 – 15 – have the opportunity to identify for themselves state legislation or governance that they want exceptions from or that they want to operate in a different way. Then you test it and can evaluate and get the basis for whether it works well or bad. Then you can spread it to more municipalities. In this way, and in combination with reduced detailed state subsidies and much more, the Moderates believe that we could have government governance that works better for our entire country and that leads to us being able to stick together as a country despite the urbanisation we face. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-430	Madam President, I would like In order to save time, I only ask for reservation 1, although we naturally support all the reservations of the Swedish Democrats. Madam President, I would like For the Swedish Democrats, the municipal self-government is a central and important principle that has unfortunately been eroded more and more. This has been done through Sweden's membership of the European Union but also through binding legislation that neither the politicians of the municipalities nor the regions can influence. One example that has eroded local selfgovernment is the Treaty of Lisbon. Through this, Sweden's municipalities and regions are obliged to grant voting rights and the right to stand in elections for people who lack Swedish citizenship and who have never had anything. It is our view that the right to vote, as well as the right to stand in elections, should be reserved for the citizens of the country. The so-called instruction law is another example where the municipal self-government has been eroded. Through the forced reception, the state has tied the municipalities to long-term economic and social commitments that risk entailing large costs that are very difficult for the municipalities to influence themselves. In our opinion, each municipality should be free to decide how much reception of newly arrived and unaccompanied residents can handle. Madam President, I would like In our electoral system, both party and personal votes are important. To be elected is very honorable because it means that a person enjoys a great deal of confidence and has a great deal of support among the party's voters. Unfortunately, people choose to leave the very party they are elected to represent. In practice, leaving a party or changing a party means that it no longer represents the same party as the voter was referring to when the vote was cast on the election day. A vote on a person is also a vote on a party. In the event of a change of party, the election result may be disregarded if the division of seats between the parties is changed in the council. We find it unfortunate that the distribution in this way can change during the parliamentary term and thus risk not reflecting the outcome of the elections. Persons elected as representatives of a party should therefore be able to be deprived of their duties in the councils, boards, boards of directors, companies and foundations if they leave the party for which they are elected, provided that they are not elected by personal elections. Persons who are effectively appointed by their party group to be councils or represent the group on boards, boards and companies should also be able to be dismissed if the party group no longer has confidence in them. After all, the party group has the power to appoint these people immediately after the elections, even if it is the council that ceremonially determines this. The fact that this advice ends during the current term of office seems to us to be wrong.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-438	Madam President, I would like I am jumping in and taking part in the KU debate today. My main task is in the Committee on Justice, where I am the Legal Spokesperson of the Center Party, so I am simply taking the right to focus on the part of the report dealing with local crime prevention. The job of security concerns all of us. Every stone in the construction of society, every single decision made in our municipalities, civil society involvement, the efforts of the business community, the individual's legal consciousness, humanity and civil courage – all of this matters. Sometimes it seems that security is something that can be outsourced to the police. Sure, they play a hugely important role, but security is built from below, and it is built by all of us. The police seem to have got their organization going after a couple of messy years. The prevention of crime was disappointed during this time, although the whole responsibility cannot be said to lie solely with the police. Even in this area of security-building, crime prevention, the police are extremely important. But the police are one of several parts that should fit together to prevent crime. Madam President, I would like No human is born a criminal. Through the research we know quite well what is the basis for someone to develop crime. It is sometimes said in this House and elsewhere that the link between immigration and crime, for example, has not been identified or even that for some reason it cannot be identified. That is simply not true. This and other links have been well researched, and we know that the connection between foreign birth and crime has a steady connection over time. A person with a foreign background is about two and a half times more likely to become a criminal than someone with a Swedish background. However, this is a rather small factor. One who grows up in a family that has at some point had to receive social security benefits is six times more likely to become a criminal. The biggest predictor, however, is another: school failures. The person who graduates the ninth grade without a full grade is about twelve times more likely to become a criminal than anyone who can pass the school. Why do I raise this in a debate on a report on local and regional issues from the Constitutional Committee? Because dealing with social and economic exclusion is mainly a municipal task. Every responsible municipality does well to do all it can to help people get out of life situations that become negative and destructive and avoid people getting into them. These are known facts, and all municipalities are doing their best when it comes to what we normally call social prevention. But there is a lot of low hanging safety fruit to harvest in the form of purely practical preventive work, what in criminology is called situational prevention. It does not seem as obvious to all municipalities as it does in the social area, and in our view there is a need to clarify local responsibility for crime prevention. How we plan our cities and municipalities has a huge impact on how safe a local community becomes. It is possible to build away many of the opportunities it has with evil intent to realize such intentions. Good street lighting and good maintenance, that the broken window is quickly fixed, is important, and flows of ordinary people to and from entertainment and shops are things that crowd out crime. My tip to municipal representatives who have problems with an area that is starting to feel increasingly insecure is, for example, to put a hundred yards next door, give permission for a food truck or plan something else that attracts ordinary people. If more is required, if insecurity has become so widespread that people hesitate to visit the site, security guards may need to be installed. Order guards should never do the police's job, but they may sometimes be needed where otherwise there would not have been anyone who can alert and report. There's a roundabout in Malmö called the Narcotics Roundabout. It's a place where people know it's possible to buy illegal drugs. Now I've been told they've put up cameras there. It's too early to tell if they've had any effect. But it would also be possible to put two guards on one of the park benches there. I don't think that roundabout would be called the drug roundabout for much longer. So-called BIDs, business improvement disputes, is a well-used method in other countries. It is a matter of the local business community taking joint responsibility for the areas that end up between the different companies. It is a successful method that can mean a huge difference for security and well-being and ultimately for the municipality's economy. For some municipalities this is an open door, but for others it is something that has not yet been explored to such an extent. I would therefore like to endorse our reservation No 5 on local crime prevention.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-452	Madam President, I would like Security and security are, in fact, the most fundamental to all forms of state, local and regional power. There would have been no great reason to have a state at all if it had not been for the task of ensuring that people are not subjected to crime, that they can be safe and live their lives free, that they can go home late at night when it is dark without feeling threatened and knowing that they are not being robbed or subjected to a violent crime. We are there to protect people from having their freedom restricted by others who commit crimes. It is true at all levels – at state, regional and municipal level – that where you can take responsibility and create security and security for the individual. I would like to endorse our reservation 6, which is precisely about clarifying the responsibility that municipalities have not only for providing security but also for preventing crime. It's a core task. Some municipalities around the country are doing a fantastic job, and almost all municipalities are doing a good job. But there are municipalities that do things that are far beyond what is the core task of the public but at the same time do not do enough crime prevention. It is clear that all politicians, regardless of the level at which they operate, have a great responsibility. We from the Liberals have proposed and are pushing at state level for a substantial expansion of the whole judiciary. The state has to take responsibility for that. But everything that is crime prevention cannot be done by the state. It is not that we politicians here in Parliament can decide how urban planning should look. It is not that we politicians here in Parliament should decide in detail how different municipal administrations should do their jobs. The individual municipality has a great responsibility on its shoulders when it comes to how the local business community causes businesses to flourish and new jobs to be created, simply creating the conditions for breaking socio-economic exclusion and removing the breeding grounds for crime. Since this is a shared responsibility, there is a point to make clear that each municipality has a responsibility for crime prevention, not just for security creation. With opportunities and confidence, which we all jointly give to each individual municipality through municipal self-government, there is also a responsibility. It's the only thing that makes sense. As things stand today, the law needs to be clarified. As has been said, there is a responsibility today to be security-building. We also need to become crime prevention. I can give you an example. All municipalities must be in good contact with those who work voluntarily on these issues or, for example, cooperate with a crime victim hotline. Even if there is not one in your own municipality, it can be found in a neighbouring municipality. Such a responsibility must be established. It is untenable that the skills and opportunities available at municipal level to work crime prevention and security creation are not fully used, as this is the core task. Madam President, I would like The police of course do an extremely important job when it comes to operating locally, building trust, creating opportunities for victims to step up and establish contacts and links with the local business community or local representatives to detect and curb crime on time and create security. However, not everything can lie with the state, for the state does not have the right competence, knowledge, insight or proximity, but, on the contrary, responsibility must be shared. I want to tell you a very short anecdote from Tensta, where I lived for many years. It is an area that has suffered crime and insecurity. One of the things that I experienced increased the security most locally with us in Tensta Square was when the outdoor cafés opened about the summers and started serving some beer. Then people, who normally were not in Tensta Square, sat down on an outdoor terrace with a cold beer in their hand and perhaps a pizza. Suddenly there were people in motion. Suddenly there was a social association. There were people who saw and could react if something happened. There was a local business community that could give jobs and make sure that people had financial means not to get involved in crime. At first it may sound strange that a beer can create security, but in fact it can. That's exactly the kind of thing municipalities can do. They can ensure that there is a lush local business and living environment where people do not have to be insecure but know that there is a fellow human being nearby. Having said that, I would like to emphasise once again the very heavy responsibility of municipalities to help curb crime. I request the approval of reservation 6.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-465	Madam President, I would like 41 years ago, I received my first municipal assignment. Since then, I have been active in local politics and regional politics for decades, before I eventually came here to Sweden's Riksdag. This made me particularly happy when my colleagues in the Constitutional Committee asked me to step in today and speak in this debate, which deals specifically with local and regional issues. I think they're important. They touch all the people of our country. It is about school, health care, elderly care, urban planning, association support, culture and libraries. Lots of issues are handled by local, municipal and regional representatives. Most citizens probably don't go around thinking about the municipal self-government every day, but it is in fact in many ways the basis for how our democracy works in everyday life. When everyday issues are decided jointly by us, political democracy is strengthened. It is also a way for us to deal with our local challenges and concerns. This is evident not least in these times, when we are severely affected by covid-19. What is now happening in health care, care, local everyday life and schools is largely based on the readiness, resources and ability of local and regional authorities to act to deal with their tasks in a very difficult situation. The report contains six reservations, Madam President. For my part, I would like to support the committee's proposal and therefore reject all the motions. Among the issues dealt with are the municipal self-government, new free municipality attempt, municipal division, conditions for elected representatives, the conduct of council meetings, municipal referendums and local crime prevention work. A party movement from the Moderates raises the issue of introducing a new free municipality attempt and giving a limited number of municipalities and regions the opportunity to test one, as highlighted, more effective governance. In this context, the State Committee proposed that such an experiment be carried out 36 years ago. The activities were to be carried out until the end of 1988 but were subsequently extended until the end of 1991. In December 1990, a summary of the experiences of the investigator and then Member of Parliament Sören Lekberg was carried out. In connection with the completion of the free municipality experiment in 1991, the government at the time concluded that the experiment had played an important role in renewing and developing the work of the municipalities. Furthermore, the question has been looked at in the Trust Delegation and in the local government inquiry that worked until just recently. In the report Stronger municipalities – with the capacity to cope with the welfare mission, the investigation concluded that perhaps one should look at a continued free municipality attempt. The results of the investigation are now being consulted. It was referred in March this year, and you will eventually return with answers based on the consultation process. Anticipating work in this regard would be unfortunate, so we want the motion to be rejected. It's not because we're against the idea, it's because a referral is going on. Another exercise refers to exceptions to the so-called localisation principle in order to enable broadband to be extended across municipal borders. The committee may refer here to the fact that the Government has submitted a mission to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency. On this basis, too, we do not see any reason for anticipating work in progress and therefore reject the motions. Local crime prevention is extremely central and important. Local authorities already have a very far-reaching mandate to work crime prevention under the existing Local Government Act. Despite this, the Government decided in November 2019 to instruct a special investigator to submit proposals on how municipalities should be given statutory responsibility for crime prevention. The directive also states that municipalities, together with the Police Authority, are at the heart of this work. The mission shall be presented by 15 June 2021, Madam President. The work is very important and, for our part, we do not think it should be anticipated. In these words, Madam President, I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-476	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating civil defence and emergency preparedness. We Moderates are behind all our reservations, but for time-winning, we are in favour of only one of them, namely reservation 16 under paragraph 14, which deals with pharmaceutical readiness. It feels appropriate these days. Not long ago I visited a trader out on Värmdö. I was told how the stock and logistics chain worked in Ica. Wow, what a fine calibre system! There, a single trader can manage day-and-season deliveries of specific goods well in advance. You can see which days it has been sold most by, for example, cheese hooks, how many you think you should sell and how many you want on the shelf to make it look nice. If I as a customer are to be able to buy my cheese hooks on a Friday, which is the big seller's day, it assumes that the right number is ordered, that the warehouse is as it was intended and that no one has come before to bunk cheese hooks. This also requires that logistics works, that is to say that there are trucks, drivers and fuel, and of course that my cheese hooks are produced at the rate they are in demand. Madam President, I would like Then why am I standing in this Chamber talking about cheese hooks? Well, cheese hooks you might be able to live without, but it's worse with food and potatoes. Sweden has traditionally been a country that was basically self-sufficient in agricultural products. Today, the situation is different. It is worrying that Swedish competitiveness has been eroded so much that only about every other portion is actually produced in Sweden. We need a stronger food supply through, among other things, a clearer and integrated coordination responsibility on security of supply issues. Water, water, just plain water, Madam President – this is the text from a well-known song by Lennart Hellsing, among others. That sounds simple. But sometimes it's a little too much and sometimes a little too little. Sometimes we have a shortage of chemicals to clean water, and sometimes we have a supply shortage. Water is a prerequisite for a good food supply in Sweden. The Finnish Food Authority is responsible for the national coordination of contingency planning for the supply of drinking water, and the municipalities are responsible for the daily supply of drinking water. Some municipalities are quite advanced in their various projects, such as the desalination plant on Öland. Others have a little further to go, and some have solved the problem by having agreements with another municipality. This can be a problem purely logistically, for providing emergency water to all residents of a municipality in terms of both transport and personnel is quite a challenge. Ultimately, problems with the supply of drinking water can lead to rather large crises and be placed on a regional as well as national responsibility. In order for municipalities to ensure access to drinking water in the event of increased preparedness and war, we Moderates believe that planning and logistics of drinking water supply must be strengthened in the municipalities. In addition to inventorying and ensuring the availability of emergency water supplies and power plants, there may also be a need to increase the stockpiling of chemicals and spare parts, as well as to ensure the availability of spare power to ensure the supply of emergency water, not least in our hospitals.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-487	Madam President, I would like So we have this drug thing, which I started with. Now, during the ongoing coronapandemine, we see a shortage of drugs and some protective equipment. We Moderates support the Swedish Defence Committee's proposal to make increased demands on regions to stock medicines and medical supplies, so that redundancy exists for the management of both large damage outcomes and disruptions in supply flows. The defence committee also proposes, among other things, that state stocks be increased and stresses that agreements need to be negotiated with both importers and retailers. Distribution must again be ensured. In conclusion, the Moderates, together with the Center Party, propose that the Government should work to ensure that Sweden has a good supply capacity for medicines in everyday life, crisis and war and that a responsible authority for this purpose must be appointed. That is what I call for. During the Corona crisis, many companies have flagged for wanting to make their resources available to society. That's great. However, our authorities have not been able to make sufficient use of this commitment. In order to improve cooperation, we Moderates believe that the Swedish Defence Committee's proposal to establish the Swedish Defence Industry Council must be implemented without delay. Then we can establish long-term collaboration between public and private actors at central, regional and local level. The Council would be an important interface between industry and the state in order to deal proactively with crisis preparedness and total defence issues. Madam President, I would like It was a mistake to dismantle civil defence in the way that happened after the Cold War. All responsible parties must be self-critical of the fact that it happened. But now it is important to give priority to the reconstruction of civil defence. There are lots of good proposals to improve Sweden's total defence. We see some suggestions here today, such as establishing a crisis fund, reviewing the role of the Swedish Armed Forces in civil crises and introducing specific legislation for both the management of civil crises and an updated and strengthened law on protective objects. Madam President, I would like I am also thinking of the Swedish model of independent and equal authorities. It has a lot of advantages. However, rapid and resolute intervention can be made more difficult when a crisis, such as this, arises that spans the responsibilities of several authorities. In this regard, we moderates think that there is reason to have a clearer hierarchy with a crisis-leading body, a national Security Council, which has the power to govern other authorities in a crisis situation. Madam President, I would like Civil defence is a business and not an organization of its own. It is the activities carried out by responsible actors in order to enable society to act in situations of increased preparedness. Here, all voluntary defence organisations have a significant role to play in the civilian part of total defence. But there are also volunteers who do not want to spend all their time on this, but instead be able to be an extra force when it comes to, for example, fires, major power cuts and floods. Sweden needs to be able to take advantage of this voluntary approach as well. There are good examples of this, such as the voluntary resource groups, civilian intervention in Tungelsta at home in Haninge and many others. In this autumn's bill on total defence, there should therefore be proposals on how voluntary resources based on crisis preparedness can be used in total defence. Right now, negotiations are ongoing between the parliamentary parties for total defence decisions to be taken here in the Riksdag this autumn. The problem is that the civil defense process is late. Some evidence came in last autumn, some have just arrived, while other important investigations concerning civil defence are late. They will not be ready before this defense decision is taken. This applies, for example, to the inquiry into responsibility, management and coordination, which will not be completed until March 2021. A united defence committee presented the interim report Resistance already in December 2017 with a number of concrete proposals to strengthen civil defence. Since then, the government has done far too little to implement the proposal of the Defence Committee. It's not enough just fine words. Decisions are needed, and funding is needed. The government needs to take responsibility for the whole, both military and civil defence. For us Moderates, it is therefore very important that it becomes a total defence decision, where both military and civil defence are strengthened in parallel with both decisions and resources.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-504	Madam President, I would like The Committee on Defence's report 7 on civil defence and emergency preparedness, which we are debating today, has been planned for a long time. It has been written about a little, but not very much, given the situation we have today. We support all our reservations, but I would like to endorse reservation 6. Madam President, I would like Many have for some time criticized various authorities – the Public Health Agency and so on. We do not support this criticism by Swedish democrats. That is not to say that the evaluation cannot then show that they need to be criticised. But here and now we do not criticise them. Instead, we are criticising essentially the paralysed government. You in the government are responsible for the death of people and the absence of protective equipment. It doesn't matter if you delegate to the authorities and write various letters – regulatory letters – about how it should be. You're not following up on the business. You completely ignore the fact that these authorities are not doing what is in regulations and for which they are responsible. You in the government are responsible for people dying in Sweden today because of your failure to act. That's it. Take this responsibility! You'll never do that. The previous government was not entirely free from responsibility. But the main responsibility for the disarmament of civil defence lies with this government. Madam President, I would like Since we entered the Riksdag in 2010, we have campaigned for a strong total defence. We started committee sessions before the 2014 elections on emergency stocks. We raised several motions in 2017 about the same thing. Everything has been voted down. How has it come to this? It's no wonder. Social Democrat Göran Persson began this grandiose. If you read his memoirs, as I have done, you can read the following: The process took twelve years, that is, my entire time as Minister of Finance and Prime Minister. Roughly speaking, it resulted in a halving of the defense. Old structures that have remained since Prime Tage Erlander's time during the Cold War have finally been decommissioned. This he writes in his memoirs. Then how can things go wrong? Ygeman doesn't want to be worse. He popped up in the arena at Folk och försvar 2017. What did he say? He said: Anyone looking back at a civil defense as it looked in a past era with food stocks, regional commanders and protective masks might wonder how it should be done. But a modern civil defence should not be based on structures from the past. Then how can things go wrong? Now it pops up from different directions that we should strengthen the defense. How can this type of statement be correct? And now the Prime Minister goes around the country and gets support for his actions. It is completely incomprehensible, at least for people like me. Madam President, I would like The most important task is to protect one's population – the Swedish population. That must be the most important thing, and there those responsible have fallen completely. We had field hospitals, and we had so many intensive care places in our field hospitals. I attended the time we practiced, and in my battalion we had hospitals, doctors, and dentists. It was all part of a battalion. Gone! You're saying we'd protect the old ones. Many people are popping up and saying this now that the government is responsible. Yeah, I'm visiting, too, but I'm sitting outside. The staff have the kindness to open the balcony door and drive them out as I sit on a chair four metres away. Then we can talk to each other when it's nice weather. Does the staff have protective equipment? No! Protective gloves? No, absolutely nothing. These are our Prime MinisterLövven actions to protect our old and elderly: nada! No oxygen, nothing. It is a fact to look at, and the government should not escape its responsibilities. They're totally uninterested. Is there anything we could have done before? I don't know, but I'm listening to other media-- for example, Web TV, where scientists claim that metabolic diseases have become huge problems and that the healthcare and medicines given to the elderly and the elderly can be directly counterproductive. Really? I don't know, but I listen to the scientists who say you can strengthen your immune system in different ways. Go inside and listen to them! There's a lot to do. You can strengthen this. Very well! What about the famous solidarity – that everyone should help each other with solidarity? We are talking about the defense once upon a time. What about now, within the EU? No, not much is happening; each one is closest to himself. It doesn't matter what supply contracts and contracts we have, because it's a dead end. France: We need the protective equipment ourselves. So that solidarity is probably a good thing to have in certain situations – I'm not saying that you should remove it – but you can't rely on it too much. We must once again build emergency stocks of medicines, protective clothing, protective equipment and so on. We burned up millions of protective masks. I myself was involved in transporting bandage equipment across the Baltic Sea to the Baltic countries. Batalion sizes were given away — hospitals. A lot of billions are now being distributed in various forms of support. What I think is a major shortcoming, Madam President, is that where is the support for small businesses – that is, directly targeted? The rest of you in here will also know that small businesses are very deeply concerned about developments; you will certainly talk as much to them as I do. They go bankrupt at any time, and many companies have already gone bankrupt. They say to me, and surely to you: We do not see a crown that we can use. Where is the support for small businesses – the really small ones? It is a question of subcontracting, and when the big companies then start up, there are no subcontractors. This also applies on the food side. I have my own well, so I have water. You have your own wells in the Center Party too, I think. But these are immediate measures, support for small businesses. It's been up. What does the Swedish people – you who are listening to this – get for the money? There was a curse in the original statement, but of course I leave it out. What do we get for the money? Well, at least we don't get any protective clothing. We definitely do not get anything for the care; we do not get any face protection for the care either for the money, or for other important areas. We know we didn't get it for the money. What do we get? Yes, we have various climate projects. The United Nations just got $8 billion, so that's enough money. And mass migration has its remuneration – no problem. The UN and the EU! The basic values plans have taken over the shelves now, Madam President. They used to have contingency plans, but now they are values plans and gender projects. Gender certified operations and gender centres are extremely important at the moment. Perhaps it is time to re-prioritise what we spend our money on, Madam President. To conclude, what are the Social Democrats and the government thinking? How do you intend to take responsibility for this situation? In our view, one needs to lift up a crisis management to the government, as it was once. There was a crisis management function in the Government Office. Re-create the National Board of Civil Preparedness or the equivalent! Jack the regional areas together with the military areas! The governors will have an important role here, which we can delve into. I've done that before, but I'm not gonna do it now. Re-create this now, so that we have a coordination function in the country! Contrary to what someone said in the Committee on Defence today, we need someone who points with the whole hand sometimes and who coordinates – not only cooperates, because then we do what we want each other to do. Whoever coordinates decides after hearing everything. Play different scenarios! I've said that several times over the years. Play different scenarios with game leaders – exercise leaders – from the Swedish Armed Forces and others. Get the politicians in charge to go through this! These scenarios will clearly show what you need to do, what emergency stocks you need to set up and other things. They'll show you how to run the business, whether it's burning somewhere. Who coordinates and allocates resources? Responsibilities are to be returned to the Government Departments. Start also evaluating now, continuously! In fact, when four or five months have passed, you yourself know that the positive elements may have been forgotten too. What were we doing that was so good then? 中 Assess this continuously, so that it is taken into account over time. I have therefore used my eight-minute speaking time, Madam President.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-527	Madam President, I would like Roger Richthoff from the Swedish Democrats mentions a number of things you don't have to prioritise because there are now other things that need to be prioritised. I think the two of us are quite in agreement on the need to prioritise total defence, but I understood that Roger Richthoff of the Swedish Democrats thought that one of the things that you do not need to invest in is equality. Therefore, I wonder if it is really the case that Roger Richthoff thinks that equality within the Armed Forces is not something we need to prioritise. I think there are quite a few girls and guys in the Armed Forces, women and men, men and women – call it what you want – who think it's important that they're there on the same terms. You are there because you know something, and you are there to defend Sweden from the person you are– not the sex you have. There is also an issue that I have been pursuing for quite some time, since I joined the Defence Committee and found out that there are not really proper clothes for women within the Swedish Armed Forces. Seriously, how hard is that supposed to be? I think that perhaps there are others like Roger Richthoff from the Swedish Democrats who do not think that gender equality is important. I think the most important thing is that we can defend Sweden, not what gender you have.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-530	Madam President, I would like I don't know how Mr Alexandra got that together. I don't understand the connection to what I said at all. Please clarify this! We never have any problems with equality, so I do not understand at all what this is about. People are looking for different positions, and the most suitable is the position. Should I interpret it as the Moderates want a quota system or something like that? Well, that can't be reasonable, can it? We don't have any problems with gender equality – everyone can apply! But if we are going to go a little deeper in this, we are against lowering the requirements, for example on the fire defence at Södertörn, about which it was a story. It lowers the requirements for getting more women into the business. We are firmly against that. But there are certainly many other positions in the different parts where you do not need the same muscle strength as the demands were on the male firemen two years ago. We have no problems with equality.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-532	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Richthoff, for the clarification. Then we agree that the person best suited to a position should be able to occupy it. One must also be able to work in an organisation and an organisational culture that allows it. We can clearly see in the roll call that was under metoo, # attentiontochbitihop, that it's not really like that today. Then I think it is a bit inappropriate for Roger Richthoff from the Swedish Democrats to highlight gender equality as one of the things that was nothing to go on with. I find that very unfortunate and almost an affront to those who have written about their experiences during the roll call # attentiontochbitihop. If we agree that women and men are welcome on exactly the same terms and that it is the culture of organisation that we have, I am pleased with that.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-536	Madam President, I would like It was good that we got the little exchange of words. Implicity is not something that I have ever been accused of. I want to be very clear about this. I'm glad you brought this up so there's no doubt. I'm done talking in this section. We have a deal.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-538	Madam President, I would like With today's security policy situation and the major serious events of recent years in our country and in other countries, with droughts and fires, we have major challenges to deal with and a situation that is complex and important to take seriously. This is a time to make the necessary re-priorities and efforts to build our overall defence. Our basic emergency preparedness is being tested right now, and it can be further tested. We are in the middle of a negotiation on the direction of the military but also of civil defence for the next five years. It is extremely important, urgent and obvious that we must take these challenges very seriously. We must give priority to the reconstruction of civil defence, but also to stronger emergency preparedness work – local, regional, national and in cooperation with other countries – in order to strengthen our overall preparedness. There are many reasons for this. This applies not least to the ongoing work to meet the coronapandemia, which is perhaps the greatest test we have had in civil terms during the post-war period. Despite large and very good work efforts across our country, and many resources, there are clear systemic shortcomings that need to be addressed. We have great vulnerabilities in activities that we will need in crisis as well as in higher preparedness and ultimately in war. Much remains to be done to build a strong and unified total defense. It requires a leadership that 100 percent drives and understands this and takes it very seriously. Action and results are needed in practice. This is also a time for humility in the face of these important tasks. It is a time for reflection, for examination and for re-examination of the positions taken historically. It is usually easier for us to say how it should have been and how it should have been than to express a will or direction for how we should face the trials and challenges that await us in the future, whether it is tomorrow or a few years ahead. It is important to take advantage of the power of collaboration and to work together also in the long-term work to strengthen our overall preparedness. We have very many areas where things have happened over the last 20 years during the dismantling of civil defence. Spare capacities and warehouse operations have been removed. There are so many examples of this. This shows where we stand today. What has changed during this time is that our society has become increasingly dependent on digital connectivity. Our dependence on electronic communications is enormous. It is important that this works daily in many arenas. Therefore, access to secure and robust infrastructure throughout the country, with broadband also in those areas that currently lack access to broadband, is important for building our overall preparedness and developing our total defence capabilities. Cooperation between the public and business sectors to develop this is also crucial. We must have the conditions with agreements in place and clarity about what applies for the future. We cannot do this alone; we must work together both in public and in private. Madam President, I would like In a report from 2017, FOI writes that incomplete and unclear regulation has long existed in the field of emergency preparedness and that this leads to difficulties in the liability conditions. This needs to be corrected so that it does not go into the new built-up civil defence. Crisis preparedness is about being able to prepare for the unexpected, to be able to face the unthinkable, to prevent, to educate, to practice and to work together. The pandemic that we are now experiencing is an event that many have been able to prepare for. There are examples of municipalities in Sweden that have plans for how to handle a pandemic. However, I believe that many have not been able to predict the effects that we are seeing around our country, in European cooperation and globally, with production that has stopped, closed borders, logistics challenges, transport that is not working and so on. Our emergency preparedness is decentralised and has its starting point in everyday events. It's slim. Usually there is a limited ability to scale up. We saw this at the fires in 2014 and 2018. We have learned a lot from the evaluations of the recent major events. Crisis preparedness has a way of thinking that often assumes that the market works, that goods come on time, that market mechanisms work and that production continues. Now we see a scenario and a development of events that has clearly eliminated important functions. It has enormous consequences for the availability of protective equipment, breathing protection, hand spirit and other things. Our starting point is that we should now deal with this pandemic in the emergency preparedness work, no matter how long it lasts, but also take a balanced total defence decision before the autumn budget work and the bill treatment for the next working year. We have an agreement on the military part, but we have still not landed in an economic agreement on the direction of civil defence. Our starting point is that the sharp proposals that we presented in December 2017 together in the Swedish Defence Committee's report Resistance will be implemented in the short and longer term. There will be many opportunities to create win-win situations, where we can change our society and build crisis preparedness and civil defence through conversion work. I support Amendment No 12, which deals with food security. Our food production must increase. It is about Sweden's ability to support the population. This is an area related to security policy and emergency work. The conditions for Swedish farmers and agricultural entrepreneurs must be improved and competitiveness strengthened. It is an example of an important area affected by total defence work. Another is access to medicines and pharmaceutical production. A third is the conversion work to achieve sustainability with more renewable energy production in Sweden. Reducing dependence on oil imports is a clear signal of security policy to the outside world, but also an extremely important effort to build our own robustness and ability to produce fuels both for the military and for the civilian. Reducing external dependence is an important response to crisis preparedness. Madam President, I would like Today we had representatives of the military, that is, the Swedish Armed Forces, as well as MSB and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration. One of the issues raised there was evaluation, how we can learn from what is already being done and how we can correct and adapt work continuously during crisis management. I think that the authorities presented important perspectives to the committee as well as how we should continue to work together on these issues. Madam President, I would like There are many challenges, and much is being done. We also see that through long-term and short-term perseverance we will get through this together. We will also need to take clear and necessary steps to strengthen our overall preparedness in the future.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-554	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Hello, everyone who listens at home! I hope you are doing well and taking good care of yourselves and each other in the crisis that we are now in. Today, the Committee on Defence is debating motions in the field of civil defence and emergency preparedness. This is an exercise debate that comes back every year, and rarely has it been so topical when it comes. The debate on civil defence and our perspective on crisis preparedness have, of course, become much more topical in the last month. We have all experienced how life has changed and how other things feel important in life than before. During this crisis, we have seen an increase in people-to-people solidarity. But we have also seen how vulnerable our society is after many years of privatisation and cuts, especially in health care, care for the elderly and home care – the core of our common welfare. In recent years, we have talked a lot about living in a more vulnerable society. However, the focus of the discussions has often been natural disasters and the effects of the climate changes we see. Now we have been reminded of another threat – the threat from diseases and pandemics – and, as after previous serious events, we need to make our society stronger, to go through this crisis and to face future threats even better than we can today. When I made my speech in this exercise debate last year, Madam President, I talked very much about the importance of increasing the knowledge of emergency preparedness among the population and that many of us may have had a little difficulty imagining what it would mean to live in a society where the systems may no longer function as we are used to. It's not like that anymore. Over the past month, we have all gained a very great understanding of how vulnerable society is and how important it is to be prepared for things that can happen that make it not as usual. When this crisis is over, it is important that we do not forget how we deal with vulnerability but continue to strengthen our own and our common society's resilience and preparedness. Madam President, I would like This crisis is being dealt with in many different directions in our society. Here in Parliament, it is primarily our colleagues in the Social Affairs Committee who are working on these issues. However, we in the Committee on Defence have the issue of civil defence and preparedness on our table. Civil defense is very broad and very large. This includes, in addition to the usual welfare, what is absolutely closest to us, also questions about electricity, food, water, fuel and how the cultural sector can help us to reflect and delight in heavy moments. It is also about the voluntary efforts of civil society as a whole and how we work together. Civil defence thus includes the ability of society as a whole to withstand crises, to be resilient and to recover as quickly as possible after a crisis. It is of course incredibly important that the civil defence in Sweden is strengthened in the future and that we build on the experiences of both this and the various crises of recent years. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that the crisis that we are currently experiencing has been exacerbated by the fact that we have seen and suffered from cuts and privatisations in the public sector for many years in society – in the welfare that is closest to us. The municipalities and regions have a fundamental, very important responsibility for planning activities such as health care, care for the elderly, childcare and preschool, and for these to be operational even in times of crisis. This requires financial resources, preparation, cooperation and knowledge-raising, something that is becoming more difficult in a society that has been divided into different privatisations, where we see resources disappearing and where we see very many different heads of the public sector. When I made my speech in this debate a year ago, I said that those activities which, even when things are quiet in society, are on their knees and are having difficulty in coping with the business will have a great deal of difficulty in coping with it if we end up in crisis. I think that's about what we're seeing today. For operations to function in the event of a crisis, personnel not already in normal times are required to be trained and understaffed. The Left Party believes that we must stop cuts in the municipal and regional sectors. We must have a fully funded healthcare system and a fully funded elderly care in the future, where staff have higher salaries and better working conditions. You should be able to stay in your profession until retirement, and you should be able to feel joy and pride every day when you go to work and home from work. We all share a shared responsibility for the strength and resilience of our society. We in the Left Party firmly mean that equal societies where we plan, fund and implement things together are strong societies. We believe that the privatisations and sales of recent decades have made our society weaker and the activities more difficult to coordinate effectively in this respect. We see this especially now that we have a crisis. We therefore need to take back socially important public activities, especially in welfare, and ensure that they are financed so that they can manage their activities. Madam President, I would like The Left Party has four motions in this report. We demand, among other things, access to important medicines during crises. We see that it can be difficult to get the medicines you need even when there is no crisis. We are calling for a national self-sufficiency rate of food to be at least 80%. We also have a motion for a review of fireworks legislation. The motion I would like to highlight in this debate concerns the Swedish Armed Forces' support for civil society in crisis. The Swedish Armed Forces' help during the crisis in the last month has been invaluable for coping with the situation we have today. Today in the Defence Committee we received a presentation of what the Swedish Armed Forces, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration and the Swedish Civil Protection Agency are doing right now. The few military medical facilities and field hospitals we have been put at the disposal of the regions. Protective masks and other materiel have been lent. Home Guards and voluntary defence organisations help with transport, among other things. It is important, I believe, that we can use all the resources available in society in the event of civil crises. The Left Party believes that legislation on how the Armed Forces can plan for support to civil society long before crises occur must be reviewed. Madam President, I would like I therefore request the approval of reservation 9. I would like to conclude by expressing my great thanks to all those who are working in the crisis right now, especially all the health professionals who are helping the sick and helping to alleviate the effects of the crisis. I would also like to express my support and great sympathy for all those who have been affected by the ongoing pandemic.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-575	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling in this debate on civil defence and emergency preparedness for our reservation 10 under item 11, which deals with the role of the Armed Forces in civil crises. As has been said by the previous speaker, we are currently in the midst of a difficult crisis. The Coronapandemia affects the lives of thousands of people in Sweden and around the world. Like the previous speaker, I would like to thank all those who are making great efforts, not least in health care, to alleviate and help. The pandemic shows the importance of being prepared when crises come. Sweden once had, Madam President, perhaps the most modern civil defence in the world. It may be worth recalling that in the early 90s we had 50 mobile field hospitals, 35 in the army and 15 in the Navy. Each field hospital had 6 operating rooms with 18 ventilators. In total they had the capacity of 1 000 operations per day and 10 000 care places. Everything was packed mobile and could quickly be installed in inflatable tents and form a hospital with its own electricity supply and heating. Of this, 94% was closed. Today we have two medical companies with 16 intensive places and 96 care places, which are now very useful both here in Stockholm and in Gothenburg. At the beginning of the 1990s, we also had supplies of medicines and consumables around the country to cope with up to 150 000 injured. What is important now is to see what we can and must do in order to be better prepared in the future. I'm sitting with the Christian Democrats in the Defense Committee. We worked for two and a half years and came up with a final report last spring. But as early as 2017, we presented a report called Resistance, which deals with civil defence. There are points on which all eight parliamentary parties actually agree. I will not list all the 84 proposals, that is not enough time, but I will highlight some. There are four main proposals that are important. The first is that the supply of medicines and medical equipment must be ensured. The regions must start planning for what is prescribed by the Act on Action in the event of extraordinary events. It includes stockpiling medicines and medical supplies. At present, this is not done to the necessary extent either in pharmacies, hospitals or wholesalers. Unfortunately, this has been demonstrated with great clarity during the crisis we are currently in the midst of. The second proposal is the change in political leadership of the total defence in the Government Office. At the turn of the government in 2014, responsibility for total defence was divided into two departments. Everything had previously been in the same department, but then MSB was moved to the Ministry of Justice. We in the Defence Committee want to move the responsibility back so that there will be a coherent management both in peacetime and at increased preparedness, and it will be at the Ministry of Defence. It is very important in the event of a crisis that there is a clear governance structure, and it must also be in politics and politically responsible. The third proposal concerns sectoral authorities in areas of social importance. The defence committee wants to give an authority a collective responsibility for every social activity – healthcare, energy supply, transport, food and so on. Here we can compare ourselves to Finland. There you can support the entire population for over six months. In Sweden, we manage food security for ten days or so, and we have a self-sufficiency rate of less than 50%. This is something that needs to be addressed. It is also far too easy to cut off the energy supply, something that has hit Ukraine in the near future, for example. On several occasions, Ukraine has suffered from blackouts affecting up to a quarter of a million people. This can also happen in Sweden. That was something that we in the Defense Committee pointed out. The fourth proposal is for a civilian commander to strengthen responsibilities and management relationships. We propose that Sweden's 21 counties be divided into 3 – 6 larger geographical civilian areas with one of the county governors as civilian commander with the task of managing the contingency planning. We believe this would strengthen peace-time emergency preparedness. This presented Björn von Sydow as a broad and important social reform, something we were all involved in. It is important that it now becomes a reality. It has soon been three years, and so far none of it has become a reality. There are ongoing investigations, but investigations are not enough. The crisis shows that this must now be translated into action. Now we need the government to act so that we can recreate a civil defence worthy of the name. This is because we know that this is not the last crisis that Sweden will experience. There will be more, and in the meantime we must ensure that we strengthen preparedness. Now there are clear proposals. There are 84 concrete proposals from the Defence Committee. These must be implemented. It is also important that there be money. We in the Christian Democrats put in our draft budget a great deal of money, 900 million next year, to ensure that there are also resources. Warm air is not enough for the proposals that I have just listed to become reality, but it also requires money and resources so that we can have a better civil defence that better responds when the next crisis strikes us.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-592	Madam President, I would like It is very good that has already been said in this debate. Like some previous speakers, I would like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to all the people who are working and working in health care and caring to deal with this crisis right now. I would also like to express my thanks to volunteers who provide food supplies, homework or other things needed in the crisis, to relatives who make an extra call to an elderly relative who is now in isolation, and, of course, to those entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who, with personal risk and years of toil, have financed all the welfare that exists and all the emergency efforts that are now being made. However, Madam President, I do not wish to dwell any longer on the general debate on emergency preparedness, because we have already had so much in this House today. Instead, I would like to draw my attention to reservation 25, which I also support. It's about a screening team. In the past, cyber attacks were directed at companies and authorities primarily by individuals. It's not like that anymore. Now these attacks are 90% carried out by Russia and China. It is usually about attacks against companies to steal – to take, simply – innovations, technology and knowledge that China and Russia in their dictatorship efforts may very well use against us here in Sweden and that they have definitely stolen from Swedish companies. These are not only large companies, but also small and medium-sized companies, which do not always have the resources to discover this for themselves. It is clear that the environment in which we are now talking about civil defence and emergency preparedness is a different environment than it was before. The Russian bear and the Chinese dragon claw at our Swedish companies. FRA and Must, of course, have a responsibility to protect our authorities and so on, but we need more effective laws to create strong protection against information theft. We now know that with the crisis that we are now going through – the Corona crisis – and the financial impact that it will have, it is at risk that Swedish companies and, by extension, their innovations will be sold out on a global market. We saw it after 2008 when Chinese companies bought up important infrastructure and important companies around Europe and around the West. We are potentially facing such a situation again. It is therefore important to bear in mind that this type of activity has also increased since 2008. There are examples of Swedish manufacturers of computer chip p that have been purchased by Chinese connected front companies. Today we have legislation to deal with this when it comes to technology and innovation that is directly linked to the military, but today we do not have clear legislation dealing with technology that is further down the chain. It may be artificial intelligence that has evolved for something completely different from warfare but that in the wrong hands can be used both against us and against our friends in the world. Madam President, I would like One could say that if we block the possibility for Chinese and Russian front companies, for example, to buy Swedish companies and their important innovations, it could be that by closing this door to international financing we are hitting Swedish business. However, it is exactly the opposite. On the one hand, this is about our wanting to prevent theft, and on the other hand, it is about some of our main partners and trading partners in the world – Germany, France and the United Kingdom to name a few – already having this kind of legislation. Unless we in Sweden also bring about this kind of legislation, there is a very great risk that some of our main trading partners will not be so interested in having in-depth business collaborations with Swedish companies because they are afraid of what might happen if the Chinese dragon and the Russian bear come here and ingest our innovations. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 25.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-601	Madam President, I would like We are debating today the report on Civil Defence and Crisis Preparedness. We do so at the same time as Sweden is experiencing one of its most difficult and protracted crises in modern times. Today, intensive care personnel are struggling to save lives. In regions, municipalities and public authorities, they work frantically to obtain sufficient protective equipment. Around our country, extraordinary efforts are being made to protect risk groups and mitigate the effects of the Corona virus. In many ways, the crisis has brought out the best in our society – solidarity and concern for each other, trust in our institutions and political responsibility across bloc borders. But – and it has to be said, Madam President – the crisis has also highlighted shortcomings in our preparedness. These are shortcomings that arise from decades of gradual dismantling of civil defence combined with the introduction of governance models, management structures and just in time – stockless production – where the pressures of a crisis or war may not be taken into account for society. There are obvious risks of rigging socially important activities based on ideas of business efficiency. It will easily be very vulnerable, Madam President. We are now in the midst of this crisis, and it is too early to draw any definitive conclusions. However, I would like to draw attention to what will always be the backbone and core of all the fight against crisis, namely the people, especially those at the front of the front line. Whether it's a crisis or everyday life, it's the same nurses, the same nurses and the same cleaners who go to work and make those crucial contributions. As a parliament, we can decide on the most magnificent plans, emergency stocks and whatever it may be, but we must never forget the people. I am thinking, for example, of Leif Henriksson. He's the assistant nurse at the lung ward in my hometown of Östersund. He was interviewed recently in Östersund-Posten and described his work situation, with concerns about getting infected and for colleagues to get infected as well as the physical effort of working with protective masks during long shifts. The Corona crisis reminds us of who is holding up society, while the crisis also shows how distorted status and conditions are distributed across the labour market. To stand up for welfare is to create the conditions for a better preparedness. With good staffing, good conditions and opportunities for skills development, we increase redundancy – margins – and allow time for transition and recovery. Investing in the staff of welfare is thus an investment in the future and the new crises that we will inevitably face. If we say that a military attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out, we can unfortunately be absolutely sure that new crises will come. It will happen; the problem is that we cannot know exactly where, when or how. That is why it is so important that the work started with the 2015 defence decision, with the reactivation of total defence planning, should now go into the next sharp phase. In recent years, as you know, intensive investigation and analysis work has been carried out to lay a solid foundation for the reconstruction of civil defence. There have been government investigations, trainings, support for municipalities, exercises and not least the Defence Committee's report Resistance. As late as 2 March this year, the authorities responsible for security provided their evidence for the continued direction of civil defence. Although one can understand and even agree with the frustration that is sometimes expressed that this takes time, one should probably bear in mind both where we come from and the extent of this work. Fortunately, the military defence was not completely dismantled during the so-called strategic timeout – the defence branches were retained, albeit severely reduced. On the other hand, in the field of civil defence, almost everything disappeared. The former Chairman of the Defence Committee, Björn von Sydow, has used the word That is really what this is all about – a social reform. Civil defence and emergency preparedness do not fall under an authority with a Director General, a regulatory letter and a set of employees. As the Corona crisis shows, the whole of society must function, plan and ultimately be able to switch – from central authorities, through municipalities, regions and businesses to each individual. Another example from the crisis that we are experiencing today, which highlights the complexity of it, is that it is not just a question of filling one or two needs, medicines and protective equipment, but when the world is closed, it can have spill-over effects also to other sectors that are far from the very core of the crisis. Only the other day, for example, warned MSB that disruptions in supply flows may eventually affect socially important activities. It once again underlines the importance of not thinking drainpipes in terms of our preparedness but of thinking the whole of society. That is why it is so important that we now do right from the start, that we develop decision-making documents and an organisation that is appropriate and well thought out. Madam President, I would like Preparedness is a bit like insurance: you don't think about it much until the day you really need it. For a long time, civilian preparedness was viewed as something we could do without. Today we know better. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-617	Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis affects all of us. The pandemic that is currently under way is putting our society to the test. Many efforts are being made to save life and health, reduce the spread of infection and mitigate the economic consequences. We see how people lose their loved ones, how the anxiety spreads about getting sick, losing their job or life's work, how society stops off as a result of all the recommendations and limitations imposed. Our gratitude to all those in the front line who are making enormous efforts at this point is great. At the same time, another crisis is taking place in the quiet, a climate crisis. What we see are two global crises, a pandemic and a climate crisis, which require cooperation both locally and internationally. As little as closed borders can stop the virus from entering the country, it does not help to turn a blind eye to the climate crisis. Just as society's resilience is being fully tested right now, future floods, forest fires and torrential rains will put enormous strain on our society. We have recently seen how floods have hit Blekinge, Halland and Kronoberg County and witnessed people trying to save their homes from the water. During the winter, the forest fires in Australia raged and caused enormous damage to humans and animals. Last summer the drought struck Sweden and halved our harvests. Everywhere in the world we are already seeing the effects of global warming. That is why we must prepare ourselves in good time and protect our particularly vulnerable areas in both the short and long term. Gothenburg is particularly vulnerable as the city is located at the lowest point on the Göta river. It is likely that the sea level will rise by one meter in this century. It may seem remote, but many of the children born today will live then. In order to protect Gothenburg from floods and rising seas, we need to build external protection ports. It is expensive to implement climate adaptation measures, but it is even more expensive not to do so. Several cities have been hit hard by floods. After a rainfall in Malmö in 2014, the flood damage cost several hundred million SEK. Large investments are needed to protect our cities. But it is much better to spend money on providing shelter before there is flooding than to stand with destroyed buildings, destroyed infrastructure and high reconstruction costs. We do not want to see any more of their homes destroyed, whether by forest fires or floods. It is our responsibility to ensure that future generations can live and work in our country despite a changing climate. Madam President, I would like This is where the civilian defenses come in. Food supply, water supply, pharmaceutical supply, electricity supply and functioning transport are fundamental elements for a functioning society. These questions give rise to a great deal of commitment and the report deals with some 120 requests. The Green Party has long advocated investment in increased preparedness and self-sufficiency. Our whole policy is based on avoiding major crises and finding new ways forward. We are currently seeing how vulnerable our society is. This time there is no protective equipment for the health care professionals. Maybe next time we'll be out of food and water. We must build a robust society that is able to function for a long time without disruption even in crisis. One step in this direction is the government's work on flood prevention, landslides and other natural disasters, as well as the formation of a delegation that works for splicing along the Göta River. The delegation for the Göta River and the possibility of government co-financing are expected to speed up the race and safety work along the river. It is gratifying that the Government took the initiative to establish a special grant for Göta River, SEK 90 million for 2020 and SEK 115 million from 2021 onwards, which was approved by the Riksdag. This creates better conditions for Gothenburg and other municipalities to prevent both floods and other natural disasters that a changed climate can bring. Municipalities can do so by means of measures that they believe are needed, for example by examining specific aspects of the problem. It is extremely important that efforts to strengthen civilian preparedness to deal with climate-related crises continue. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that we have everything to gain from learning from the ongoing Corona crisis and choosing the right way for the future. When the crisis is over, we will have a historic opportunity not only to rebuild our society but also to build a new, sustainable and robust society. It will benefit us and those who come after us. I support the committee's proposal.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-629	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for our reservation on this matter to be approved. Every year, Sweden pays around SEK 300 million to the research facility Cern, which conducts highly qualified and important research. The sum paid by Sweden corresponds to 2.66 per cent of Cern's total budget. However, purchases from Sweden represent only 0.7% of total purchases. The proportion of Swedish personnel is also significantly lower than what is matched by our fee. All this according to the government's own bill. The reason for this terrible balance is that Sweden as the only participating country has not signed an agreement with Cern, which entails an economic risk and increased costs for Cern to employ Swedish staff. With the current non-contractual relationship, Swedes working at Cern pay higher Swedish tax than other employees, and this will also apply after the agreement proposed by the government becomes effective. Cern has a principle that all employees should be treated equally, which means that they replace employees who pay higher taxes, like the Swedish employees. This means, of course, a higher cost for Cern and affects the willingness to employ Swedish staff. Instead of signing a standard agreement with Cern, like all participating countries except Sweden, the government wants to sign a special agreement where Swedish tax legislation will continue to apply. At the same time, Sweden will reimburse CERN for the additional expenditure caused by the Swedish tax legislation. Insanity! It will be a zero-sum game, and why then argue about the Swedish tax legislation, when the same tax money will still be paid out to Cern? Swedish tax legislation is important for the whole society to function. We have experienced this bitterly, not least in these coronatides. But here the government goes too far. It was not really Swedish tax legislation that Moses knocked down on a stone tablet at Mount Sinai. The Government Office itself writes in its proposal on the matter how huge benefits the collaboration with Cern gives Sweden. Similarly, it states the major drawbacks of not having an agreement like any other Member State. At this point in time, fighting over a special agreement is nothing more than a criminal offence. If we are going to do this with every foreign organisation we are in, we will destroy Sweden's reputation and be regarded as the cousins from the country, with some right to do so.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-636	Madam President, I would like Our country and the world are in an extraordinary position in relation to the Corona virus, and I stand here instead of the ordinary Social Democrats in the Committee on Education to present our position on this matter. The report proposes that the committee should endorse the Government's proposal to approve the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Nuclear Research Organisation, CERN, with a reservation whereby salaries and salary benefits paid by the organisation to Swedish citizens and persons residing in Sweden shall be exempt from Swedish income taxation only to the extent permitted by Swedish tax legislation. There is a reservation in the Moderates and Sweden Democrats report and a special opinion from the Moderates. The previous speaker has already explained his reservation. The aim of our position is to maintain broad tax bases and avoid an even more complex tax system with many special rules. We Social Democrats believe that good research is essential for development. Since the early 1950s, Sweden has participated in the European cooperation on nuclear research, Cern. The organization's laboratory and its underground particle accelerator and survey equipment are located in the areas of two states, in Switzerland and France. Membership is of great importance for Sweden in several areas. In particular, the scientific exchange and the possibility for Swedish companies to export equipment and services to the organisation and to develop products and services for other markets in collaboration with Cern. Furthermore, Cern is a high-tech workplace that provides unique opportunities for exchange of experience and learning for researchers, technicians and engineers alike. In 2004, the CERN Member States decided to draw up a Protocol on Privileges and Immunities. The Protocol confers on the CERN the necessary privileges and immunities to ensure the effective functioning of the organisation. The Protocol entered into force on 22 February 2007. The organisation has confirmed that nothing prevents Sweden joining the protocol with a reservation. Having said that, I am in favour of the committee's proposal.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-644	Madam President, I would like We shall now debate the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, TU8 Maritime Affairs. The report deals, above all, with 81 requests for motion and related reservations from the general period of exercise, but it is, of course, impossible not to touch on the problems caused by the coronapndemin and the outbreak of covid-19. The crisis strikes globally, regionally and locally. All sectors of society are affected, and the shipping industry is no exception. Global trade and hence traffic flows are greatly affected. Passenger shipowners are facing an almost collapsed operation. Extensive layoffs, notice and negotiations on redundancies have already been brought up to date. The effects on both imports and exports have not been expected. Our Swedish shipping companies and workers in the shipping industry are severely affected. Of course, from a social point of view, it is worrying that our important supply of goods is being disrupted. A functioning maritime industry is central not only to Sweden's trade and security of supply but also to the tourism industry. The government has so far taken a series of measures for both companies and employees to reduce the acute crisis that has arisen for many individuals and companies as a direct effect of the pandemic. These include measures to mitigate temporary liquidity problems, to increase the cost of short-term work to the state, to speed up eligibility and to increase the ceiling in the unemployment fund, and to ease the cost of sickness benefits. For shipping specifically, the Minister for Infrastructure has invited meetings with the industry to get a clear picture of how shipping operators are affected by the pandemic. Derogations have been introduced in some regulations, such as the extension of the validity of ship certificates so that the rules of certificates themselves do not become an obstacle to shipping in the midst of the crisis. In order for seamen to serve on board and for ships to be used in traffic, certain certificates are required. The certificates are limited in time and require, for example, some training, practice, visits to doctors and visits to authorities to be renewed. The current situation makes it difficult to meet these conditions for renewal. Therefore, the period of validity of all certificates has been extended by six months from the date on which they would otherwise have had to be renewed. There is every reason to monitor developments closely and to think about more efforts for shipping to ensure the safety of workers and the opportunities of the industry and, not least, to secure the flow of freight and our supply. Madam President, I would like About 90% of the country's export and import goods are transported by sea, making shipping the most important means of transport for foreign trade. For some goods, maritime transport is the only possible mode of transport. A national freight transport strategy for efficient, capable and sustainable freight transport has been in place in the past. There is also a maritime strategy to promote maritime industries with a perspective for people, jobs and the environment. Maritime transport has an important role to play when it comes to achieving the goal, as the Prime Minister himself defined in his government declaration, namely that Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. It is important here that the instruments we have at our disposal stimulate a green change worthy of the name, including in maritime transport. For some time now, infrastructure issues have been given a clearer priority, with its own department. In addition, the largest investments in infrastructure are now being made in modern times. We have got a tonnage tax system in place to make Swedish shipping more competitive. The number of Swedish flagged vessels has also increased in recent years. The aim is to have a level playing field with the rest of Europe, thus facilitating the choice of which country should be a flag nation. Of course, we want as many people as possible to choose Sweden. Here we have also seen a reversed trend. But the issue of flagging out is also central from a defence policy perspective. In order for our country to make a living in the event of war or crisis, Sweden needs its own ships in a Swedish merchant fleet. In addition, of course, we need to be able to protect our central ports. In order to encourage more long-distance transport to move from road to rail and maritime transport, a national coordinator has been appointed who is in full swing in looking at and taking action through an action plan to stimulate domestic shipping. The share of domestic transport by sea is only 4% in Sweden. In the rest of Europe, the share is around 10%. The consequences of these facts are that we have unnecessary congestion on both rail and road and a more inefficient way of transporting goods. Under the right conditions, twice as much goods could be transported on water in 2040. The Action Plan includes everything from dialogue with ports and training of government personnel to further investigation of barge traffic rules. The starting point is that the Government's freight transport strategy and work is done in collaboration with the authorities and the maritime and transport sectors. Here in Parliament, we have set ourselves the target of domestic transport reducing its emissions by ambitious 70% by 2030 and being completely free of carbon dioxide emissions by 2045. If this is to become a reality, it is absolutely essential that we use both shipping and rail to a much greater extent than today. It is also worth mentioning the introduction of the eco-bonus, which was created to promote the transfer of goods from road to shipping. It was an initiative that was attacked in the budget that was put together last autumn at the initiative of the Moderates and Christian Democrats with the support of the Swedish Democrats. Finally, support for research and innovation has also doubled, from SEK 55 million up to SEK 100 million. The support shall promote the competitiveness of the export industry and reduce environmental and climate impacts. Madam President, I would like In May 2018, the Government made a decision on the national traffic law-wide plan for the transport infrastructure for the planning period 2018 – 2029. Some of the most important initiatives for shipping are of course Luleå harbour, the locks in Trollhättan, the fairway depression next to Gothenburg harbour, the locks in Södertälje and the fairway in Mälaren. All projects are now rolling at full speed. In the future, shipping has additional challenges that we need to work on. It is about the continuing international competitive situation, where laws and regulations are adapted to economic, social and environmentally sustainable perspectives. In addition, we must face up to the lack of skills that the industry and trade unions are warning about in the industry. For that, we need a good working environment with fair conditions. For example, the Safety and Health Act states that it is in the Ship Safety Act that it specifies how to appoint safety representatives. However, unlike the Health and Safety Act, the Ship Safety Act does not require the involvement of local workers' organisations or trade unions. This is a matter of fundamental importance. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister for Infrastructure recently, at a Question Time in this House, flagged a review of the Ship Safety Act in particular, with a view to allowing trade unions to appoint their representatives as safety representatives, just as it is in the rest of the labour market. The parties involved in the shipping industry, i.e. Swedish Maritime Transport, Seko Seafarers and the Swedish Maritime Association, collaborate within Blue Growth. This is a crucial piece of the puzzle for the industry to function and develop in the future. Politics will do its part, and I have good hopes for more initiatives by the government during this term of office in a direction to further develop and strengthen Swedish shipping. Madam President, I would like Real community building requires sustained political leadership at local, national and international level. We Social Democrats accept this challenge about people's need to be able to transport themselves, our common need for both imports and exports and for Sweden to stick together and take the climate challenge seriously. I am therefore proud to belong to a party represented by a government that has made and will continue to make these clear efforts on shipping. Maritime transport is crucial for the Swedish economy and for the supply of Swedish goods. In the acute crisis that the Corona epidemic has put us in both health and economic terms, it is important that policies clearly step forward and ensure that we maintain a strong society that takes responsibility. It is about securing jobs and supporting the industries that need it. The shipping industry is certainly a particularly important activity. These include access to food, cereals, fuels and medicines. We will have to do more for shipping in the short, medium and longer term. In order for Sweden to cope with the future climate change while meeting increasing transport needs, shipping plays an important role. It is therefore important to have a clear maritime policy that gives Swedish shipping the right conditions to compete in the global market. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to endorse the reservations 7 and 10 in paragraphs 7 and 10, as well as the other proposals made by the committee in the report on maritime affairs.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-667	Madam President, I would like Swedish shipping is fundamental for our industry and our goods supply to function. In these times when Sweden and our surrounding world are hard hit by the Corona virus, our society, and not least our country's ability to provide for its inhabitants, faces severe trials. Today, more than 90 per cent of Sweden's trade goes through shipping, and shipping employs about 10 000 people on board and about 100 000 throughout the industry. The freight flow to our major ports is currently functioning relatively well. But passenger traffic to and from Sweden in particular is particularly severely affected. We from the Moderates assume that the government is working hard to find the best solution in order to be able to support the industry as quickly as possible through, for example, targeted transport subsidies or by changing legislation on, for example, maritime subsidies. The measures should, of course, include both freight and passenger ferries. Our grateful thoughts go to everyone in the shipping industry who is doing their utmost at present to secure Sweden's supply of goods and food and a continued functioning industry. A tribute to you for your fine work! Madam President, I would like Today's report includes a number of motions on shipping, ranging from how we generally strengthen the competitiveness of shipping to how shipping can play its part in the ongoing environmental work. The report also includes two announcements to the government on issues where the majority of the parties in parliament think the government should act. The first concerns a review of the Swedish Maritime Administration's form of activity and financing. Today, the Swedish Maritime Administration is one of only three remaining so-called businesses. This means that the work will finance its own operations by charging fees from its customers, in this case Swedish shipping. To cover its expenses, the Swedish Maritime Administration has to increase its fairway and pilotage fees, which in turn means increased costs and less competition for Swedish shipping. There is therefore a clear risk that fewer ships will operate on Swedish fairways. Today, the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances are very strained. It is very difficult to meet performance and solvency requirements, and at present the equity ratio is just over 2%. There is an imminent risk of negative capital already in 2020. A rescue has been the mild winter that has led to lower ice mining costs. In order to get out of this economic position, the work needs to get more money through savings, by reducing ambition or by further increasing the fairway and pilotage fees. This is in the order of 10%, despite the fact that in the last three years both fairway and pilotage fees have been increased quite sharply. Add to that that the Swedish Maritime Administration soon needs to acquire three new icebreakers – an icebreaker costs SEK 1.3 billion. Then everyone will realize that the Swedish Maritime Administration has a more or less impossible task. The work and its employees perform their duties in the best possible way. But it is unreasonable for us to ask them to conjure their knees when there is such an obvious lack of means in the organization. The fact that, at this stage, the government parties are opposed to a review of the form of activity and financing and have reserved themselves against this seems strange in view of what I have just said. In view of the current economy and investment needs and the fact that the only option is to increase charges, a review is needed. To reserve itself against what the government parties have done seems really strange. Madam President, I would like The next announcement concerns how, through a more accurate environmental differentiation of fairway charges, we can reward shipping companies operating more environmentally friendly ships. This is already being done through the Clean Shipping Index, but the current system has shown shortcomings both in terms of who is covered by the regulation and in terms of the impact of increased or reduced fairway charges on the ambition to transfer goods from road to shipping. Today, ships with electric power and hence no CO2 emissions are subject to increased charges instead of reduced charges. We need to review environmental differentiation in order to ensure that it really benefits those who take climate action, without at the expense of shipping as a mode of transport. This will benefit both the environment and Swedish shipping. Madam President, I would like The Moderates also see that Swedish shipping needs to be strengthened and that its competitiveness vis-à-vis other countries needs to be significantly improved. Some important parts of this are to simplify flagging processes for Swedish ships and to streamline government contacts with an actor. It is also possible to give shipping companies advance rulings as to whether or not they qualify for maritime aid is important. These questions are not new, but the Moderates have been demanding this for a long time. The Government is to be congratulated for having established an investigation into simplified ship registration in December 2015 in which the Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency's Delegation for Maritime Support investigated the conditions for a coherent and simplified procedure. When the investigation was finalized, an official web-based login portal was recommended for easier and more efficient handling of the processes, much in accordance with the proposals that we Moderates have made in the past and are now presenting. The investigation finalised its proposals at the end of 2016 and reportedly this is still being prepared within the Government Office. We think it is time for the government to act on this issue, in accordance with the proposals of the investigation. At the same time, we believe that the government should evaluate the tonnage tax, which was introduced in January 2017. It is extremely relevant to get more ships to flag Swedish. Most other countries make continuous adjustments to their tonnage taxes, but Sweden has not yet evaluated its tonnage tax in order to see how it has affected the flag. We in the Moderates are absolutely convinced that the tonnage tax is good but that it must be made more inclusive and adapted to both the time we live in and how other countries have chosen to design the same types of taxes. If this is not done, Swedish shipping will be disadvantaged in competition, and there is a great risk that fewer ships will flag Swedish in the future. Madam President, I would like The Moderates also welcome the developments in inland waterway transport and barge traffic. The national coordinator of this has made many sensible proposals, and we hope that the government will listen to the coordinator and act in accordance with these proposals. For example, barge traffic could replace many truck transports by road via our major lakes and canals. Concrete decisions are needed to promote barge traffic and make it an attractive alternative to driving goods by road. Madam President, I would like Of course, we support all our reservations, but in order to save time at voting time, I only call for reservation 1 on improving the competitiveness of Swedish maritime transport.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-686	Madam President, I would like I could not help it, even though maritime issues are not really my questions even if I sit in committee. This applies above all to the reservation we have regarding the financing form of the Swedish Maritime Administration. I am a little worried about the rather sudden reversal that is being made about a rather big thing, namely how an authority is financed. At the same time, there is not a single crown in the moderate draft budget for the financing of the maritime service that you are now running, Maria Stockhaus, so I wonder: how do you really view this? What do you want to achieve with this reversal, which actually takes place without any real thought? The shipping industry is a very special industry. There is a collaboration between employers, shipowners, the Swedish Maritime Administration and also trade unions so that shipping can feel as good as possible, and that is very good. It is good for Sweden that we have a shipping industry that works that way. But here the Moderates, along with a number of other parties, run in advance and want an announcement stating quite clearly that they want us to move from a business-driven work to a tax-funded work – without dedicating a single crown to it. So what are you thinking here?
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-690	Madam President, I would like That is an interesting question from Teres Lindberg, which may well take our proposal a little too far. It is a question of making a proper evaluation of both the activities and the funding. The Committee on Finance was given the opportunity to speak but chose not to do so, because they could not see that this directly affected the budget in the first step – which we do not see either. We want to see a proper investigation and evaluation. What is happening right now is that the Swedish Maritime Administration is basically on the brink of ruin. There are a number of major investments in icebreakers that need to be made in the future and that are completely impossible within the framework of the Swedish Maritime Administration today. The only thing they have the opportunity to do is to increase fairway charges, and that is a disadvantage for shipping in relation to other modes of transport. We want to see an evaluation that looks at other possibilities and, depending on what that evaluation lands in, there will of course have to be a review of how it will be financed in the future. However, we are not there, but what we have been advocating is an evaluation and a proper investigation by the Swedish Maritime Administration. It is clear that they are not working in a sustainable way today.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-693	Madam President, I would like I just think it's a strange move: the Moderates had the Ministry of Infrastructure for eight years and did not deliver at all in the maritime field, Maria Stockhaus, and now you are here nagging about evaluations, investigations and so on. It's about time. Now we've delivered. We have come with the tonnage tax, which actually ensures that we get flags to Sweden again. In the eight years you led the government, however, the opposite effect was seen, i.e. that the flags were only increasing, and there was no concrete policy to tackle anything here. Now we have actually brought about the tonnage tax, and before it has even worked properly – we only see the effects so far – you say that it is not enough, that it is not good enough and that it needs to change. It is clear that we must have a developed maritime sector and a maritime sector under continuous development, but I think that is actually happening at the moment. Therefore, it becomes strange when you kind of shoot from the hip and without dedicating a single crown to it says that something should go from being a business driver to being tax-funded. I do not think it is a serious action by Sweden's second largest party. I would appreciate a somewhat more serious tone in this area of policy, Madam President.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-696	Madam President, I would like Of course, politics is constantly evolving. Now we are in a position where we have a maritime service that is basically on the brink of ruin, with negative capital possibly already this year. Then one cannot continue as usual and think that fairway charges should well be increased a little further. We know that this puts shipping at a disadvantage. We can see that shipping is underused in Sweden – it is probably the mode of transport where there is no congestion at all, but where there are great opportunities to develop. We have many inland waterways that could be exploited. The risk is that the Swedish Maritime Administration, if they are to continue to fund their activities as they do today, will put the development we are seeing at a disadvantage. We have to start from the situation where we stand today, and then we see that the Swedish Maritime Administration has signalled very clearly that the only alternative they have if they are to meet their mission is to continue raising fairway charges. We as a party see that it would disadvantage the development of Swedish shipping, and from where we stand here and now it goes without saying that we want to see an evaluation. We have not landed in what the funding should look like in the future or what the activities at the Swedish Maritime Administration should look like, but now we are in a situation where they clearly signal that this is not sustainable. We also know that in Sweden we need three new icebreakers that cost 1.3 billion each. For us, it is obvious that you then need to lift the lid and look at what kind of business is there, if any changes need to be made in the business and how the funding should be managed – both to strengthen Swedish shipping ahead and to ensure that you manage the investment in icebreakers that is absolutely necessary now.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-699	Madam President, I would like Normally, Jimmy Ståhl would have made this speech, but in these times we all have a responsibility in the current epidemic and the crisis it brings. This means that I have had the pleasure of taking this debate. Madam President, I would like In this report we have two announcements, one on the form and financing of the Swedish Maritime Administration and one on the environmental differentiation of fairway fees. We all know how important shipping is for us to get goods to our stores. Shipping is having a tough time with increasing costs, and if nothing is done about this, there is a great risk that we will have a worse flow of transport. This means that a risk of a shortage of goods may arise, which in turn means that the export companies will face major problems. In any case, they will do so with this crisis. A review of the way the Swedish Maritime Administration operates is necessary to see if the increasing costs of shipping can be offset. The second announcement is that those who invest in environmentally friendly vessels should receive a reduced fairway fee. It is only reasonable that those who invest in cleaner ships also have lower costs. We are very perplexing about why the Green Party has not supported this announcement that would motivate shipping to make major improvements to the environment. Madam President, I would like Since 2014, Sweden has had the opportunity to have its own regulations for our inland waterways, something the government chose to more or less equate with the IMO regulations. Yet there are great opportunities to drive barge ships and relieve the roads with that traffic. Now, for example, a line will be established between Norvik harbour and Mälarhamn. This line is very expensive, but it is important to relieve road traffic. The Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats have a joint reservation 16, which would have allowed much more traffic on inland waterways. We had hoped that more parties would support that reservation. However, we will continue to fight for this opportunity which would significantly contribute to a better environment. Finally, Madam President, I would just like to say that we are in the usual order behind all our reservations. However, in order to save time at voting time, I only agree to reservation 16.
i-Vn7fxb3kngV1Txt765ejax	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 2. Madam President, I would like Sweden is surrounded by water, and shipping is one of our most important ways to both import and export goods worldwide. Ever since we started trading with other countries, shipping has been the natural way of transporting goods, goods and passengers to the continent and the world. The Center Party believes that the shipping industry is central to our prosperity and our trade. Maritime transport is a relatively environmentally friendly form of transport with a great potential to further reduce its environmental and climate impact. Swedish maritime tradition is associated with high maritime safety and environmental awareness. Through a strong Swedish-flagged merchant fleet, which is also at the forefront of the work with lower sulphur emissions and reduced climate impact, Sweden can influence the design of the international regulations for shipping and its employees. The Center Party therefore believes that it is important that the competitiveness of Swedish shipping does not deteriorate. A flagging out of Swedish vessels within shipping companies, merchant fleets and fishing risks impoverishing competence. Sweden's voice in international contexts, and thus our ability to influence the working conditions of the maritime industry, is at risk of silence if the number of Swedish flagged ships is not large enough. The Center Party therefore believes that the potential for increased competitiveness in maritime transport should be reviewed. Madam President, I would like Sweden's place in the Nordic countries also means that we have different seasons with warm summers and in some parts of the country cold winters, which means that parts of the country's fairways are covered with ice. It is therefore of the utmost importance that Sweden soon needs to take a clearer position on how the existing icebreaker fleet should be phased out and when and under what conditions a new icebreaker fleet should be procured. The Center Party believes that the government should move forward on this issue as a matter of urgency, and we want it to be done in a broader perspective, taking into account all relevant government needs. The work should be conducted in close dialogue with freight transport operators, industry and several stakeholders. A further aspect to consider in this context is the need for international cooperation, not least with Finland, to optimise procurement and operation. A few weeks ago, the Swedish Maritime Administration presented its report on the renewal of the icebreaker fleet. Here you will find proposals for new icebreakers, but also proposals for life extensions of several of the icebreakers that Sweden currently has. On the basis of the issue of new icebreakers, it is important that the government presents how to renew the icebreaker fleet. This is based on continuing strong and attractive commercial shipping throughout the country. The funding issue for new icebreakers is also important to raise to the discussion and then also as soon as possible choose the path you want to take. However, it is important to have constant dialogue with the shipping industry on this matter. Madam President, I would like We note that the Swedish Maritime Administration has found it difficult to differentiate fairway charges in a satisfactory way. Today, for example, ships with electric power, and therefore no CO2 emissions, are subject to increased charges. The Maritime Administration therefore needs to take a holistic approach to this issue. The Center Party wants to see a broad review and advocates a developed bonus – the malus model. We also believe that the Swedish Maritime Administration is lacking in its analysis of how increased fairway charges affect the possibility of transferring goods from truck and rail to shipping. This criticism is unanimous from Transportstyrelsen, Trafikverket, Trafikanalys och Regrådet. The Government should therefore commission the Swedish Maritime Administration to better analyse the impact of its fee proposals and promote a developed environmental differentiation in terms of its impact on the transfer of goods to shipping. The Center Party therefore believes that consideration should be given to improving competitiveness and more efficient and better-analysed environmental management in maritime transport, including intermodal transport solutions that stimulate cross-transport modes of freight flow and the transfer of goods to maritime transport. Madam President, I would like I'll say a few words about Corona, too. The Corona virus has hit the whole world for a few months. For Sweden and for Swedish shipping, this has meant a very great deal when it comes to passenger traffic. In times of crisis, it is important that different types of transport can be maintained and carried out. Over the past few weeks, the Centre Party has been in constant contact and dialogue with representatives of shipping and the transport industry, with the aim of constantly having a good knowledge of the situation. We have also, of course, taken part in and discussed what is important for shipping right here and now, but also in the long term in relation to covid-19. Madam President, I would like Without shipping Sweden stops. The whole country, people and industry depend on a functioning shipping from Luleå in the north to Kalmar in the east, Trelleborg in the south and Strömstad in the west and of course also our inland ports in for example Lidköping and Västerås. We need to continue to see shipping as a resource and, together with the shipping industry, develop shipping forward.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-718	Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants to see long-term sustainable shipping with reduced environmental and climate impact, with good working conditions and a large proportion of Swedish flagged ships. We're on our way. However, in order to achieve the climate objectives, we must, in addition to reducing the number of transports, move more freight from road to rail and shipping. Purifying maritime emissions and making a consistent effort to increase the share of freight transport by shipping and by rail is a necessary measure in the transition to a sustainable transport system. Madam President, I would like The Left Party is in favour of reservation 21. As always, we support all our reservations and motions, but we therefore only support reservation 21. The Swedish Energy Agency's strategic plan for the transition to a fossil-free transport sector notes that there is no incentive for investments in technologies that reduce ship greenhouse gas emissions. Some funds have been allocated, but we believe that the government should nevertheless have investment aid investigated through state co-financing for new technologies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions from ships. We also believe that there is a need to examine which additional instruments can be introduced to promote the use of renewable fuels and that the government should come back with proposals for measures and a national objective to increase the share of non-fossil fuels in shipping. Today, there are few rules regulating nitrogen emissions from ships. For the Baltic Sea, which is already heavily overfed, high nitrogen emissions are another burden on the sea as an ecosystem. Today's measures to reduce nitrogen emissions are inadequate. Stricter rules for emissions of nitrogen oxides from newly built vessels operating in the Baltic Sea and the North Sea will be introduced gradually from 2021. However, since ships have a long life span, strong measures are also needed to reduce the emissions of older ships. It is important that efforts for higher environmental standards are speeded up with clear requirements as it may take 30 years before the entire fleet is replaced and complies with the new rules. The Baltic Sea is classified by the IMO as a particularly sensitive sea area and there are therefore strong reasons to strengthen the environmental requirements of vessels operating in the area. We believe that Sweden should act in order to make it possible, in PSSA-classified areas, such as the Baltic Sea, to introduce binding rules to prevent shipping without nitrogen removal to operate them. Madam President, I would like Last year I said in the maritime debate we had at the time that we in the Left Party wanted an investigation into the conditions and consequences of transferring the funding of the Swedish Maritime Administration's activities to the state budget and that we would come back with proposals on this. We did this last autumn, and in the report we are debating today, there are more parties who think like the Left Party. The committee has announced that the Government should investigate the conditions for the Swedish Maritime Administration's operating and financing form in order to find a better agency organisation and funding than the current one. The Swedish Maritime Administration is not financed, such as the Swedish Transport Administration, via grants, but mainly through fees charged by the Swedish Maritime Administration for, among other things, fairway traffic and pilotage. The financing model leads to unequal conditions of competition between the modes of transport and hampers governance towards our transport and environmental policy objectives. I would like to point out here that it is not for us in the Left Party to completely remove the fairway charges. However, a model other than toll-financed businesses with yield requirements gives a greater freedom to use fairway charges as a tool for achieving a more environmentally and climate-smart merchant fleet, increased transport of goods by sea rather than by road, and so on. This can be achieved with a different model instead of simply trying to withdraw enough money to cover the costs of the business, including those that cannot be attributed entirely to merchant shipping. The Swedish Maritime Administration is also facing important investments such as new icebreakers, which are very important and quite urgent to get started with. Icebreakers are important not least for our export industries in the north and for a climate change change, and they should also invest in their fleet so that it becomes more climate- and environmentally friendly. As far as icebreakers are concerned, they should, like winter road maintenance, be funded. A review of the financing model is also particularly urgent now, as Corona has a negative impact on shipping. The Swedish Maritime Administration's revenue is falling sharply. Are these losses to be covered by additional increases in charges with more negative effects on shipping and the transfer of goods from the roads? We need efforts to have a more climate-smart freight sector after the Corona crisis. Last year I also talked about the need for a review of fairway charges and the consequences of the changes that have been made. The committee's second announcement this year is that the government should review the environmental differentiation of fairway charges in order to ensure that their design creates incentives for further climate action without disadvantageing shipping as a mode of transport. Current fairway charges are a competitive disadvantage for commercial shipping vis-à-vis other modes of transport. Fairway charges are used to cover infrastructure costs for the fishing industry and for archipelago and recreational boat traffic as well as costs for commitments at the Swedish Maritime Administration. This means that shipping has a high cost burden compared to other modes of transport. The Swedish Maritime Administration has rescheduled the fees, which have received a lot of criticism from the shipping industry. Costs have increased further and environmental differentiation and incentives for conversion to more environmentally friendly vessels have been reduced. There are clear reasons for the government to review the charges levied by the State through the authorities from shipping. The Left Party believes that a permanent solution that does not disadvantage shipping compared to other modes of transport and at the same time increases the environmental differentiation of the toll must be developed. The Act on Safety and Health at Work states that provisions on the appointment of safety representatives on ships are contained in the Ship Safety Act. However, the Ship Safety Act does not say anything about the safety representatives being appointed by a local employee organisation, i.e. the local trade union. This has given the employer legal scope to appoint safety representatives on board, as is also the case. There have also been cases where the employer has appointed a seasonal employee to be a safety representative, without the appointed person having known what the assignment entails. He or she has not had the opportunity to question, report or negotiate for fear of losing his or her job, which eliminates the basics of working environment cooperation. The Left Party considers that an amendment to the Ship Safety Act should be considered in order to give trade unions the right to appoint safety representatives provided for in Chapter 6. The Act on Health and Safety at Work, including the possibility to practice the system of regional safety representatives. Sweden has acceded to the ILO Maritime Labour Convention, which is great. It clarifies rules on working conditions and human rights on board ships. Sweden has a responsibility to ensure that this is followed up. We in the Left want to ensure that government procurement and export efforts require that human rights be respected at both the production and transport stages. In conclusion, the Left Party believes that shipping is a very important part of Sweden's infrastructure and that we must aim for long-term sustainable shipping, which together with rail takes over large parts of freight transport from the roads.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-740	Madam President, I would like What is a maritime debate in Parliament? It is a debate about jobs, about all the hundreds of thousands of jobs that depend on us trading with others. It is a debate on the environment, because shipping is an efficient and relatively environmentally friendly mode of transport. It is also a debate on national security, because a large and diversified merchant fleet that is Swedish flagged is a prerequisite for necessary transport in the event of a crisis or war. Good conditions for shipping are much more than just shipping itself. There are currently very special circumstances in the world. The Coronapendemy is putting heavy pressure on almost all parts of our society. In addition to health care, the transport sector is probably one of the sectors most affected. We do not yet know what the long-term consequences of the pandemic will be. However, we know that, at the moment, a great deal of support is needed for large parts of the business community. Several of the aids decided on are good, but they are not enough. It becomes clear when you look at shipping and other parts of the transport sector, which have high fixed costs which are not paid and are not paid for locally and are therefore not covered by the aid. The Christian Democrats have therefore proposed that more fixed costs can be met and that this support should not be limited to specific sectors but based on cases in turnover. With our support structure, vulnerable companies in the transport sector would receive far more support than they can get today. Madam President, I would like There is broad agreement in the policy of increasing maritime transport. But there is also a need for a policy that can truly achieve this objective. The most important thing we can do to achieve the goal of more transport at sea is to simplify the conditions for shipping. To do so, we must create competition neutrality. Shipping must be allowed to compete with other modes of transport on equal terms, and Swedish shipowners must be allowed to compete with foreign shipowners on equal terms. Anyone who operates in Swedish waters encounters a phenomenon that is unusual from an international perspective: fairway fees. The fairway fee, which is a package of different components, is an example of Sweden giving shipping worse conditions than most other countries in the world around us. There are other countries that have fairway charges. Finland is one example. But there is a level of fees equivalent to about half of ours because they did a big cut a few years ago. Instead, the Swedish fairway charges have been significantly increased for a few years. The reason for this is well known; the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances must go together. It can't go on like that. That is why I am very pleased with the announcement that the Committee on Transport and Tourism wants to address to the government to investigate the conditions for finding a better agency organisation and funding than the current one. I would like to take this opportunity to urge the government to investigate this very quickly. This is one of the most important changes we can make to improve shipping conditions here in Sweden. Madam President, I would like For many companies it is essential to have long-term and stable conditions, but for investment-heavy companies such as shipping companies it is particularly important. It is therefore unfortunate when conditions that have long been stable change. This happened last autumn when the January parties' budget went through, and the announced reduction in maritime subsidies, the net model as it is usually called, was implemented. Dismissing the principle that has been applied is dangerous because it creates uncertainty for the future. This deterioration risks causing shipowners to ask themselves questions such as: Why should the business be located in Sweden?
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-752	What is the next principle to depart from? Can there be more deterioration? If the shipowners ask these questions, it is bad for Sweden. When the January parties deteriorated the conditions for shipping by abandoning the net model, we Christian Democrats kept the full amount in our budget. Industry must have long-term prospects. Madam President, I would like For a few years we have seen an increase in the number of Swedish-flagged merchant vessels. That's good, but I'm sure it could be even better. The Christian Democrats believe that it is high time to start developing our tonnage tax system and minimise the limitations and uncertainties that exist for shipping companies in the current system. In other countries, the system is continuously turned on to make its own model the most attractive. We Christian Democrats also want to investigate the abolition of stamp duty. Investing in ships requires a great deal of capital. Often this means that a loan is needed. A loan requires collateral. It is guaranteed by a pledge and, when a pledge is issued, a special stamp duty is levied. When it comes to investments of hundreds of millions of crowns, the stamp duty becomes a significant amount. And since climate-smart technologies are often more expensive than conventional technologies, this means that the tax on these investments will be extra high. It is not enough, then, that we have a tax on investment; we also have to pay more tax on a more environmentally friendly investment. So it works exactly the opposite of how it should work. It is precisely for this reason that the removal of stamp duty must be investigated as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like Finally, we must work to ensure that Sweden is the best country to operate in. Then we must realise that rules on taxes and charges and levels of taxes and charges play a major role. Our ambition must be that these should be designed so that the conditions for investing here and operating here are not only good but even best. This applies, of course, to companies in all sectors, but it becomes particularly important when it comes to sectors where there is great international competition, such as the maritime sector.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-761	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating shipping. The Liberals support all our reservations, but choose to apply only for reservation No 23, Some environmental and climate issues. Although the coronavirus has turned its focus towards survival in a tough time for the industry, there will be better times. Then the Swedish maritime industry's successful environmental and climate work is important to strengthen Swedish maritime competitiveness. As I said, the Corona virus has also had a strong impact on Swedish shipping. The recommendations not to leave home have severely affected passenger traffic. It does not work commercially to only carry truck traffic for the shipping companies, which therefore have the toughest. However, a critical level of society must be maintained in order for the necessary goods for the functioning of Swedish society to be transported. Clean cargo handling is also decreasing, and if the crisis continues, the whole industry will be severely affected. We must keep a close watch on developments and combine further measures if necessary. It is important that, even after the crisis, we have a well-functioning shipping and infrastructure in the form of our ports. Madam President, I would like Sweden has large raw materials assets and world-leading companies that export most of their production, such as wood products and vehicles, to all parts of the world. This gives good income to Sweden and in turn finances our welfare. Maritime transport accounts for about 90 percent of our transport to the world. In addition, when the world is not affected by Corona virus, approximately 30 million passengers are transported to and from Sweden. That is why it is important that we continue to have effective shipping. We can also note that within the country we are beginning to reach the capacity ceiling on our roads and railways and that our inland waterways are an asset that we are not using enough. We should step up efforts to implement the EU's regulatory framework for our inland waterways in order to be able to relieve the burden of land transport more quickly and to achieve more sustainable transport. In particular, barge traffic has great potential. These areas show how important shipping is for Sweden both economically and environmentally. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Maritime Administration is a central part of the development of maritime transport. The Authority is mainly financed by fees from merchant shipping. However, for a number of years the work has been loss-making and therefore launched a new fee model in 2018 that would ensure a balanced economy. However, it is far from the target of 25 % equity. Today they are at 10%. To reach 25%, a further increase in fairway charges is required, which could jeopardise Swedish maritime competitiveness. We therefore want to see a dialogue between the Swedish Maritime Administration and representatives of the shipping industry on how a tariff system could be designed. There, transport efficiency and incentives for wise environmental choices can guide and the Swedish Maritime Administration's long-term economy can be ensured. However, there are heavy investment decisions in the future. Not least, our icebreakers must be replaced in the near future. With the effect of the Corona virus with reduced fairway fees, a review may need to be carried out whether the Swedish Maritime Administration needs an additional supplement in order not to dramatically increase the fees for merchant shipping. However, we intend that the Swedish Maritime Administration will remain as a business. The Swedish icebreakers urgently need to be replaced. Icebreakers have an important function to keep Swedish ports ice-free so that companies can plan the shipment of products safely through our ports all year round. It is important that the procurement of icebreakers is started as soon as possible, and that it is done from a broad perspective that takes into account different government needs – not least from a defence point of view – and that cooperation with Finland is considered at the same time. Finally, Madam President, it is positive for the climate to transport large flows of goods on water rather than on the road. Climate investment in shipping is important for reducing emissions and the number of road transport while maintaining our competitiveness. The environmental impact of fairway charges is important here. It could also be about making ports and other places where goods are moved from road transport to shipping more efficient. In order to reach Sweden's target of 70% CO2 reduction in transport by 2030, we need to increase our investment in electrification of smaller ferries and ships. In addition, as far as possible, biofuels should be given priority, inter alia, to maritime transport in order to facilitate the transition of the industry to fossil-free transport. Swedish shipping has an important task in showing the potential for fossil-free transport, and I therefore call for our reservation No 23 on environmental and climate issues.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-774	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the reservations supported by the Green Party, i.e. Nos 7 and 10. Otherwise, I support the proposal in the report. Maritime transport is a very important part of Sweden's interconnection with the rest of the world. It is not least in these times of crisis how important it is to have efficient transport both in order to bring in the necessary goods and to get out the products that Sweden exports. However, in my speech, I will focus mainly not on the Corona crisis, but, as stated in the report, on maritime transport as a whole. Approximately 90 per cent of Swedish imports and exports go to sea. This really shows the scale of shipping. Although the acute crisis of the Corona virus must be addressed, we must also look to the future. Now really is the time to think seriously about how robust our society is and how we can counter future crises. The climate crisis places great demands on the transformation of society, not least the transformation of all modes of transport. In order to avoid excessive consequences of a change in the climate, the global temperature increase needs to be kept below two degrees. With the climate law as its goal, Sweden has stated that we will have net zero emissions in 2045. This means that virtually all sectors must achieve zero emissions. Maritime transport has the potential to be a very important part of climate change, as it is an energy efficient mode of transport. A ship can be equivalent to 300 trucks but is powered only by the equivalent of 20 truck engines. Therefore, the Government has a freight transport strategy aimed at shifting goods from truck to rail and shipping. At the same time, shipping is still extremely dependent on fossil energy. Maritime transport also has other environmental impacts that are important to manage. Unfortunately, greenhouse gas emissions from shipping are increasing for both domestic and international shipping. Emissions from domestic shipping were 738,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2018. This compares with 678 000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent in 2010. Emissions from international shipping are significantly higher and have increased by 22% from 6 946,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent to 8 474 000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from 2010 to 2018. This is a development that must be broken. In the climate action plan, the government stated that it would like to prepare the possibility of targets for shipping too by giving a mandate to the Environmental Objectives Committee. The reason is that foreign shipping is not actually included in the net zero target for 2045. Nevertheless, these emissions are significant and need to be reduced. The government wants to ensure that there is adequate governance in this area as well. Setting a target is, of course, one step, but concrete measures are also needed for shipping. Electricity and batteries can provide a good solution for ferries that run relatively short distances. Even when ships are in port, a land connection with electricity may avoid using diesel engines to supply the ship with electricity. But for more long-distance shipping, other solutions are needed. Here I want to pay particular attention to the potential of biogas, i.e. LBG, which is liquid biogas. However, there is a major challenge in regulating shipping, as it, like aviation, is largely governed by international agreements and is exposed to tough international competition. Maritime transport is also exposed to competition from other modes of transport, not least from lorry traffic. It is therefore important that the competitive relationship between them should be levelled out. We therefore believe that it is important for truck traffic to bear its environmental and infrastructure costs in the future. The Green Party was the driving force behind the introduction of eco-bonus, which is an environmental compensation to shipowners to move goods from road to shipping. The Ecobonus system has been extended to 2022. The Green Party would like to see a broader eco-bonus to further stimulate the transfer of goods to shipping. It is simply more climate-smart to transport goods by sea and rail than by lorry. At the same time, clear incentives are needed for shipping to switch. The Green Party wants to see more environmentally responsible fairway fees. The construction of the maritime fees relating to environmental differentiation changed as late as 1 January 2018. However, the climate governance effect has been assessed as very small by SOFT authorities, which recently presented their report Control Station for Strategic Plan for the Conversion of Transport to Fossil Freedom. SOFT authorities consist of the Swedish Energy Agency, Boverket, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, Trafikanalys, Trafikverket and the Swedish Transport Agency. They have the task of coordinating the work on the modal shift of the transport sector. The SOFT authorities propose that different instruments be explored and that measures be taken to promote the use of renewable fuels by shipping, including the possibility of increasing investments in ships to increase energy efficiency and the use of renewable fuels, as well as the availability of renewable fuel infrastructure for shipping. However, it is noted that there are few instruments and measures implemented to reduce the climate impact of shipping. VTI has also recently produced a report on the most effective measures to reduce maritime emissions of air pollutants and greenhouse gases. This project has had the appropriate name Carrots and whips. I think we can see that both are needed. There is a need to stimulate research and innovation, as well as the doubling of funding for maritime research mentioned earlier by Teres Lindberg. There is also a need for clear instruments that have tangible consequences for those who do not change, which would strengthen the competitiveness of those who take the lead and change. VTI notes that Sweden is at the forefront, which means that we cannot easily find inspiration in other countries. At the same time, the report makes it very clear that we need more environmental management in order to achieve our climate and environmental objectives. VTI highlights both speed limits and electrification and increased use of both LNG and LBG. However, due to the ongoing work of the Swedish Maritime Administration, which intends to introduce changes to the environmental differentiation from 2021 onwards, we do not see any need for the Swedish Green Party to address a announcement to the government at this time. Madam President, I would like However, when we want to move goods from road to shipping, it is very important that we do not just look at the climate issue. Like all modes of transport, shipping also has other environmental impacts in addition to climate impacts. This has recently been highlighted by the Institute for the Environment, which highlights environmental pressures, such as eutrophication, release of dangerous substances, physical disturbance and the spread of alien species. It is important that the environmental impact of shipping is managed, so that we can take full advantage of the energy efficiency and climate potential of shipping. In particular, there is an untapped potential for domestic shipping and barge traffic. I look forward to seeing the work and proposals of the national maritime coordinator implemented. The ships that are being ordered, built and put into service today will live for a very long time to come. The transition in shipping therefore needs to accelerate, while at the same time strengthening shipping, so that we can benefit from its energy efficiency. We need shipping to secure our connections to the outside world. In particular, access to train ferries is an important complement to the Öresund Bridge, which I did not mention earlier. Therefore, the Green Party will continue to work to promote both increased shipping and the necessary conversion of shipping.
i-19e7640c7a732d9e-791	Madam President, I would like Maritime transport is an important part of the Swedish transport system. Approximately 90% of all imports and exports are carried out by sea. Shipping and our ports are therefore crucial for Sweden to function as a nation. Without functioning shipping, industry will not be able to contribute with the revenues that enable us to maintain a well-functioning welfare state. It is therefore important that the government contributes to the development of maritime transport. Regular review of tonnage taxation and the review of fairway and environmental charges are good methods that can be used to strengthen shipping, so that we are always at the forefront and thus develop Swedish shipping. Madam President, I would like I am the first to admit that the government has taken some good steps. There has been a flagging of ships. At the same time, these measures are not enough. Maritime transport highlights several measures that are needed if Sweden is to become an attractive maritime nation. Review of fees, new icebreakers and another form of funding by the Swedish Maritime Administration are issues that are often highlighted. We are therefore pleased that in this report we have received a majority for two announcements to the government. The first is that the Government should investigate the conditions for the Swedish Maritime Administration's activities and financing form in order to find a better agency organisation and funding than current ones. The second is that the government should review the environmental differentiation of fairway charges to ensure that their design creates incentives for further climate action without disadvantageing shipping as a mode of transport. These are two important announcements that we are very happy to be able to support. It should also have been possible to reach an agreement on barge traffic, but we did not get there all the way through this round. From a Christian Democrat point of view, we hope that we will go further when it comes to barges. It could be an environmental measure that also relieves other traffic. Madam President, I would like Many people talk about the environment, which is a good thing, but fine speech is not enough. There must also be a policy that reduces emissions over time. Maritime transport faces major challenges, and everyone knows that changes are needed in terms of both fuel and power supply when they are in port. None of this will happen overnight, but the ships that we have today will be used until their economic and technical operating time is up. It is therefore important that we implement changes that encourage better environmental choices in both the short and long term. The electrification of shipping and the use of other fuels is good. This will lead to positive changes over time. But as long as we have ships that run on more classic fuels, these fuels also need to be developed in the most environmentally sound way possible. It is therefore worrying that the government has not authorised Preemraf to expand its facility in Lysekil. We need better fuels, both for the environment and for Sweden's long-term preparedness. From a Christian Democrat point of view, therefore, we hope that we can get a positive response as soon as possible that will enable us to reduce the emissions of ships operating on our ports. Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 3.
