i-638ff6c271b16524-0	Honourable Members, here in this House and around Sweden! Welcome back to Parliament and a new year of work! I hope that, despite the special circumstances, you have had a nice summer and that you have been able to gather strength for the autumn. The parliamentary work, like everything else in society, was characterized during the spring by the coronapandemine, with fewer members in place during voting, changed working methods for the committees and a greater digital focus. However, matters have been prepared and debated, decisions have been taken and government power has been reviewed. My ambition has been that Parliament should be able to fulfil its tasks despite the difficult circumstances, and this is an ambition that I know you share. I think that this spring we have shown both the Swedish people and the rest of the world that the Riksdag has continued to work. We have shown that our democratic institutions are also in crisis. My hope is that the Swedish people feel that they can trust that the Riksdag and its members are always ready to do their duty. This spring – a spring like no other – ended in this House with a memorial ceremony for the victims of the pandemic. We wanted to honor the memory of those who died and express our compassion for those who were affected in other ways. I thought it was important to stop and remember everything we've lost and everyone we've lost. Even though the spread of infection has been curbed during the summer, since June, additional people have died and additional people have been affected in various other ways. Even today, my thoughts go to those who have lost their lives, to those who have lost a loved one or a friend, and to those who have become unemployed or are concerned about the future for other reasons. I and all of us in Parliament are also grateful to the hard-pressed health workers and other professionals who have fought heroically during the pandemic and who continue to fight. Now that summer passes this autumn, we all long for the day when life and work can return to more normal forms. Unfortunately, that day has not yet arrived. The situation regarding the spread of infection has improved in our country, but the crisis is not over. We must continue to hold on, hold on and keep our distance. That is why you are fewer than usual sitting in this House at this sitting, which this very year does not contain a real appeal. A list of all 349 members in office during the parliamentary year will be notified shortly and attached to the minutes. According to the parliamentary order, it is possible to do so instead of making calls for the years in which the Riksdag does not re-assess after an election. Therefore – due to the pandemic – the opening of the Parliamentary Session also needed to be organised in special forms. It is a challenge to carry out the opening in solemn forms and with respect for tradition, while at the same time endeavouring to reduce the risk of transmission of infection. According to an agreement between the group leaders of the parties, 190 members will attend the opening session. The fact that the group leaders agreed on that particular figure depends, as you know, on the decisions to be taken later this afternoon. In some cases, the proposals require the support of a qualified majority to be approved, and this means, among other things, that at least 175 Members must vote in favour. In order to ensure that decisions are taken, group leaders have also agreed on a safety margin of 15 additional members. It is regrettable that not all Members can take part on this very special day. I hope, however, that even those of you who come digitally will feel something of the festive atmosphere and solemnity of the day. The ambition has been that all parts and components that are usually included should also be included this year, as far as possible, but in scaled down or otherwise adapted form. His Majesty the King will, at my request, declare the Parliamentary Session open, and the Prime Minister will make his declaration of government. The number of guests is much smaller than usual, and individual persons can represent it as a normal year is a whole guest category with many participants, such as ambassadors. But on the other hand, it happens more than usual digitally. In addition to the opening itself being broadcast as usual on the Riksdag's website and by SVT, a special program with guests and interviews about the opening of the Parliamentary Session will be broadcast live on the Riksdag's website at 3 p.m. The party concert, which is usually held at Konserthuset in the evening, has been pre-recorded this year in the Second Chamber hall without an audience and is broadcast on the website at kl. 15.30. It will be a nice musical experience, albeit in digital form. Then there is a musical dilettante like the President who introduces the pieces in a certainly not at all competent way, but I would ask you to ignore that. One news during the opening of the Parliamentary Session from this year onwards is that the Director of Parliament will join the procession during the entrance to the Chamber. I have decided, after consultation with the Presidium of Presidents, to symbolise that Parliament's administration is an important part of the Riksdag. This year both the Speakers' Bureau and the Parliamentary Director will go directly to the podium, but a normal year the Director will take up the position of the Secretary of the Chamber at the same time as the Speakers' Bureau will enter the podium. Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the pandemic, parliamentary work must continue to be adapted during the autumn. The group leaders have agreed to extend the agreement on the participation of only 55 members in votes until the Christmas recess. Some people in our country have understood that only 55 Members are active and work in Parliament, but of course you and I know that it is quite wrong. The recommendation that everyone who can work from home should continue to be taken into account by the members of the Riksdag and by the staff of the Riksdag Administration. Therefore, all members of the Riksdag are in office and work in committees, party groups, investigations and many other contexts, but also this autumn to a large extent at a distance. It will continue to be possible to participate digitally in committee meetings, in accordance with the decision of the House in June, but it will now also be possible for the committees and the EU Board to meet physically with virtually all Members present. Some specific premises will be used, where it is possible to keep the necessary distance. We have all had to get used to digital meetings, but of course it will not be the same as meeting physically. The conversations are not as dynamic and nuanced. I am therefore pleased that we have found a solution which will allow the committees, if they so wish, to meet with the majority of Members physically on the ground. Although our digital skills have increased significantly and the meetings – at least eventually in the spring – have worked beyond expectations, there are still challenges. The need for flexible and reliable tools for teleworking has increased and changed. The Swedish Parliament Administration has since last spring focused both on developing existing solutions and on new functions to meet new needs. An example of a function that has been added is that some sessions now have the opportunity to take part in meetings at a distance while other Members are present in the Chamber. The expansion of the number of conference rooms with the possibility of video meetings – so-called Skype Room – has also begun, and the first two new rooms are almost completed. During the autumn this intensive work continues. For example, a number of additional halls, with room for more physical participants, will be equipped so that meeting participants can connect digitally. Other activities are under investigation. However, the focus is clear – this is an area with a high focus and high priority for the Riksdag administration. Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps it has become something of a tradition that the President on this occasion is delivering a number of touchsticks – or, speaking of the President's rounds, perhaps rather moral cookies. Regardless of this, here are a few calls and things that I would like to ask you to think about during the forthcoming Parliamentary Session. Firstly, speaking of digital meetings, I would like to stress the importance of groomed clothing in these meetings too. Or am I perhaps not the right man to demand this after attending a digital meeting of Presidents with jacket and shirt on the upper body but barefoot and shorts in addition? I think we're leaving that point! Instead, let me, joke aside, first remind those of you who write speeches digitally to send the speeches in advance by e-mail to our minutes notaries. It is a relatively simple measure for you, but it saves a lot of work for them. I would also like to point out, in the light of the general exercise period, the importance of clear claims and clear justifications in all motions. In fact, there may be a lack of clarity or a lack of clarity in the form of claims or justifications. A motion must be able to form the basis for a parliamentary decision. It is therefore important that it contains clear claims as to what measures the exerciser wants the government to take. It is also important that the motion contains a clear justification for each motion. If there are several forms of motion in the same motion, you should be able to see in the text which part of the statement of reasons belongs to which claim. You can read more about this on the intranet. It is also possible to book special training courses on the technique of exercise writing. Let me also mention an issue related to the pandemic. I have already received a few questions from Members about my views and those of the Riksdag on foreign missions during the autumn. I suppose more people will think about this in the future. So let me put it this way: The Riksdag has not formulated any further assessments or recommendations in addition to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' travel recommendations. As you know, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs advises against non-necessary travel to a wide range of countries, but as I see it, this does not preclude Members of Parliament from making missions that are deemed to be politically important to these countries. I would therefore recommend, on a general level, reflection and restraint, but if a Member considers that a particular trip is very urgent, it would be wrong for the Parliament as an institution to consider that assessment. I have full confidence in each Member's judgement, but of course I urge everyone to be careful and to examine carefully the conditions for the journey itself and the conditions at the destination. There may also be reason to examine whether the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' travel recommendations affect the validity of various insurance policies. Ladies and gentlemen! As always, the opening of the Parliamentary Session is the starting point for something new, and in the rebirth there is always hope. I would therefore like to conclude with a piece of the poem Om h östen av Edith Södergran. It beautifully depicts the sadness of the end of the summer, but also the hope that everything is moving on. Now it's autumn and the golden birds all fly home over deep blue water; on the beach I sit and stare at the beautiful glitter and the farewell is whizzing through the branches. There's a big break-up, the divorce is imminent, but I'm sure the reunion is. I am very happy to see you all here, and I know that you are all now ready for an intense and productive autumn. Let me wish you a nice day today and a fine Parliamentary meeting! See you in this Chamber at 2 p.m.
