i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-0	Before we start the debate, I would like to welcome the representatives of the diplomatic corps to the foreign policy debate. We are pleased that you are following the negotiations here in the Chamber. You are most welcome to the Swedish parliament.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-1	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the diplomatic corps, ladies and gentlemen. Sweden's foreign policy is conducted with the aim of creating security in our country and in our surrounding world. The conflicts, climate crisis and refugee flows of recent years show that what happens far from our national borders also affects us in Sweden. The world is becoming more unpredictable, and it's getting closer. The ongoing coronavirus outbreak shows how interconnected the world is. There are those who think that we should close the door to cooperation, as if the problems would disappear if we just closed our eyes. My conviction is that we need to face a troubled world with more cooperation and solidarity. International problems require international responses. It is being demonstrated for freedom and justice around the world. The climate movement is gathering millions of people in streets and squares. We have a responsibility to listen to their strong appeals. A well-functioning international cooperation and international law are the basis for a world order where rules and agreements go ahead of the strong one's right. It is a prerequisite for a safe and secure Sweden. We stand up for democracy, diplomacy, dialogue and cooperation. This is how we defend our interests, values and security. That's how we make the world safer. Mr President, I would like to The EU is our most important foreign and security policy arena. No other actor is to such an extent a guarantor of the Swedish economy, security and peace. Sweden shall participate fully in EU cooperation and in its design in a way that protects Swedish interests. Britain has now left the EU, and it is time to look to the future. Sweden will continue to have as close and comprehensive a relationship as possible with the UK. We also strengthen the relationship with key Member States such as Germany and France as well as Nordic cooperation. This makes our region safer and more sustainable. In the Nordic Council of Ministers, the Government is driving the implementation of the shared vision that the Nordic region will be the world's most sustainable and integrated region in 2030. A renewed Swedish Arctic Strategy will be presented during the year. For several years, the rule of law and respect for the EU's fundamental values have been undermined in some Member States. Together with the European Commission and other Member States, Sweden is clearly reacting to these developments. There is concern today among many that EU enlargement is moving too fast. We take that seriously. At the same time, a close relationship with the countries of the Western Balkans is important for our common security and economy. We want to find a way forward that unites the EU and that makes a clear contribution to the reform process in the Western Balkans. Here is the opportunity to become a member in the long term important. The Commission has previously proposed the start of negotiations for Albania and North Macedonia. Sweden has been prepared to support it. Sweden supports the proposal for a review of the enlargement process and it is important that all the necessary requirements are met before a country joins. Mr President, I would like to Diplomacy is our main line of defense. The defence committee underlines the importance of safeguarding our sovereignty and Swedish interests. This means being able to use all the security policy instruments available – political, diplomatic, economic and military – in a comprehensive way. That's how we build common security. I would like to express my particular thanks to the Swedes involved in our civilian and military operations in, for example, Afghanistan, Iraq, Mali and Ukraine. You are making an invaluable contribution to peace and security internationally and in Sweden. Europe must take greater responsibility for its own security. The EU's common foreign and security policy must be strengthened in order to defend the EU's interests and values globally. Our security is strengthened by stability and economic development in the neighbourhood of the European Union. We stand by our commitments to support reform processes in Ukraine and in other countries in the EU's eastern neighbourhood. The Eastern Partnership has recently turned ten. Sweden will remain a driving force in the EU for the partnership. We also want to show that a southern partnership is possible. Today there is already close cooperation with the North African countries. But this must be strengthened, and the EU must provide support for the stability and development of these states. Sweden's security policy line is solid. Our military freedom of alliance serves us well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. It requires an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy combined with enhanced defence cooperation, especially with Finland, and a credible national defence capability. We shall contribute to long-term stability and security in our part of Europe. Rapid technological developments, not least in cyber security and AI, are creating new challenges in the borderland between competitiveness, trade and security policy. Sweden's foreign and security policy is based on the cohesion of the EU and increased cooperation on a broad front: in the Nordic region and the Baltic Sea region, within the UN and the OSSE and through the partnership with NATO. A strong transatlantic link is important for the security of Europe and America. The UN plays an important role in peace and security, development and human rights. It is a central arena for Sweden's work on the global challenges. The UN remains a cornerstone of our foreign and security policy. We support Norway in their candidacy for the UN Security Council. Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or an attack strikes another EU country or a Nordic country. We expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. We should therefore be able to provide and receive support, both civilian and military. The Swedish Presidency of the OSSE in 2021 is based on our strong commitment to the European Security Order. It is an important security interest for Sweden to maintain these commonly agreed principles and commitments. Mr President, I would like to All people have the right to live in safety wherever they live. This applies both here at home and in other countries. No one should have to look over their shoulder on their way home from school or work. Since autumn 2014, the Government has implemented a series of measures in the fight against organised crime, including through punitive measures and more police officers, but also with important crime prevention efforts. But we know that this crime also has ramifications abroad. That is why we are taking new initiatives to strengthen law enforcement through our embassies and international cooperation. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we appoint an ambassador to coordinate the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' work against organised crime and support Swedish law enforcement authorities. Our embassies are tasked with monitoring the issue of crime related to Sweden. Some embassies, for example in the Western Balkans, in the South Caucasus and in Latin America, are given a special mandate to give priority to this issue. The Government will continue the successful work against organised crime in the Council of the Baltic Sea States and in the framework of the Barents Council, the EU Eastern Partnership and the Nordic Council of Ministers. Sweden will strengthen efforts to stop the flow of weapons and drugs and take new steps towards cross-border crime and terrorism. Europol and Eurojust are at the heart of this work. Mr President, I would like to Global warming is hitting us here and now. It is not just a matter of direct consequences of more extreme weather – an unstable climate also upsets the economy, food supply and our welfare and security. Climate change is a source of friction and conflict. Sweden will continue to show leadership through a climate diplomacy that encourages other countries to raise ambitions. The EU is a necessary force in global climate action. Sweden will continue to show leadership within and outside the EU and become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Our climate work is ranked highest in the world. We have doubled our contribution to the Green Climate Fund, and we are working both at home and internationally for a fair transition. Working ecosystems are a prerequisite for all life. Forests, wetlands and seas are home to rich biodiversity. The marine environment is under strong pressure from climate change, over-exploitation, pollution and eutrophication. The government wants to see a global target of 30% of the sea covered by marine area protection. Mr President, I would like to Democracy in the world continues to be challenged and questioned. This development threatens the basis of our security and security. Therefore, Sweden is intensifying its efforts to defend and promote democracy in the world through the Drive for Democracy initiative. We are building alliances with like-minded countries and organisations that want to work to strengthen democracy. The appropriations for democracy aid have been increased. We are increasing support for open society, especially for free and independent media and freedom of the press. We defend and promote the rights of LGBT people. We are strengthening our efforts to combat corruption, which is one of the worst obstacles to development. All suspicions of corruption in aid are followed up and addressed. We are developing the importance of trade as a platform for dialogue on human rights and democracy. By 2022, Swedish export credits for investments for the exploration and extraction of fossil fuels shall cease. Increasing anti-Semitism is a growing cloud of concern throughout the world and a threat to democracy. The Prime Minister has therefore initiated an international forum in Malmö in October 2020 to commemorate the Holocaust and combat anti-Semitism. Mr President, I would like to The rights of women and girls are under attack. Conservative forces are trying to limit the right of women and girls to decide over their bodies and lives. Issues relating to women, peace and security, as well as women's sexual and reproductive health and rights are particularly important to stand up for. To reverse this trend, courageous efforts are needed at all levels. That is why we are pursuing a feminist foreign policy. It is gratifying that we have been joined by countries such as France, Canada, Luxembourg and Mexico. Within the EU, Sweden and France have taken initiatives to streamline the EU's work on gender equality, and we are establishing a feminist trade policy. Mr President, I would like to Around the world 165 million people need humanitarian aid. Agenda 2030 contains a roadmap for sustainable development that permeates Sweden's work. Sweden has effective world-class aid. The government stands by the 1% target. War is a disaster for people and communities. Often the children suffer the worst. Both at home, within the UN and within the EU, Sweden is working to take advantage of rights and increase the protection of children. It is important for the EU to have a common asylum system that is legally secure, humane and sustainable in the long term, where all countries assume their responsibilities. The right of asylum must be protected. Extreme poverty has decreased since 1990, but inequality is increasing. Inequality is not only unfair and an obstacle to economic development – it also creates a breeding ground for tensions and conflict. We have seen examples of this in several major demonstrations around the world, not least in Chile. Increased equality is part of Sweden's foreign policy. The Global Deal initiative promotes social dialogue and sustainable growth globally. In some countries there is a danger of life to stand up for union engagement and decent working conditions. Trade union rights are part of our democracy effort and will be addressed in all the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' country reports on human rights. Mr President, I would like to World trade helps to lift entire countries out of poverty and to implement Agenda 2030. As an EU member, Sweden operates a free and fair trade policy that contributes to sustainable development and creates jobs throughout the country. Every third job in Sweden depends on our trade with the outside world. We are gathering strength through an updated export and investment strategy for the whole of Sweden. The Expo 2020 World Exhibition in Dubai showcases Swedish companies' competitiveness in sustainability and innovation. Mr President, I would like to We cannot stand passively in the face of the nuclear threat. Developments are worrying: arms control agreements are abandoned. Nuclear arsenals are being expanded and modernised. Disarmament and non-proliferation are a central foreign and security policy priority for the government. The government is contributing through the Stockholm Nuclear Disarmament Initiative to a forthcoming review conference on the NPT Non-Proliferation Treaty. Work is now under way at a new ministerial meeting in Germany. As Chairman of the IAEA, Sweden takes responsibility for non-proliferation. Compliance with the nuclear agreement JCPOA is central. Sweden is pushing in the framework of the Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons for an effective international ban on deadly autonomous weapons systems that are incompatible with the requirements of international law. Mr President, I would like to Our relationship with the United States is central to Sweden's security and prosperity. A functioning international community requires a committed United States. It is worrying that the United States is leaving multilateral cooperation. The government is working to ensure that the trade relationship with the US works well and that threats of new trade barriers are not implemented. The Russian policy of the government is solid. Where we have common interests, we, like the European Union, can and should cooperate with Russia. It benefits our security and stability in the immediate area. We condemn Russian aggression against Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea. These violations of international law challenge the European security regime. The government stands up for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and for each country's right to choose its own security policy path. We are in favour of maintaining EU sanctions against Russia as long as the reasons for their introduction remain. Sweden is ready to contribute to regional detour and dialogue in the Middle East. We continue our commitment to the global coalition against Daish. Kurds, Christians and other minorities in the region must be protected. The government is concerned about a good relationship with both Israel and Palestine. Sweden, like the rest of the EU, is working towards a solution based on international law where two states can live together in peace and security. The government has condemned Iran for the shooting down of a civilian aircraft in which 17 people resident in Sweden died. We are calling for an independent and transparent investigation. We have both cooperation and a critical dialogue with Turkey. The EU has condemned Turkey's offensive in north-eastern Syria. At the same time, for almost nine years the Syrian regime has ruthlessly bombed its own country into ruins. All permits for Swedish exports of war material to Turkey have been revoked. The humanitarian, political and economic crisis in Venezuela is worsening day by day. Together with the international community, we are working towards a peaceful solution. The increasing polarisation in Bolivia is serious and has led to escalating violence and vandalism. China's increasingly active role in the global arena presents opportunities and challenges. We welcome Parliament's agreement on the letter on our China policy. We are conducting a straight and open dialogue with China based on our interests and those of the European Union. Human rights and freedom of expression are important elements. India is an important global player and partner for Sweden. It is an important market that will play an increasingly important role in growth and employment in our country. At the UN climate summit in New York, Sweden and India launched a global leadership group to drive the climate transition in the heavy industry, for a fossil-free future. The African continent has a young population, but the challenges are also great. Human rights, democracy and gender equality are priority issues in Sweden's Africa policy, but it is also migration and trade. The security situation in the Sahel continues to be very worrying, not least in Mali. The region is characterised by weak states. The situation is a breeding ground for radicalisation. Mr President, I would like to The Ministry for Foreign Affairs handles many consular matters. These could be crises, disasters or detentions. Most people get unpublicized support, but some get a lot of attention. The work of helping Swedes in distress abroad is always done with the best interests of those affected. In troubled times with sharp tone from world leaders and aggressive power behaviour, Sweden shows that another path is possible. In an open and democratic climate of tough debates but also the search for consensus, we show that freedom, equality and transparency are not yesterday's solutions. Sweden is and remains one of the world's best countries to live in, and we make a difference in our world. We Swedes should be proud of that.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-68	Mr President, I would like to I have here in my hand a copy of the Foreign Minister's declaration. I could do like Nancy Pelosi in the U.S. Congress and tear it apart. However, I am not doing so, and I can give you two good reasons for this. The first reason is that I essentially share the view expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the declaration. It is to a large extent a Swedish line. The second reason is that I believe that we politicians in Sweden have a responsibility to avoid a development like that we see in a number of other countries towards polarisation and the brutalisation of the internal political debate in these countries. I do not think there is any difference between the Minister for Foreign Affairs and me on this point. That is why I would also like to give the Minister for Foreign Affairs and her party good advice: avoid participating in a debate that brutalises the climate of Swedish debate. This can mean that things are getting worse and worse, and there are warning examples in the outside world. It's about how to tweet. It's about how to hold your first-May speeches. It is about how to describe the opposition and how to smear and try to suspect. I think we should stay too good for that. Mr President, I would like to One of the big points – or perhaps the only big point – in the Foreign Minister's speech was the force that one wants to highlight against crime. You set up an ambassador at the State Department, and it could be beautiful like that. I believe, however, that we should be rather self-critical and realise that we need to do more at home against crime, violence and crime. If we are to have credibility and if this ambassador is to be able to play any role, we must also do our own homework. This means more police officers in Sweden, and it means increased work to criminalise various forms of violence and crime. This too should be mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-74	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Wallmark for his constructive approach. I fully agree that it is a strength for Sweden as a country to have a broad consensus in foreign and security policy and also in defence policy. As far as the issue of organised crime is concerned, we obviously see the need for action here at home, with more police officers, penalties and so on. But we also see that the branching to other countries is very important, and our embassies, in particular, can play a major role. Of course, it is not the case that we appoint ambassadors and help in this way, but it is just to indicate that we need to coordinate this work better. Our embassies must now give special priority to this work where there are branches. I think it is good for these countries too. After all, matters relating to the arms trade, drugs and corruption not only go to other countries, but also to those countries that have these problems. I think international cooperation here can be a good thing. I believe that Sweden can cooperate with countries with branches in Sweden, and I hope for broad support in the Swedish Parliament for this work. I am also looking forward to new proposals on how to strengthen it during the year.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-78	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the Foreign Minister can hope and expect that the Moderates will come forward with proposals on how to combat crime. Mr President, I would like to The police density per 100,000 inhabitants in Sweden in 2014 was 2.06. The police density per 100,000 inhabitants in Sweden in 2019 was 1.98. So it's sinking. With the proposal launched by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, it can be said that the ambassador's density on these issues in 2014 was zero; the ambassador's density in 2020 will be one. You have to ask what's the main thing and what's the side matter. I believe that what the Foreign Minister says about an ambassador's ability to coordinate can be correct and correct. However, one cannot get away from the main thing – what really allows work against crime. It is an international issue. Just look at what Denmark, with the new Social Democratic Government, has done to Sweden. They have introduced temporary border controls. It shows that the outside world may not put its trust in how we deal with this, the ambassador's service in spite of it.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-81	Mr President, I would like to It is not, of course, a positive development to set up barriers to borders; we would have preferred to have seen that this could have been solved in other ways. Now, however, we know that this has not been a major problem, but I have to say that the Danish side has really dealt with this in a good way. The point of the whole thing is that you have to see domestic and foreign policy as things to interact. It cannot be that we invest very much in law enforcement in Sweden, for example, but forget that this also has a very strong international connection. That is why I think it is important to include in foreign policy things that are major challenges here at home and that we use all the instruments that we actually have. That is the point of raising the fight against crime and international crime in the foreign declaration.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-84	Mr President, I would like to Like Mr Wallmark, I would like to say that it is very easy to agree with much of what the Foreign Minister has said, but there are, of course, a lot of points where we do not agree. What the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said also raises some questions. For example, the Foreign Minister mentioned a feminist trade policy. What does that mean? There are many of us who remember that when she was Minister of Foreign Trade, the Minister went to Iran to discuss mainly truck sales. I would therefore like to mention what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said on 13 September in SVT's News. The Minister for Foreign Affairs then said that we should not look down on exports and that this is what enables us to build prosperity in Sweden. So this was in a discussion about feminist foreign policy and how important it is. That sounds good, of course, but what does the feminist foreign policy mean for the Minister? Is it so that Ann Linde can clearly say that Iran is a rock-hard Islamic dictatorship that consistently oppresses women, minorities, political opponents and dissidents, and can she say clearly that Iran is violating international law? Can the Foreign Minister say that?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-88	Mr President, I would like to It is amazing to tell you what feminist foreign policy and feminist trade policy are. As Trade Minister, when I started working on feminist trade policy, which Anna Hallberg is now continuing with, I asked myself: What is feminist trade policy? Can you see that women and men are treated differently? Yes, there are gender-broken statistics showing that, for example, the export of a silk blouse is subject to six times the customs duty of a man's shirt and that the customs duty on women's sports clothing is 21 percent, while that for men's sports clothing is 7 percent. Customs duties are therefore gender-based. In a trade agreement it is often easy to agree on zero contracts for goods, and in the trade in goods there are mainly men. But women are mostly found in the trade in services, and there it is extremely difficult to get trade agreements. That is why access to the market in services becomes a feminist issue. Market access is a feminist issue. It's trade policy. In the EU internal market, women's entrepreneurship is more difficult for freedom of movement than men's entrepreneurship. On point by point, then, and in the area by field, feminist trade policy is breaking through. As far as Iran is concerned, I have no problem at all in saying that it is not a democracy. Women are really being oppressed there, as I have said. Nevertheless, it would be good if we could sell more trucks to Iran.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-94	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for an interesting speech. In the section of News, the Foreign Minister also mentioned that it is important to make a difference whether to be a political activist or have meetings in Iran. That is why, in general, I have a little question about this visit. It is, of course, important to trade, but the question is who you trade, what you sell to these countries and what the consequences are. Will the trucks we sell to Iran be used when hanging dissidents or when Iran consistently oppresses different groups, including women? I understood what the Minister said in the recital that feminism and the struggle for equality that the government claims to pursue are subordinate to trade issues. Is that right?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-97	Mr President, I would like to No, of course that's not true. But if I go as a woman to a country like Iran to speak to the top leaders, I cannot be an activist and support the women who demand that I do not wear a headcloth. If I'm gonna meet these leaders as a woman, I'm gonna have to wear a headcloth. Otherwise, only male ministers can hold talks with the senior government in Iran, and I am not up for that. We assessed that as a woman minister I could go to Iran if I was prepared to wear a headcloth, and I was willing to pay that price. We handed over a long list of imprisoned union representatives that we wanted to be free. I argued for it with both the President and the Prime Minister. Now we know that two thirds of all these union representatives are free. I am prepared to pay the price and wear a headcloth if it produces such results.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-99	Mr President, I would like to I welcome Ann Linde's first foreign policy declaration. I also welcome the announcement of a new Arctic strategy, because it is important. I hope that it will meet both the security policy challenges and the challenges facing the climate and the sea. I also welcome the clear condemnation of Iran's shooting of the civilian aircraft when 17 Swedes were killed. An independent investigation into this is important. Mr President, I would like to However, I am one of the tendencies towards a return to some neutrality in the geopolitical world we are now living. I would have welcomed the clarity of the OSSE Presidency. The European security regime has been eroded if it is even alive. It has collapsed with Russia's military action to change Europe's borders, but also with regard to the issue of human rights, which is part of the OSSE. It is about Russia's abuse of journalists and the murder of LGBT people in Chechnya – this without access to justice. Against this background, it would have been useful if the Minister for Foreign Affairs had been clear in these areas in view of Sweden's forthcoming mandate as Chairman of the OSSE. How does the Minister want Sweden to address these violations of the security regime and human rights as the country holding the presidency?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-102	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren! I fully agree that the European security regime is under attack and erodes. Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea is one of the biggest crimes ever committed against the European security regime. It is therefore important that, when we take over the OSSE Presidency, we safeguard the European security regime and point out when there are violations of it. I am a little concerned that some EU Member States are talking about a new European security architecture. I do not think it benefits Sweden, which is a military non-aligned country. We've seen an escalation of Russian activity in our neighborhood. A new security architecture does not benefit us, quite the contrary. One of our most important issues in the OSSE is therefore to safeguard the European security regime. We will now, in dialogue with the Riksdag, write a presidency programme for how Sweden can strengthen this in various ways with its OSCE membership.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-105	Mr President, I would like to We look forward to being part of that process. It is, of course, important that Sweden does not back away from speaking plain language because of a forthcoming Presidency. We have called for Magnitsky sanctions as a way of dealing with human rights abuses when there is no access to justice in Russia. We hope that it will be a way forward for the EU, but we also welcome a Nordic consensus on introducing these sanctions. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is prepared to pursue these issues. Mr President, I would like to Not all consular matters are the same. The Minister mentions consular matters, but it is important to indicate clearly when the free speech is imprisoned. When journalists and writers who have received the Tucholsky Prize in Sweden are imprisoned in Eritrea and China, i.e. Dawit Isaak and Gui Minhai, it is important to drive democracy issues to address this as a violation of freedom of expression.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-108	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Kerstin Lundgren that we need to be clear on these issues, and I did so in Moscow last week when I met my Russian colleague. As far as Magnitsky sanctions are concerned, Sweden's basic position is that sanctions are most effective when there is broad international support behind them. Sweden does not have its own national sanctions. A few EU Member States have previously known so-called Magnitsky laws at national level, but these are very different. The government has not taken a position on any alternative. Instead, the full focus is on discussions within the EU on possible human rights sanctions within the framework of the common foreign and security policy, not on national sanctions. The EU Member States are working actively and actively with a view to advancing the debate.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-111	Mr President, I would like to After Turkey invaded northeastern Syria, the Left Party, together with the Liberals, got the government to push the issue of an arms embargo on Turkey. Clear condemnations from all parliamentary parties and the EU as well as the Foreign Minister's statements that Turkey violated international law led the ISP authority to react and stop Swedish arms exports completely. Now that it has proved possible to stop arms exports to a country such as Turkey, which commits crimes of international law and gross violations of human rights, it should also be possible to stop arms exports to countries doing the same thing. The Saudi-led coalition in Yemen consists of eight countries under the leadership of Saudi Arabia. The war in Yemen has been going on for almost five years, and the fighting has resulted in one of the worst ongoing humanitarian disasters in the world right now. Over 24 million people need humanitarian aid, millions of people are at risk of dying of starvation and 85 000 children have already died of starvation. While the war has been going on, Sweden has exported war material to six countries in the Saudi-led coalition. All six are authoritarian states that violate human rights and participate in armed conflict. All the criteria for refusing to buy Swedish armaments are thus met, but despite this, arms exports are ongoing. Between 2015 and 2018, SEK 716 million was exported. Big business in the 20-billion-dollar class is also underway. In 2018, EU countries exported arms to the Saudi-led coalition for an incredible EUR 44 billion. The crimes of international law in Yemen are well documented and extensive. It is therefore reasonable to pursue the demand for an arms embargo against the Saudi-led coalition at EU level. Arms exports are not consistent with the government's feminist foreign policy. Stopping arms exports to the Saudi-led coalition is also included in the January parties' agreement.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-116	Mr President, I would like to The fact that we even allow the production and export of weapons is ultimately about Sweden's national security and defence capabilities and about our military freedom of alliance. The aim is to maintain these national interests. Exports are needed to maintain a strong and competitive level of technology and the skills required to maintain and maintain the Swedish Armed Forces' equipment system. This means that we must be credible as trading partners. This credibility is important, in fact absolutely crucial, for us to continue to be non-aligned. We have chosen to combine this with one of the world's most stringent regulations for export control, on which there is a broad political consensus here in Parliament. For a number of years, no new export deals to Saudi Arabia or the United Arab Emirates have been allowed. As Foreign Minister, of course, I support the very strict regulations and political agreements that exist.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-118	Mr President, I would like to I note that we did not receive an answer if the government intends to push the issue of an EU embargo against the Saudi-led coalition. Last autumn, Saab received permission for another sale of the Globaleye radar and combat management system to the United Arab Emirates. It is about exports for SEK 20 billion. It is the predecessor Erieye who is used to maintain the blockade against Yemen. There are opportunities in the Swedish regulations to back up the band, say no and withdraw approved arms deals. The brutal war going on in Yemen should be sufficient evidence for the Foreign Minister. I wonder: Is the Foreign Minister prepared to stop the deal with Globaleye? The difference between exports to Turkey and exports to Saudi Arabia is the money. Turkey ended up in 18th place in 2018 in the list of countries to which arms exports are most important. Four out of five countries in the Saudi-led coalition to which the EU is exporting are on the top list. The money controls Swedish arms exports, not humanism or the pursuit of peace, justice and an equal world. Where is the feminist in this foreign policy?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-121	Mr President, I would like to It is not money that governs Swedish arms exports, but it is our national security interest that is the main, combined with one of the most stringent regulations in the world. As regards subsequent deliveries, which Håkan Svenneling talked about, the parliamentary KEX investigation, which was endorsed by all parliamentary parties except the Left and the Swedish Democrats, concluded, that there is still a need for rules that provide security of supply to countries that buy armaments from Sweden. It is an important principle for Sweden's international confidence as a trading partner. In the Swedish export controls, which were also decided by all parliamentary parties except the Left and the Swedish Democrats when the regulations were tightened, it is stated as a starting point that subsequent deliveries should be allowed unless unconditional obstacles exist. This does not mean that such deliveries are automatically accepted, but ISP always tests subsequent deliveries on a case-by-case basis.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-124	Mr President, I would like to In the foreign policy tiny pan that Ann Linde has just served there are also some pieces about the Middle East. The government is concerned about a good relationship with both Israel and Palestine, it says. But we know what it looks like. In the Palestinian territories, contacts with Fatah, the dear sister party of the Social Democrats, are flourishing, while bilateral relations with Israel are at the bottom. Throughout her time at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Margot Wallström was the only 28 foreign ministers of the EU countries who were not welcome to visit the only democracy in the Middle East. When Ann Linde took office in September, there were many of us who hoped that the Minister would contribute to a balanced attitude towards Israel and a new start in relations. Unfortunately, we have not seen any of this. Instead, Ann Linde has made it clear that no change whatsoever to the government's Middle East policy is at issue.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-128	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. It is important for Sweden to have good relations with both Israel and Palestine. I work for this, and not least the Prime Minister works for this. As Minister of Commerce, I visited Israel and the country's Minister of Innovation. I find it very strange not to have an exchange at Foreign Minister level just because there are different views on politics. I hope that will change after the elections in Israel. We have recognised Palestine, which I fully support, and we want a two-state solution based on the principles of international law, which allows Israel and Palestine to live within safe and recognised borders and which takes into account the needs of both parties – a negotiated solution in which not only one party but both parties are involved. I cannot see that this is any reason not to have an exchange at Foreign Minister level as well. Then it is important to highlight our work against anti-Semitism. It is fundamental, and there we have, as I mentioned in the declaration, the Prime Minister's invitation to a major conference on the remembrance of the Holocaust, to be held in Malmö in October. I think this shows that we are taking this problem very seriously. I cannot say that not being able to criticise each other as governments and demanding, for example, the withdrawal of recognition of Palestine should be the basis for a relationship of trust.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-134	Mr President, I would like to The work against anti-Semitism is extremely important, but here we are talking about bilateral relations between Sweden and Israel. To rebuild these relationships, Ann Linde, requires an understanding of what has caused the problems. There is also a need for a will for self-assessment in relation to what has not worked. I miss this in the foreign minister's response and in the foreign declaration. Missing also makes a basic strategy for how to work with improved relationships. In fact, the Foreign Minister is empty-handed on this issue. I was in Israel in December and met both the leadership of Likud and the leadership of Blue and White, the great opposition party. It is sad to note that mistrust of the Swedish government is in the depths of urgency in both political camps in Israel. Words will not be enough to restore relationships. Is the Minister prepared to take steps to ensure that we have good relations with Israel?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-137	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I am prepared for talks with the new Israeli Government and the new Israeli Foreign Minister immediately when they take office. But it takes two parties to dance tango. If only Sweden wishes to improve relations, it will not be much of that. If we are asked to withdraw our recognition of Palestine, which is the basis of the strained relationship, it will not happen. It will not be better if we continue to build on the false images of what Sweden stands for, such as that we do not care about Israel's security interests and that Israel's right to exist is called into question in Sweden. None of it's true. I had hoped that when he visited one side of Israel's political life, Lars Adaktusson could contribute to improved relations instead of helping to make it harder for Sweden to have a good relationship with Israel.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-139	Mr President, I would like to Turkey is engaged in an attack war in Syria. It supports jihadists. You drive out the Kurds. Even Kurdish cities inside Turkey are being bombed with heavy artillery. At the moment, there is a legal process in Turkey which attempts to close four political parties simply because they have the name Kurdistan in their party names. Selahattin Demirtaş, leader of the great party HDP, has been imprisoned since 2016. A number of Kurdish parliamentarians are in prison. Tens of mayors have been deposed. Freedom of expression is strangled. Tens of thousands of civil servants have been blacklisted. The country is the world record holder in imprisoning journalists. The extent of these abuses is great. It is so great and brutal abuse that Sweden and the European Union must act. Now the EU has imposed sanctions against Turkey drilling for oil and gas in the Mediterranean. That's good. And thanks to pressure from the Left Party and Liberals, Sweden stopped arms exports to Turkey earlier. That too is positive. But why does Ann Linde and Sweden not take the initiative to introduce EU-level human rights sanctions against Turkey and list the regime's leaders, who are responsible for the massive abuses that continue continuously, day after day and year after year, right in front of our eyes?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-141	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Fredrik Malm for raising this important issue, particularly with regard to the problems to which the Kurds have been subjected in Turkey. The fact that Mr Demirtaş has been imprisoned for several years and that his female party leader is also imprisoned is totally unacceptable, as we have repeatedly pointed out on behalf of Sweden and the European Union for Turkey. The imprisonment of journalists and human rights activists in Turkey has also been mentioned and condemned on several occasions. The same is true of the Turkish military offensive on Syrian territory. In what way, then, should one be most active and effective in getting Turkey to change its mind on these issues? I agree that there is something we can discuss. With regard to an arms embargo to stop the military offensive, we were in complete agreement. We did not get it through fully in the EU, even though I, with the support of Parliament, ran it in the EU. But we did get much sharper texts against arms exports by the EU in all countries and a group that would control this. I agree with Fredrik Malm's criticism, but I do not fully agree with what is the most effective way to change Turkey's mind on these issues.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-144	Mr President, I would like to In the foreign declaration, there is a slight retrospect that we have withdrawn various types of authorisations for the export of armaments, but otherwise there is only one sentence about Turkey: Yes, the European Union has proven to have cooperation with Turkey on migrants. This means, in practice, that Turkey is blackmailing the European Union. As far as the critical dialogue is concerned, my questions are: Is it enough? Does Sweden believe that Recep Tayyip Erdo中an is listening to our views in this critical dialogue? Does it feel that things have improved? I am surprised that this is so extremely thin and weak in the foreign declaration. Is this the only thing the Swedish government has to come up with against a state that is committing such massive abuse?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-146	Mr President, I would like to It is very important that we have both criticism and cooperation with Turkey. Turkey is a large and very important country. It is important to be very clear in the criticism, but also to cooperate when we can. There are currently no discussions on possible future membership of the EU. It's been frozen for years. On the other hand, we have positive cooperation on migrants. I do not think it is right to say that Turkey is blackmailing us here. Is it something that Turkey has actually done well is to take care of the 4 million migrants that we in Europe do not take care of? That is why we support NGOs and individual activities aimed at ensuring that all these refugees have a dignified life. Those refugees should not have to pay the price for our criticism of Turkey in other areas.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-148	Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of State! Dawit Isaak and Gui Minhai are two people with Swedish citizenship who are punished by regimes for their obvious right to write and publish freely. The Chinese Embassy in Stockholm announces that there should be less talk about publisher Gui Minhai. That is precisely why, Mr President, we are going to talk more about Gui Minhai – not just because we are showing that we are not bowing to China's dictates and not just because we have to resist all over the free world when this kind of trend can be noted, which is the latest outcome against the Danish Jyllands-Post, but because we are always standing up for the free word. A better place to use than the speaker's chair in the Swedish Parliament is not for a Member of Parliament. Therefore, the names should be mentioned, the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Dawit Isaak and Gui Minhai. Mr President, I would like to Sweden and Europe are faced with major decisions. How we together choose to meet these will shape our future position in a changing world. Our capacity for leadership, rooted in the values of human rights, the principles of the rule of law, democracy and international law that have built our continent strong, is now being put to the test. In order to safeguard our freedom and prosperity, it is crucial that Sweden and Europe continue to be able to inspire and that we are able to set standards and standards globally. This must be our mission for our foreign policy. This must be the Swedish line. Mr President, I would like to Climate change poses a security policy threat. I am writing today with my party leader Ulf Kristersson about the challenges we are now facing in the Arctic. We can see how foreign powers, as a result of the melting of ice, identify new economic and military interests in our neighbourhood. It can be argued that things are hot in the Arctic, and unfortunately on many levels. The government will develop a new Arctic strategy. In this case, we must also take account of the toughness of security. We must work together with others to create the conditions for cooperation and caution in the environmentally sensitive Arctic when it comes to maritime routes and the management of natural resources from or under the sea. Mr President, I would like to With Brexit, we have missed out on an important partner in the European Union. While we now need to strengthen our strategic alliance building with other like-minded Member States, we must also ensure continued strong links between London and Brussels and between London and Stockholm. Brexit also means that Sweden must strengthen its commitment to the security structures in which the UK continues to be an active party. A greater Swedish commitment to NATO is an important investment in safeguarding Europe's security and stability. The inter-Atlantic ties must be strengthened and not weakened. Europe and North America share a broad community of values. The United States' contribution to Europe's unification after the Declare A Europe has been fully and freely shaped for the modern history of our continent. But it is clear that we in Europe must take greater responsibility for the security and development of our own region and our neighbourhood. This is what Chancellor Merkel and President Macron point out. Mr President, I would like to Russia is threatening Europe both here in the Baltic Sea region and in the Black Sea region and is deeply involved in the killing in Syria and the maintenance of the Al-Assad regime in Damascus. In this context, Swedish support to Georgia and Ukraine is important for combating Russian destabilisation. As a result of the killing and fighting in eastern Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea, the whole of Europe's battle is currently being fought by Ukrainians. Sweden will work to maintain EU sanctions against Russia. Magnitsky legislation must be put in place, no matter what name it now dares to give such a regulatory framework within the EU. A concerted European response is crucial. Russia has violated the European security regime on the inviolability of borders. The bilateral relationship between Sweden and Russia will only improve on the day when Russia re-establishes its policy. Meanwhile, Sweden will support the courageous Russians who are working against the Kremlin's violence and oppression. There is a European Russia outside the walls of the Kremlin. It is a civil society committed to a better environment, to the rights and equal value of children, women and LGBT people, to freedom and justice and to a Europe together. Mr President, I would like to 2019 was the year when Europe came to re-evaluate China in the same way that we re-evaluated Russia in 2014. Steps towards greater economic transparency laid the foundations for a path towards today's position as an economic power. If Russia poses the military threat, China, in addition to the humanitarian, is also the economic and technological threat. With the help of modern surveillance technology, China is now moving in the direction of a high-tech security state. It is not a state that puts the security of its citizens first, but a state that puts the security of power and of the party first. It is important to be clear in the criticism of the detention camps in Xinjiang and that Taiwan is excluded from the World Health Organisation despite the fact that Taipei should be an important partner in the fight against the Corona virus. All this makes clear Beijing's line that the survival of the Communist Party is superior to everything else, including the welfare and woe of its citizens. A common European approach is needed towards China, where we stand up for the rule-based trading system and a two-way free trade. It is also a position that is clear about Hong Kong's status and the right to democracy and transparency. There has sometimes been an over-reliance that improved economic standards with some kind of automaticity lead to democracy. Unfortunately, this does not always seem to be the case. Another trend can now be discerned. When the lie becomes over-explicit, the citizens mark and react. This is now happening in China after the authorities' initial handling of the coronoa virus and silence those who dared to warn on time. In Iran, the people are justifiably asking themselves what more one is capable of when a regime can lie about a shot-down passenger plane. What is happening in these two countries can be their own Chernobyl for our time. Mr President, I would like to Swedish aid should play a central role in promoting our values and interests. Swedish involvement in the world must be seen as a whole. It is about peace-keeping and state-building, from promoting economic development and trade to health and education. Agenda 2030 clarifies the need for a policy for high growth. It should be at least 7% in the poorest countries to achieve the poverty reduction targets. The presence of institutions plays a central role, not least in the ability of states to combat corruption. There is reason to review and reconsider and have the courage to also have a critical look at aid and how it is used. Although most parties in the Riksdag choose to criticize us as soon as possible for raising the question, it seems popular interest that someone for reasoning about the aid is great out there. We wish to move away from having, as we have done today, a target for spending on aid. Aid is intended to combat poverty and oppression. These are central Swedish interests. But we also need to focus even more on humanitarian and emergency aid. The Moderates will put long-termness and efficiency first. Mr President, I would like to Time allows nothing but a motorcycle ride through the world atlas. But here's what the Moderates' priorities look like. This is what our Swedish line looks like.
i-GDTKdvFbxXLDDZXJPLBusn	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hans Wallmark, for the post! There is a lot I agree with in the post. This applies not least to the view of Russia. We must have a tough attitude towards Russia because it is not least a military threat to Sweden. That is precisely why I have a little question about something that Mr Wallmark said in his speech on Magnitsky sanctions. There are two parties here in the Swedish Parliament who have exercised to introduce Magnitsky sanctions in Sweden. It is the Swedish Democrats and the Center Party. The Centre Party has now, of course, refused to sign up for a joint reservation in the previous year, but it will have to stand for them. On the other hand, the Moderates were content with a separate opinion. Mr President, I would like to For this reason, I would like to ask Mr Wallmark a question. If one now mentions this as an important issue, why could one not join forces with the Swedish Democrats or the Center Party to bring about a Magnitsky law in Sweden?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-171	Mr President, I would like to The question of the Swedish Democrats reveals the blind eye of the Swedish Democrats. What we have said on the part of the Moderates has always been that it is preferable for several countries to do so at the same time and in a coordinated way than for one country to do so. The strength is to do it together, the weakness is to do it alone. That is why we have hoped, even if we were suspicious that the process within the European Union would take time. But now it turns out that things are starting to happen within Europe. Maybe that's where the blind spot of the Swedish Democrats is. This thing about Europe is a bit difficult and complicated. I think that if a sanctioning regime is now emerging within Europe and the EU with 27 states behind it, together with those countries that have already developed various forms of Magnitsky legislation, that is a good thing. It's a mark. Then it will not be called Magnitsky legislation, but a sanctioning regime for human rights. That's what I was referring to. Of course, it may seem a strength to have the name that we all know what it means. But it is also a strength that you do not lock yourself up in a particular country, a regime, a way of violating human rights. Unfortunately, there are more states out there than only Russia that go after their citizens and violate their human rights. I prefer the European road, if it is accessible, rather than us as an individual country. I hope that perhaps this year we can get such a common European sanction legislation in place. It's a force.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-176	Mr President, I would like to Then I can congratulate Mr Wallmark on the fact that, in the motion that we will be discussing later this spring, the Swedish democrats are proposing a common European Magnitsky legislation. That is something we can work for with other countries. There are several countries in the world that have already introduced this. The United States is an example, and so is the United Kingdom and so on. So there are great opportunities for us to be able to agree on this. For this reason, I ask Hans Wallmark the specific question: Is it the case that the Moderates are prepared to sign up for a reservation or to push this through together with the other parties in the Riksdag, not least the Swedish Democrats and hopefully also the Center Party?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-179	Mr President, I would like to We want to see a Magnitsky legislation in place. If it can go through Europe, so that you have 27 states, it is preferable. If it does not happen, we are prepared to look at other things. My party has also exercised or, as it is said, put forward a proposal for a membership of the Nordic Council in which we say that if an EU line cannot be found in the case of a Magnitsky legislation or a sanction regime, we will see if we can do so on a Nordic basis. Mr President, I would like to I would like to return the Swedish democratic kindness and urge the Swedish Democrats to support the moderate proposal in the Nordic Council together with our Nordic sister parties. I also hope that your Nordic sister parties, if you have any, will also be prepared, together with the Swedish Democrats, to support the moderate proposal: unless the EU can come up with a sanctioning regime, we will try to find Nordic coordination in this.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-182	Mr President, I would like to I wasn't going to talk aid to Hans Wallmark, even if I'm in the mood for it. The Moderates and the Left Party have for a long time been the two parties that have been most obvious and consistent in our criticism of China, which Hans Wallmark very well highlighted in his speech. I agree with a lot of things. The Left Party has notified the former Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström of the handling of events at Sheraton. In the Foreign Affairs Committee's report before Christmas, the Left Party and the Moderates were the driving force to bring in more important wordings that sharpened criticism of the dictatorship in China. I also heard the Minister for Foreign Affairs welcoming this. In an article on New Year's Day, your party leader, who like my party leader is very interested in China, suggested setting up a Gui Minhai Commission to investigate what could have been done differently to get him free. The proposal is similar to the proposal made by the Left Party, but also by other parties, to investigate the experience of the Dawit Isaak case. He's been held prisoner in Eritrea for 19 years. Recently, the Left Party and the Moderates have found each other in stopping the chaos privatisation of the Employment Service and getting more money for welfare. Your proposal to establish a Gui Minhai Commission is a very good proposal and one which I and the Left Party support. In October 2015, Swedish publisher Gui Minhai was kidnapped by Chinese agents in his holiday home in Thailand. He then ran a successful book and publishing business in Hong Kong that specialized in what is difficult for the Chinese regime: satir, especially about their privacy. Now Gui Minhai has been in prison for over four years. There are symptoms that he has ALS, and he is in great need of medical care. The Swedish Government has not done enough, as both Hans Wallmark and I have pointed out on several occasions. The tours of former ambassador Anna Lindstedt, who is now charged with crime, raise many questions. So I wonder, Mr Wallmark: should we propose a Gui Minhai Commission in a joint committee initiative? And can you imagine raising the issue of other prisoners of conscience, such as Dawit Isaak?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-189	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Håkan! This embrace came a little suddenly, but it is nevertheless welcome. First of all, it is quite correct, and, Mr President, I also think it is important, what Håkan Svenneling just did, namely to describe the whole case. There are many details and parts that are in themselves and each one of them are serious. They now end with a trial that is about to begin against Sweden's former ambassador in Beijing. But it all stems from the fact that a Swedish citizen – a person who has Swedish citizenship – is kidnapped in Thailand and taken to another country. This happened just over four years ago. Then we have event after event with many strange things. There is also reason to consider whether we have done right or wrong. Has there been a wrong grip? That is why I think the idea of a Commission is important and central. I can understand Håkan Svenneling's point that you can also look at more Swedish citizens who have been captured. This particular case may stand out a little, because it is so exceptional that a Swedish citizen is kidnapped in another country and taken to China. But after this prop, there is reason for us to think about how to proceed and, above all, to reflect with some thought on what the Commission should look like and behave and so on. I am also inclined to be concerned that time is unfortunately on our side. There is nothing to suggest today that it is something that will be made easier for Gui Minhai. I therefore believe that what I did, unlike the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Socialist Government, is now important. I think we need to mention them by name. We must make it clear to these regimes that we are talking about Dawit Isaak and Gui Minhai from the Parliament's pulpit, because it is about our citizens.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-196	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Hans Wallmark. I think it would be good if the Left Party and the Moderates could cooperate with each other when it comes to China. Swedish foreign policy is stronger when we show that there is broad support in the Swedish parliament. Before Christmas we showed that unity, and I think we can do it again with China. As opposition parties, we have an important role to play in making the government accountable for errors and shortcomings. That is why it is important that we have notified the former Foreign Minister of the KU. The Moderates' proposal to set up a Commission is also important to push the government forward. We want to see the difference; we want to see change on the ground. I believe, just as Hans Wallmark is concerned, that it is important not to forget the other Swedish prisoners of conscience, like Dawit Isaak and many others. If we make them visible in Swedish foreign policy, we also keep up the pressure for their freedom. It is crucial that, for our credibility, we put human rights above economic interests. Otherwise, Sweden's voice risks becoming silent very quickly.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-200	Mr President, I would like to We note that new patterns have developed in the current parliamentary situation over the past year. Earlier in the debate, reference has been made to what the Liberals and the Left Party have done with regard to Turkey's wording. We in the Committee on Foreign Affairs know what joint work we did to fundamentally improve the letter the government had presented on China. I believe that all serious assessors find the report of the Foreign Affairs Committee on the Government's China Letter more high-quality and high-octane than the letter put on Parliament's table by the government. It was a work done with another party. That is why, Mr President, without running ahead, I think that the Left Party is offering today in this House absolutely important to consider and possibly find each other in.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-203	Mr President, I would like to Hans Wallmark is a good colleague and friend in the parliamentary work. Our respective parties are very close and will hopefully form the next government together. At the same time, if you look carefully, there are some differences in certain issues. Right now, one of them is about how the government should act in relation to China's Sweden Ambassador. As you know, he has spoken out threateningly against the country's Minister of Culture. He has subjected Swedish free media to aggressive pressure and tried to restrict Swedish freedom of expression. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that confidence in the Chinese ambassador is exhausted and that he should be declared undesirable in Sweden. The Moderates have come to a different conclusion. In a statement in SVT in December, Hans Wallmark says that the ambassador should be allowed to remain on the basis of the risk of countermeasures by China. But where, Hans Wallmark, do we end up if political decisions in Beijing are allowed to influence Swedish decisions in foreign policy?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-207	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying that Lars Adaktusson is right on one point: we are very good friends and colleagues. But Lars Adaktusson risks making it easy to do what is right in his world. But that is not necessarily the case. I think the vast majority of Swedes are upset about how the Chinese ambassador acts in Sweden. They want to see some kind of action and a reaction. Then naturally comes the thought: Throw him out! The problem then is that he does not engage in free-riding. He represents the Chinese regime, just as it may be assumed that the ambassadors of the very many countries represent the very government and state they represent, whether we are talking about Stockholm or about Beijing. Nor is it a unique act, even though he must be said to belong to the front division of this. We see the same actions in Denmark and France. Therefore, I do not believe in throwing out from Sweden alone, with the risk that we will get reprisals against us by throwing out our staff as well – not because they have done something but as a purely punitive measure. I am also a little surprised that a former MEP, Mr President, does not quite naturally say that the obvious track here is European coordination. We should act together. More countries should mark. That is also how China acts, because they want to split up. Let us therefore show unity and commitment! What Lars Adaktusson should demand is that the Swedish Government, together with the other EU governments, begin to pursue sanctions against China because of their behaviour.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-213	Mr President, I would like to That is absolutely right, and so have we. We have been very clear that China's policy must be anchored and coordinated in a completely different and more effective way than it is today. We ourselves are unable to influence the Chinese power. However, there is a limit to how the Chinese regime, with all its influence, can behave in our country. We from my party believe that that line has been crossed with regard to the Chinese ambassador. It is only to be noted that the Moderates have a slightly greater patience here. One might ask, Hans Wallmark: If it had been the Russian ambassador who had acted in this way, would he also have been allowed to stay in Sweden, according to the Moderates?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-216	Mr President, I would like to If you go to the Security Service's annual reports, you can see that there are three countries that are repeatedly identified for activities in our country. It is the Russian Federation, it is the People's Republic of China and it is Iran. However, we have not demanded the expulsion of any of their ambassadors. It is not because we feel that their conduct is correct or dignified; it may also be out of concern for the interests of our own country. Again, the easy thing doesn't always have to be the right thing to do. I think we need to think this through. If you take this measure and get a countermeasure in the form of our presence in China being affected, how does it affect Gui Minhai? How does it affect Swedish companies and interests? I would ask my good friend, Lars Adaktusson, to consider two things: the EU line and the easy way is not always the right one.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-219	Mr President, I would like to Swedish aid is among the best in the world. Independent evaluations show that our money hits right and helps some of the most vulnerable in the world. When developments in many directions go in the wrong direction and democracy backs in more places than where it goes forward, every effort for peace, democracy, development and human rights counts. Sweden's aid is crucial to many of the world's women and represents stability in important international institutions. I and many Swedes with me are very proud of the Swedish aid. The Green Party will always defend the 1% target, which the Moderates in their last budget chose to depart. To cut back on aid is nothing more than to cut back on the ambitions for a better world. Responding to Moderate policies in this area would mean a reduction in aid of about $7 billion per year. It is money that today goes towards poverty reduction, development efforts, women's rights, international climate action, strengthening international institutions and much more. What work within Swedish aid worth SEK 7 billion that the Moderates want to cut back on, we have not yet been able to get an answer to. However, wherever it would be cut, the consequences would be enormous. My question to the Moderates and Hans Wallmark is simple: What part of the ambitions for a better world is what you want to reduce?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-224	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Janine Alm Ericson, for the question! You can trust the Green Party here. It is good that we should make it clear that there are the kinds of differences in Swedish development policy that are now being expressed. That is quite right: the Green Party is in favour of an expenditure target in which it is superior exactly how much money is calculated as a percentage we are going to pay out year after year. We're not the Moderates. We want a longer-term budget that focuses on results and efficiency rather than on achieving exactly 1.0% of GDP. It is possible – I am quite convinced of that, Mr President – that the Green Party's line is strongly supported by the Green Party. I am quite convinced, Mr President, that the Moderates' proposal to leave the expenditure target to go towards performance and efficiency targets has much greater support for the Swedish people. But it is good to be able to choose between a line represented by the Green Party and one represented by the Moderates. Then let me just point this out: today's News had some day ago a chronicle on the leadership side where it said that it is not help for self-help if it never ends. For some countries, aid from different countries accounts for about half of the country's GDP – despite 40 years of aid, Mr President. We must then ask ourselves what is effective, what is in the interests of the various countries and what is in the interests of taxpayers. That is why we are offering a policy away from a strict spending target to a performance target.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-228	Mr President, I would like to I am glad that Mr Wallmark thinks it is possible to trust the Green Party on these issues, because you can certainly do that – this is perhaps a little different from the Left Party, which instead chose to highlight its new found bromance. Of course, having a spending target is not the matter in itself. We do not see the 1% target as important in itself. The aim is to create stability and predictability in Sweden's international commitments, whether in terms of bilateral assistance or support to the major institutions. There are tremendous needs in the world. I wish they were on their way to decline. I notice, however, that the answer is missing from Mr Wallmark. He does not address the parts in which the Moderates' ambitions should be reduced.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-231	Mr President, I would like to Since the Moderates launched their idea that we should leave the expenditure target and instead have a performance and efficiency goal, the critics who have been heard, which is very interesting, have mostly focused on the protection of 1.0 percent of the bni. Very few of the critics participate in the conversation I think the Swedish people want us to have: What should the content look like? What is the result? What's fair? Is it reasonable to give aid to a country for 40 years without having visible effects on its GDP development? It is also interesting, Mr President, that the Green Party does not at all touch upon what I touched upon in my speech on Agenda 2030, which we all cover anyway. There it is clear that one basis for us to be able to help countries out of poverty is their own growth, their own opportunity to grow. We should focus on this to a greater extent, Mr President.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-233	Mr President, I would like to This year's foreign policy statement was, like last year, largely marked by the government's announced democracy offensive. Many of the speeches then were about the importance of standing up for Western democracy. It was a laudable initiative that deserves all respect. But somewhere it still felt false. Once again, it felt like hollow placard politics. Now, a year later, we see, unfortunately, that the negative developments in the world have continued. I cannot say that I would give the government a particularly good rating for the so-called democracy offensive. Let me sum up some of what we've seen during the year. Not long after last year's foreign policy debate, Sweden's Foreign Trade Minister, our current Foreign Minister, Ann Linde, took part in the celebration of the outcome of the revolution that for 40 years marked Iran through extensive repression, torture, mass murder and supervision of dissidents. Among other things, relatives and friends of Swedish citizens have been murdered. Ann Linde celebrated 40 years of violations of women's fundamental rights and rights and 40 years of rock-hard Islamic dictatorship. The inappropriate participation is, to say the least, an affront to exiles in Sweden but also to everyone in Iran who dreams of living in a free, open and equal society. To this day, we are seeing extensive demonstrations in Iran. We see people who are prepared to sacrifice everything for their basic human rights and freedoms. At the same time, our government hardly utters a word in support of them. Nor do we see the smoke of much support for the courageous women who are today defying the veil in Iran. Mr President, I would like to The democratic rating of the government in this regard is not approved. In the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe we were able to see European politicians who, after an extremely emotional debate, decided to remove all obstacles to the Russian Parliament to resume its work within the organisation. The sanctions against the Russian delegation were imposed as a result of the illegal invasion and occupation of Ukraine. It was sanctions that were initially supported by a united Swedish delegation. The Swedish delegation was still united a year ago and was keen not to ease sanctions against Russia after all the violations of human rights and freedoms. But suddenly something happened. The Social Democrats, as the only Swedish party in the Assembly, chose to legitimise Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea by supporting the re-entry of the authoritarian and anti-democratic country into the Council of Europe. The historical betrayal of the Social Democrats showed that the former fine rhetoric directed against Russia's aggression and widespread violation of international law means nothing. Mr President, I would like to Democracy testimonial to government party S: not approved. In the Swedish Parliament's EU Board, the government, together with seven out of eight parties in the Riksdag, voted in favour of Council conclusions which indirectly express support for the so-called Syrian national army. In spite of this, it is a rebel alliance ruled by Turkey, which can be described as being made up of tough Islamists with the aim of, among other things, combating the secular and pro-democracy group of Syrian democratic forces. It was, of course, ignorance that led to only the SD voting against this Council conclusion. However, it is an enormous betrayal, not least because the same troops are responsible for the terrible attack on the peaceful and stable Kurdish regime in Rojava in north-east Syria. We had to see violations of international law, the use of chemical weapons and the slaughter of those at the forefront of the Islamic state, the absolutely worst terrorist organisation of our time. Mr President, I would like to Democracy testimonial to the government: not approved. Since the entry into power of the Social Democratic Party, the Swedish Government, headed by the Prime Minister, has repeatedly demonstrated its support for the undemocratic Palestinian Authority. That is where around 800 million tax dollars are sent each year. This is done despite the fact that, through financial compensation, they fund terrorists who have murdered Jews and whose compensation will be higher if the convicted terrorist has committed a more serious crime. The Ministries' websites still contain PLO documents on how to destroy the Jewish state, and in schools and media they incite and spread anti-Semitism. Just a few days ago, we could see the Swedish Foreign Minister suggesting that terrorist wages could be seen as social benefits. The government is much more interested in supporting the undemocratic power of the PLO than the democratic power of Israel. There are many examples, including the support shown to Unrwa and the recurrent anti-Semitic scandals with which S-representatives are found. Mr President, I would like to Democracy testimonial to the government: not approved. Many have strongly and rightly reacted to how the Chinese Embassy has tried to influence Swedish media and decision-makers through threats. We have seen a diplomatic mismanagement that does not belong in our open society. The act testifies to a totalitarian approach without belief in fundamental rights and freedoms. In Sweden, everyone should feel different, meet who we want and make their own decisions. It is gratifying that the government has acted forcefully following Chinese pressure. But the threat is greater than individual diplomatic transgressions. The war of the future is being fought not only by weapons, but by influence, economically and technologically. At this moment we see how the government has opened up for the Chinese company Huawei to expand in Sweden. They are prepared to open the doors of the entire Swedish IT infrastructure to a company whose name literally means to China and which has well-documented links to Chinese intelligence. I would like to take this opportunity to remind the government of the following: without security, no democracy. Security is the very foundation for democracy to work. Mr President, I would like to The government might have been able to get a G in a grade in view of the behaviour towards the Chinese Embassy, but because of the rest, it is still not approved for the government's democratic work. I can line up more examples: Support for the undemocratic Muslim Brotherhood, including through assistance to Islamic Relief The lack of support for Kurds and other minorities in Turkey, as Fredrik Malm well explained. How to relate to various authoritarian regimes in Africa and Latin America and so on. The bottom line is this: the government's foreign policy is not approved. Sweden deserves a conservative government.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-254	Mr President, I would like to I listened with interest to Markus Wiechel to hear how he would land his review of democracy issues. I thought in my quiet mind: will he now stand up for liberal democracy? Will the Swedish Democrats acknowledge that Viktor Orbán and all the forces talking about the illiberal democracy that opponents are wrong? Will Markus Wiechel say that in the election between Viktor Orbán and President Macron it is easy to elect President Macron? Mr President, I would like to However, in that part of the democratic process, Swedish democrat Markus Wiechel was very quiet. I would therefore like to hear his assessment of his own democratic credentials in that part. I'd like to give you no approval.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-256	Mr President, I would like to I believe that Kerstin Lundgren, as a centre party, should be careful to talk about democracy, not least in view of the debate in the European Parliament. It has even announced support for supranationality at a level with which we do not feel comfortable at all. It wants to take away the decision-making rights of Member States. Contrary to what the Center Party wants to call local politics, it wants to take more power from the people and give it to bureaucrats in Brussels. It's a big problem. Then I am the first to say that developments in Hungary under Viktor Orbán are not flawless. There are shortcomings there, but in Hungary they also have a tradition of free media. The main media are oppositional. There is a culture that differs from Sweden, not least in view of their past with the Soviet Union and so on. I think we should have some respect for differences between countries. Of course, not everything is perfect in Hungary.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-258	Mr President, I would like to That's right, isn't it? Everything is not perfect in Hungary. The situation is that one of the universities that has meant the most for the democratic development of our eastern neighbourhood is being shut down. You take a hard shot at free media. Attempts are being made to strangle the potential of civil society. This is even true of freedom of religion. During my time in the Council of Europe, I had reason to criticise Hungary and its actions. However, according to the Swedish Democrats, everything is not perfect. That's what it sounds like when you take big words about democracy and you judge Orbán and Hungary's actions as not quite perfect. Not approved, Mr President.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-260	Mr President, I would like to I find it a little strange that as a Swedish democrat I should be accountable for a policy conducted in a completely different country. I have not mentioned Hungary at all or in any way spoken in favour of the closure of a university by Orbán. It will be very strange when Kerstin Lundgren in some way tries to put responsibility on me for the development there. I am, of course, criticising negative developments in democracy everywhere in the world. But the fact is, I'm trying to focus on the most important thing right now. There we have threats in the form of Russia, for example, and we have threats in the Middle East. There are several different countries where developments are significantly worse than in Hungary. I'm focusing on it. Kerstin Lundgren is happy to focus on Hungary and Viktor Orbán, but it is getting a little nagging when it comes up in debate after debate where we will be accountable for some misdemeanours that are being made there. Aren't there more important questions, Kerstin Lundgren?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-262	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are strongly opposed to NATO, despite growing security concerns in our neighbourhood. Russia has developed even more authoritarianally under Vladimir Putin with strong military armaments combined with direct aggression and clear violations of international law. This leads to increased instability. Violations of Swedish territory both in the air and at sea are increasing. This is done in combination with the annexation of Crimea, the war in eastern Ukraine and the active Russian participation on President Asad's side in Syria. This, of course, gives cause for concern. The fact that President Putin is moving borders in Europe on his own and by force and that Russia is directly supporting one of the most barbaric regimes of our time is now a reality. This is a reality that we in Sweden too must relate to. I would like to ask how it is that, in this difficult security situation, the Swedish democrats completely exclude Swedish NATO membership.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-265	Mr President, I would like to I want to be very clear that the Swedish Democrats want good relations with NATO. We are happy to cooperate with NATO and want to try to interact with those countries that are strategically close to us, not least those in our neighbourhood. We want defence cooperation with Finland. We want to arm the Swedish defence more than any other party in the Riksdag. This is something we have stood for throughout our time here in the Swedish Parliament. NATO membership is not without problems. That would mean some commitments, as everyone else knows. This would mean that we might also find ourselves in a position that is not favourable if we look at Sweden's geographical location. You have to keep thinking long-term. We see problems with what NATO membership would bring. The commanders of the two largest armies in NATO are Donald Trump and Recep Tayyip Erdo中an. We do not know whether it would be easy to cooperate with these people. One example is the situation in Idlib province in Syria where Al-Qaida is currently in control. There Turkey has joined Al Qaeda. They have been attacked by the Syrian army. While carrying out war in another country, Turkey claims that it is self-defense and wants NATO to come and rescue them when fighting on the side of Al-Qaeda. It will be a very complicated situation in a country where we have already seen two NATO countries indirectly war against each other. How do we know that Swedish soldiers will not suffer from such insanity policy if we go into such an alliance?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-270	Mr President, I would like to Markus Wiechel refers to Partnership for Peace and that Sweden cooperates with NATO. However, there is a huge difference between partnership and membership. In a war situation, NATO's resources are used for the countries that are members of the Alliance, not for the partner countries. The mutual defence guarantees provided for in Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty guarantee a Member State which is being attacked by other Member States. This insurance is the result of a full membership.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-273	Mr President, I would like to This shows once again the problem of NATO. For example, as I mentioned in my reply, Turkey is now claiming self-defense, even though they are engaged in war in another country. They are in Syria, fighting with Al-Qaeda and claiming self-defense. Then the United States and other countries will come in and defend Turkish al-Qaeda allies against attacks. It's gonna be very strange. We could end up in a similar situation. It's all about an assessment question about when to get guarantees for self-defense and so on. As I said, the Swedish democrats would like to have good relations with NATO. After all, it is the alliance today that stands more for the values that we believe in. We must continue a good relationship in order to stand up to Russia. The most important thing, however, is a strong Swedish defence.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-276	Mr President, I would like to We are facing a huge challenge in the world in the form of huge flows of refugees. Last year, a person in the world was forced to leave his home every two seconds. Most of the fugitives are IDPs. It's just over 40 million. But tens of millions have fled to another country. Now the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) warns of the huge gap between the urgent need for resettlement – about 1.4 million people today – and those who are actually being resettled. Last year, over 63,000 people received it. This situation triggers irregular migration. It contributes to the worsening of the humanitarian meltdown in the refugee camps. It increases the risk of recruiting child soldiers to various militia groups, different terrorist groups, radicalisation and much more. In short, the ongoing refugee disaster is also a huge security threat. It destabilises entire regions and countries today. Then, Mr President, the Swedish Democrats are basically very restrictive of immigration. We do not want Sweden to receive any quota refugees at all, as I understand it, and I, as a liberal politician, have quite little opportunity to change that attitude of the Swedish Democrats. However, my question is this: why can the Swedish Democrats not act because other countries, which do not take any responsibility at all, should in any case receive some quota refugees? I suppose they should take at least a little international responsibility.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-281	Mr President, I would like to As Fredrik Malm knows, I am a strong supporter of the UN quota refugee system and have been so for a long time. We have stated in the past that this is a form of refugee aid that is actually good and that is needed. Now Sweden has crossed a border where we can no longer do it, and it is boring. One day in the future, I hope that we will be able to resume that work and stand for that policy. I am a Member of Parliament, certainly on the Foreign Affairs Committee, but we are not in the government. As Fredrik Malm knows very well, not least now that you are working with the government, it is the government that owns foreign policy and acts. Of course, if other countries feel that they are up to this commitment, it is only good if they receive quota refugees. It's nothing I don't mind. The question is how I, as an individual Member of Parliament or we as a party, should push for other countries to receive quota refugees. It's going to be a strange question.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-284	Mr President, I would like to With the argument put forward by Markus Wiechel here, we do not need to press other countries at all to comply with human or trade union rights or to have a decent level of society. Then we should not say anything about other countries. It is clear that Markus Wiechel and the Swedish Democrats should be able to have views. In fact, the situation we now have, with the enormous refugee disaster facing the world, we must face together. This also means that pressure on Sweden can be reduced if other countries take greater responsibility. However, every time these questions come up, the Swedish Democrats' spine reflex says that you absolutely should not have any views on other countries that have closed their borders altogether. Shouldn't it be the other way around? Should not the approximately half of the countries of the European Union which do not even have an agreement with the UNHCR at least accept any? It does not threaten the stability of these countries in any way, but it would help to alleviate the distress of the world's refugees.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-287	Mr President, I would like to I must apologise if I have been unclear: I have points of view. I think it is important that countries that have the capacity and the opportunity to receive quota refugees do so. It is clear – absolutely, welcome quota refugees! But it is a very strange question to ask when we discuss a lot of other things too. I apologise if I and the Swedish Democrats have been unclear. In fact, we have mentioned in the past the problem that, for example, Saudi Arabia has not received refugees while Lebanon has received so many. This is an issue that we have discussed and on which I think we have been very clear.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-289	Mr President, I would like to In an unpredictable time, Sweden's foreign policy will aim to strengthen our voice, assert our freedom, safeguard sovereignty, international law and free trade on equal terms and contribute to a sustainable future. The EU is undoubtedly our most important foreign and security policy arena. The EU's common voice must therefore be made stronger and clearer, heard and made a difference in a more multipolar world. Mr President, I would like to The decline of democracy continues. The strong voices for freedom, human rights and independent justice that have been heard on the global stage have lost strength as liberal forces have grown in our democracies as well. Forces that strike with words and laws against minorities, against freedom of expression, media freedom and justice seek to destabilise or erode the strength of our liberal democracy and world order. The democratisation offensive implemented by the government is important and has our support. We need to join the European Union but also with like-minded people and work strategically. For the EU, for example, it may be about shaping new strategic free trade agreements, promoting the Eastern Partnership and securing a living EU perspective for Montenegro and North Macedonia, among others. For us, it is about strengthening the Nordic voice for development and security. Sweden and the EU must work closely with Norway, the United Kingdom and Canada, for example, to strengthen competitiveness and the freedom of global voices. Mr President, I would like to For the Center Party, in the unpredictable time we live in, it is important to seek a common understanding of our security. We value the unity that was achieved in the Defence Committee and want to work for it to continue. We welcome the fact that everyone now notes that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Alone is not strong. We are not neutral, we are members of the European Union. Sweden stands up for a solidarity policy and is prepared to strengthen our own and the common capability. The EU is complementary to NATO. For the Center Party, it is natural that Sweden, like the other EU countries, is a member of NATO. We want to see a Swedish membership, preferably together with Finland. This would facilitate Nordic cooperation, and it will be even more important to us after Britain has left the EU. The transatlantic link remains central to our security in Europe. Mr President, I would like to For the Center Party, international law and international law are fundamental pillars of foreign policy. We can never accept that the Security Council member Russia is moving borders in Europe by military force. This may include the illegal annexation of Crimea, Russian military presence and control of legitimate borders in Eastern Ukraine or military presence in Georgia's territory in the Tschinvali region and Abkhazia to move borders. This must be condemned. Without a change on the ground, no change to the sanctions. Mr President, I would like to China is another member of the Security Council acting in violation of international law. In the South China Sea, you don't give a damn about court decisions. Under the current leadership, it has been made clear that the Communist Party does not accept global rules that do not fit its own goals. China is acting globally across the scale to shape regulatory frameworks that are conducive to the goals. The regime has greatly increased the repression of dissidents and minorities. The detention camps in Xinjiang, where reportedly 1 million Uighurs are to be brainwashed under coercion, are clear proof of the methods. The aggressive view also applies globally. Representatives of China are threatening our free media. They threaten the Swedish PEN, which awards the prize to the publisher and the Swedish citizen Gui Minhai, who has been kidnapped and imprisoned in China. Even government members are threatened. There are many evidences of how China wants to extend its oppression throughout the world. But we do not silence, and we have a united parliament behind our view of the strategy to face China's actions. We support the democratic forces that peacefully stand up for Hong Kong's democracy and freedom within the framework of this country, two systems. We welcome the free elections held in Taiwan. Democracy is a path to success and prosperity. Both Hong Kong and Taiwan have demonstrated this. Nor can we accept, on the basis of international law, the so-called peace plan presented to Israel and Palestine by President Trump. We do not want to see a return to a Yalta order where great powers themselves dictate solutions. This does not lead to lasting peace. We stand up for the conclusions drawn by the EU under Swedish leadership in 2009 and want to see two sovereign states within safe and recognised borders. The consequences for international law would be great if this so-called peace plan were to be implemented. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the prospect of lasting peace and reconciliation in the Middle East looks remote. This may be an inclusive solution for the people of Syria, including Kurds and Christians, as well as the conflict between the regional powers and the proxy wars. Regional solutions are needed for security, respect and tolerance. There is no need for more, but less for weapons of mass destruction in the region. JCPOA must be protected. It also requires responsible state-building in Iraq to stop Daish. Sweden is ready to assist to support the fight against Daish with resources for development and reconstruction. The idea of gratitude also goes to the women and men who are making efforts on our behalf in Iraq, Afghanistan and Mali, among others. Madam President, I would like Diplomacy must take the climate seriously. We see a significant risk landscape developing if we do not achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. New reports warn of increased global risks for all of us, especially the small island states and the low-lying areas. The most vulnerable people and states are first affected by water scarcity, drought, food shortages and excessive heat. But it happens to all of us. Creativity and significant efforts are now needed to achieve a new starting point in the climate work at COP 26 in Glasgow in November. We in Sweden and the European Union, together with the United Kingdom, must take the lead in raising the commitments but also shape our regulatory framework to make it possible. Madam President, I would like The nuclear threat is alive. Over the last decade, Russia has expanded its exercises in a way that will clearly demonstrate the Russian nuclear capability in our neighbourhood. This is being done at the same time as the regulations designed to be confidence building and promoting disarmament are being dissolved and President Macron invites to strategic talks on French nuclear weapons in Europe. A great deal of effort is now needed to uphold the agreements that still exist. The NPT Review Conference that will be held in May will therefore be particularly important in order not to jeopardise what has nevertheless been achieved in the NPT process. Responsibility rests heavily on all those who want to see a future of nuclear disarmament. Finally, Sweden should be a reliable force for human rights, for freedom, democracy and the functioning of the judiciary. Our effort for Agenda 2030 should be focused, strategic and clear. Women and men should have power over their bodies and the right to love who they want. We shall conduct our foreign policy with like-minded people and find sustainable solutions for trust, peace and freedom.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-306	Madam President, I would like In many respects, the Swedish Democrats and the Center Party are direct opponents of politics. But it actually happens that we agree with each other, and those occasions I think are extra fun. The problem is the fear of touch that the Center Party often has, despite the fact that we feel the same about certain issues. We saw last year that the Center Party did not want to sign up on Magnitsky sanctions, which would have been easy to do. In fact, there was vote in this House between the proposals of the Center Party and the Swedish Democrats, which were almost identical. We could have signed up and had a stronger opposition to the government. It might also have put pressure on the Moderates to join our proposal, which could have meant a new announcement to the government. I have another example. Kerstin Lundgren joined with me in the European Council delegation. My party friend Johan Nissinen, who unfortunately is no longer in Parliament, wrote a motion to try to promote the opportunities for LGBT people in Chechnya to be themselves, to love who they wanted and to avoid the oppression that the Russian Federation subjected them to. I do not know if I remember correctly, but that exercise went around in the Swedish delegation. It was no problem for the other MPs to sign it, even though it came from the Swedish Democrats, because of our common position. But from the Center Party and Kerstin Lundgren there was no signature. My question to Kerstin Lundgren, Madam President, is when you let go of the fear of touch and start to realize that sometimes we can actually think the same – and that is what matters.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-310	Madam President, I would like Touch-fearing? I think we have many talks with each other, both in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in this House. What it is about is whether we stand for the same policy, if we have the same proposal. That's what's important. We have, of course, had several proposals in which we had a common position. Take the discussion on China, where we in the committee held talks to find a common line. It's another example of us having conversations. But there is a difference, and that is the basis for evaluation. We stand up for LGBT people's rights to love who you want and live their own lives. We stand up for people's freedom, media freedom and cultural freedom. We don't want to block one or the other that doesn't fit. But the Swedish Democrats want that, and it is important to think it through. As long as the Swedish Democrats pursue an illiberal policy and see liberal forces and visions as opponents, we do not reach the same conclusions when we discuss, and then there will be different positions. Nevertheless, I hope that we will be able to have a greater consensus on Magnitsky legislation. We tried to involve the Foreign Affairs Committee, but when we did not agree, the Center Party chose to follow the order we have. In such cases, we stand up fully for our own sports, not those of others.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-314	Madam President, I would like That sounds great, what Kerstin Lundgren says. But the fact is that we have examples. On the question of Magnitsky sanctions, I do not even know if I myself could interpret any difference in our positions. It was basically the same proposal. The difference was that the Center Party then proposed something that we now also have in our motion for this year: a European consensus. It's just good; it's something we're behind. Nevertheless, there was a vote on two proposals which were largely identical. I think it's boring. Even in the Council of Europe it was quite clear that there was no signature because of who the sender was. I think it's a boring development. If it can be changed, I am the first to welcome it. I hope that in the future, here in Parliament together, we can maintain a reservation and perhaps get an announcement to the government regarding Magnitsky sanctions. I welcome that.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-318	Madam President, I would like If the whole Committee on Foreign Affairs is able to gather around a Magnitsky position, that is obviously something that we will welcome and contribute to. But it's not that we have any need to hook arms with parties with which we don't share values, and we don't share fundamental values with the Swedish Democrats. Just as Markus Wiechel began by stating, we are in many ways opposites. It is, of course, something that gives a verdict on positions in this House – and in the Council of Europe.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-320	Madam President, I would like In Diakonia's party leader survey for the 2018 elections, Annie Lööf answered yes to the question whether the Center Party will work to ensure that the EU has common rules on country-by-country public reporting for multinational companies. This is to combat tax evasion and increase citizens' transparency. Public country-by-country reporting for large multinationals forces large companies to report what profits they make and what taxes they pay in each country they operate in. It is a simple measure and an important tool to make aggressive tax planning difficult. With transparency and transparency, it will be possible to see whether multinational companies pay their share of the tax and otherwise try to demand responsibility. However, when the question was raised in the EU Council last autumn, on 22 November, it turned out that the questionnaire reply was not correct because the Center Party, Liberals and the Green Party voted in favour of the government's proposal not to demand responsibility from multinational companies. The Left Party and the Christian Democrats were the ones who voted against the government's proposal and left a common dissenting opinion. One can imagine that MP, L and C as a good budget partner have backed into the S-fold and therefore support the proposal. This means that Sweden is now joining the group of countries that have blocked the proposal. It includes Cyprus, Ireland, Luxembourg and Malta – as by chance countries we recognise as tax havens within the EU. Developing countries lose around $1,000 billion annually on illicit capital flight. In addition, they lose hundreds of billions of dollars annually through aggressive tax planning by companies and individuals. If we are to reduce global inequality, we must do something about tax evasion. Then, like the Center Party, you cannot escape responsibility and lie in polls in the election movement. When will the Center Party stop helping tax evasion?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-325	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling takes big words in his mouth when he talks about lying. Every opportunity is not the right thing to do. The discussion is once again about doing the right thing at home or achieving success in the EU. From our side, we stand up to work for a country-by-country accounting. But the question is how we do this – how we come up with a solution that will allow Europe to get together and also how we ensure that we have a level playing field in the OECD context. This is also an important aspect: ensuring competitiveness in the EU and in relation to other actors. The overall balance meant that we did not stand up for the position in the EU Council at this point. It would have been good to be able to account here, but it wouldn't have made a difference. It had not been achieved anyway, because the EU had not got around to such a position. The question is rather how we get on with the work to try to ensure a level playing field, which does not put either Swedish or European companies at a disadvantage in global competition.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-329	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren thinks I take big words in my mouth. When you answer questionnaires before election movements and say that this is what we think as a party, however, I think it is a promise to the voters to also, when they are elected as a party to the Swedish parliament, push those questions. This promise is in danger of being broken if one does as the Center Party in this case. Clearly, you think you can't make a difference. But Sweden is now the country that, if we change feet, breaks the blocking minority against the proposal. The Centre Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, if you change hands and get other parties here in the Swedish Parliament, could actually make a difference and make sure that this became a reality. Then you would follow up on the promise you once made to your constituents. But the problem is that you like to talk about doing something about tax evasion, but when it comes down to it, you don't want to do anything. This does not prevent inequalities in the world and, as a party, rather than voting in favour of the right proposal.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-332	Madam President, I would like Of course we have all read and answered surveys where the answers are yes or no – but there are also lines where you can comment. It's not a black or white world we live in. It is therefore important that we have the objective clear to us: we want to move towards a country-by-country accounting. It is about creating a level playing field for Swedish companies, not least small companies, which are currently affected by the reality of the situation. But it is also a question of building a solution that works for Europe on the global stage. We are not there yet, but that does not mean that we are not working in that direction and trying to work towards achieving it. However, we must have more with us.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-334	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren did as Donald Trump after the presentation of the US peace plan for the Middle East: She tweeted. Trumps's so-called peace plan, she wrote, and # international law. There are many things to be criticized and questioned about the American peace plan. This applies, moreover, to all the peace plans that have been presented over the last 70 or even 80 years. None of them have been perfect; none of them have led to peace, unfortunately. But when peace efforts are rife and attempts are made to initiate dialogue between different parties, there should be reason to ask what the own country, or party, has done and what it has contributed to and has led to. Since 2012 or 2013, the Center Party has called for unilateral recognition of a Palestinian state, despite the fact that there are two regimes, although none of them have control over the territory and despite the absence of borders. Is this, Kerstin Lundgren, in accordance with international law?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-337	Madam President, I would like This was one of the fundamental questions of how resolutions were decided in the UN and its Security Council. These are fundamental products and the work carried out by the European Union, not least during our time in the Alliance Government, to try to find a solution to a conflict that has lived far too long without solutions. We all hoped that the Oslo Accord would lead to a solution. There were all the parties involved, and it is clear that this was an important prerequisite for moving forward. On that basis, a Palestinian state would be established within a five-year period – this was agreed. Since then, progress has been made without any positive developments on the peace issue on the ground. Our position has been to ensure that the parties are more equal in the talks. Unfortunately, we have to say that the government chose to make a confession in a way that we did not want to see. We have also criticised this. There was a one-sided blow in the air, and we did not think that was reasonable. It served neither peace nor our role in the region. With regard to the so-called peace plan that has now been presented, it is also a one-sided product. It is quite clear that there are no more parties around the table. This is not conducive to peace and development, either on the ground or in the region. I fear that if the peace plan were to be implemented, the consequences would be enormous.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-341	Madam President, I would like With regard to the Centre Party's demand for recognition of a Palestinian state, which you have had for many years now, we now have a basis. We know how it went in 2014. No other country's government followed. Relations with Israel were demolished. The distance between the parties to the conflict increased. The Palestinian people didn't get anything better. In short, it was a serious foreign policy failure. In view of this, does Kerstin Lundgren see any reason for self-criticism in relation to your long-standing demand for recognition?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-343	Madam President, I would like That Sweden's recognition came as a flash from the clear sky and was counterproductive I think we can all agree on. It has not promoted either peace or our ability to hold talks in the region. It was a wrong decision made by the government in 2014. We would not have liked to see such a solution. We support the demand for recognition, but in our opinion the forms of recognition would be quite different. I think perhaps, Madam President, that Adaktusson is making Swedish recognition a little too great when he claims that it would have increased the distance between the parties in the region. To be honest, others have acted for this.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-345	Madam President, I would like The world's over 2,000 billionaires own more than the poorest 4.6 billion people on earth. The 22 richest men in the world own more than all women on the African continent. At the same time, women perform unpaid domestic and care work for a value equivalent to over SEK 100 trillion per year, according to the organisation Oxfam. We live in a world of brutal inequality that deepens and spreads every day. The world's 2,000 richest people made a total of 23 billion dollars a day last year, while the poorest half of the world's population saw their assets fall by 4 billion a day. The largest companies are more powerful than most countries. More than half the world's population lives on less than $1 (U.S.) a day. It is against this inequality that people are demonstrating around the world. This autumn we have seen demonstrations against inequality and injustice in countries such as Chile, Ecuador, Bolivia, Colombia, Lebanon, Iran, Hong Kong, Russia and Iraq. Much of the protests have been directed against liberalisation and neoliberal policies. The protests also reached Sweden. When Swedes with roots in Chile were to demonstrate at Sergels torg in Stockholm, they were helped by the people who had gathered to show solidarity with Kurdistan. At that time, the power of international solidarity became so clear. The Left Party is always part of that movement. For the Left, it is obvious that it is on the side of the demonstrators, on the demand for equality and justice, on the side of the people. Madam President, I would like Climate change threatens the availability of resources necessary for people's survival. The resource shortage affects different parts of the world and different people in different ways. Climate change and its consequences are also unequal. Developing countries are expected to bear 75% of the costs of climate change. The richest 10% account for about half of the world's carbon dioxide emissions, while the poorest half account for only about 10%. At a time when the multilateral world order is being called into question and threatened, and when nationalistic, reactionary, patriarchal and racist forces are on the rise, increased resource shortages can lead to severe conflicts. How we face climate change will be crucial. It is possible to implement the transition in a way that reduces the income gap, distributes wealth equally and increases international cooperation – the multilateral world order. In a world where the number of billionaires has almost doubled since the financial crisis, while 100 million people have been forced into extreme poverty every year, and education and health care in many countries have become a luxury that only rich people can afford – in such a world, real democracy has difficulty in existing. In such a world, we cannot live up to the equal value of all. Increased equality must become a central objective of Sweden's foreign policy. The Left Party believes that equality must be given priority in foreign policy. The government should therefore develop a strategy for global equality. It needs to contain clear efforts to stop capital and tax evasion, to curb the growing debt burden of more and more of the world's poorest countries and to support the efforts of states to develop universal and comprehensive welfare. In addition, the neoliberal ideas that still govern the global economic institutions must be dealt with seriously. A policy for greater equality is also a policy for the climate. Madam President, I would like We are living in a new political reality. Through the January agreement, the Social Democracy negotiated away its values in order to retain power. This is evident also in foreign policy. The question is also with what credibility this government could put itself on the side of the demonstrating peoples. How credible is the defence of equality when it comes from the government of the OECD country where inequality has increased most and which, despite this development, chooses to remove the defence tax for those who earn the most? How credible is the criticism of deregulation and neoliberal reform when it comes from a government that wants to introduce market rents, reduce labour law and liberalise the Public Employment Service? In this situation, Ann Linde travels to Davos to mingle with billionaires who decide politics behind closed doors! Madam President, I would like If the government had cooperated with the Left Party, it would have been different. This also applies in foreign policy. During the autumn, we have seen several examples where the policy of the Left Party has had an impact, including in foreign policy. Together with the Liberals, we marked against Turkey's offensive in northeastern Syria. It was our sharp proposal that became the basis for the Foreign Affairs Committee's unanimous decision to condemn Turkey's invasion and for Sweden to promote an arms embargo at EU level. As a result, Sweden stopped arms exports to Turkey and strengthened the EU's tone towards Turkey. This would never have been possible without all of you who, in solidarity with the Kurds, went and demonstrated against Turkey's offensive. I would like to thank all of you, and I would like to thank the members of Swedish Peace for all the thank you cards that I and Fredrik Malm received during the autumn. Thank you very much for them! In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have also manifested our agreement on China. In December, a united Foreign Affairs Committee said yes to the Left Party's proposal that Sweden should push for EU sanctions against the Chinese rulers who commit gross abuse of the Uighurs. Since autumn it has become clear that we have a minority government that needs parliamentary support for its policy. Today we are taking the next step to influence opposition. The Left Party supports the Moderates' proposal for a Commission for Gui Minhai. It's needed after over four years of failed diplomacy for his release. Once again, the Left Party can show that we are making a difference in Swedish politics both when it comes to the Public Employment Service and money for the welfare and our voice in the world. The foreign policy declaration this year is a real top priority. If the government were to start fighting global inequality and tax evasion, organised crime would be better combated than with an ambassador at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. Madam President, I would like The foreign policy of the Left Party is consistent. We stand up for justice, democracy and equality. We base our positions on respect for human rights and international law. We are on the people's side, for the people's right to choose their own leaders and to rule over their own future, against the big business and economic interests, whether they are the people of Hong Kong or Russia, Bolivia or the United States. Last night, Bernie Sanders won the primary election of Democrats in New Hampshire. It is the most hopeful thing that has happened in American politics for a long time. In 2020, it will be decided who will be the next President of the United States, the person who probably has the greatest impact on the conditions for Swedish foreign policy. It is clear that we have before us two completely different future options: either the misery of Trump will end in less than a year's time, or we will have to be drawn by his whimsicalness, racism and imperialism for five long years to come. The United States has a decisive choice ahead of it, and it will affect us a lot. At the same time, I cannot stop being surprised at the relationship between Swedish politicians and the US political leadership. We are happy to talk about the importance of international law, multilateralism and the drive for democracy. But all these ambitions seem to contain a major exception: the United States. Because when the United States, under President Trump, actively opposes these ambitions, it never chooses to condemn or reject. This has serious consequences for the credibility of government policies, which have become clearer since Ann Linde became Minister of Foreign Affairs. Let me give you a few examples: They do not call the coup d'état in Bolivia a coup d'état, but believe that President Morales It does not want to condemn the US military attack on Iraqi territory. It is happily claimed that Juan Guaidó is President of Venezuela, even though he is not elected by any people. And did we hear any strong reactions when Trump last week began to allow anti-personnel mines again? This, my friends, is the right move in Ann Linde's foreign policy. It is a social democracy that we do not recognise from a historical point of view.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-372	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling's salveful speech with traditional anti-Americanism and attacks from the left against the government and the Foreign Minister's mingling in Davos was liberating. It could break us away from becoming a bromantic. I would like to come back to a question, although I must note with some approval that here too the Moderates and the Left Party find each other. I am one of those who think it is better with 10 000 more police officers in Sweden than a new ambassador at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, and that seems to be an attitude that the Left Party also shares. Madam President, I would like In Turkey we see abuse. Håkan Svenneling has listed them himself. We see human rights and freedoms being violated, politicians being stamped and imprisoned and free media being circumscribed. Nevertheless, we see that various forms of elections are being held. A second mayor's election was also held in Istanbul, and it was an opposition representative who won. Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling's party leader, Jonas Sjöstedt, has called President Erdo中an a dictator. There can be many views on President Erdo中an. There can be many points of view on Turkey, as I tried to show. If, however, as a party, we call President Erdo中an a dictator, I wonder, Madam President, what we call Venezuela's dictator Maduro.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-376	Madam President, I would like I want to start by beating back Hans Linde's first attack on me, that I would be anti-American. I think what happened in the United States last night, for example, is one of the most hopeful things we have seen. I really like New Hampshire when they're so good at choosing a new presidential candidate. I shall then go over to Turkey and Venezuela. I am very concerned about the developments we are seeing in Turkey. I think we can talk about Erdo中an leaving the path of democracy, because we can see very clearly that he is influencing how the electoral system works. He's trying to rig it for the AKP. He even made an election in Istanbul in order to have his representative elected. But he failed because there are still forces against it. We can compare with, for example, Russia, which is often up for discussion in this House. We see that Erdo中an is much more powerful when it comes to arresting opponents, pressing the media and not allowing parties. We see that it has gone from just applying HDP to now also including other parties that are in opposition to the AKP. I am very concerned about developments in Turkey. As far as Venezuela is concerned, I think that the last year has shown how difficult it is to appoint a person as President who is not. The only thing Juan Guaidó has managed to do is get to the US Congress when Trump held the State of the Union century. I think it would have been smarter if Sweden had chosen a path where we did not choose between Juan Guaidó and Maduro as President. That is the line taken by the Left Party, and I believe that it would have been a clearer way forward in the negotiations on how to restore democracy in Venezuela. It must be made clear that Venezuela is not a democratically functioning state. There needs to be new elections. But we also need to oppose military intervention and the blockade of the United States, because it does not hit Maduro. It strikes the Venezuelan people.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-381	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling initially referred to me as Hans Linde, the former foreign policy spokesperson for the Left Party. It may reveal that moderate and leftist views may be worryingly similar. However, as far as Venezuela is concerned, we are critical of dictator Maduro. We say that the only legitimate institution and the only legitimate political assembly there is the National Assembly. There are powerful attempts by Maduro to surround, complicate and even destroy. But the main representative of it is Guaidó. That is why we recognise him as the legitimate representative of Venezuela. Madam President, I would like If the Left Party calls Erdo中an the dictator, I wonder: What is Maduro?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-384	Madam President, I would like When you listen to Hans Wallmark, you might think that my opinion would be very extreme. It is because I am the only one in the Swedish Parliament. But you can go to Hans Wallmark's colleagues in Norway, the Norwegian Høyre. They think the same thing as I do. That's where I think Sweden has made the wrong choice, because I think Sweden would rather stand up for a dialogue between opposition and Maduros's regime, because that's what it is for me. He has come to power through democratic and correct elections, but he does not keep it in a democratic and correct way. That is why new elections need to be held in Venezuela. Then we can play a role on the part of the European Union and engage in dialogue and be credible in it. But when you choose Juan Guaidó and say it's that guy-- who's not elected by any people and who has fewer votes than the Liberals got in the last parliamentary elections-- who's supposed to be president just because Donald Trump has chosen it, you're going a dangerous path where you don't actually establish and restore democracy in Venezuela.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-387	Madam President, I would like As far as developments in Turkey are concerned, there is every reason to be extremely critical of President Erdo中an and of the regime he leads and the repression to which he exposes journalists, parties, opposition and citizens. It is clear that the situation of the Kurds is deeply serious, and we have every reason to support and be vigilant in order to assert their right as well. But, Madam President, in this discussion it is still a little exciting. I hear the Left Party from the pulpit storm towards right-wing politics and then from the next speaker's seat embrace the Moderates and really invite them into the community so that they can obtain a voice that is stronger than the one in this House. It is exciting when the extremes meet in the Chamber, Madam President, in a slightly different way. I hope that there will be more liberal forces in the middle that come in instead – it is also needed in the Swedish parliament. But, Madam President, when I hear Håkan Svenneling talk about Maduro coming to power in a democracy and through proper elections I am becoming thoughtful. These are the choices which have not been approved and which have not been accepted. That is why the criticism of President Maduro was so clear, and that is why the demands for new elections are vital. Why is Håkan Svenneling hesitant here?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-391	Madam President, I would like It has obviously disturbed the middle gang that they do not have a majority in the Swedish parliament. We notice that every time we point this out. We show that in individual issues from left to right we can find each other towards the middle gang to bring Sweden's policy in the right direction. We're gonna do it and we can do it. That is what we on the V side want to be clear about all the time. We believe that the government should instead cooperate with us in the Left Party. I also think that the Center Party should think about it, because it is very clear that with the Left Party, the Social Democrats, the Environment Party and the Center Party we have a vote, and that means that we can stop a lot of proposals. Last parliamentary term we made sure that there was legislation on uranium mining. Two weeks ago we stopped nuclear power opening up in Sweden. These are important reforms that we can make together, and I think we can find this in foreign policy too if we just want to. It is believed that there are a few more liberals here than it does. Unfortunately, it does not, Kerstin Lundgren. I would just like to point that out. You're a minority government. As far as Maduro and Venezuela are concerned, I have made it clear that new elections need to be held, and that is because everything has not gone right throughout history. But we can see that the tactics chosen by the Swedish Government, the Center Party, other parties and the EU a year ago, when Juan Guaidó's side in an internal conflict in a country, have not been very successful. The only thing that happens is that he can travel to the United States, but there has been no more democracy in Venezuela. Things haven't improved on the ground. The Venezuelan people are suffering under US sanctions. That is where we are today. I think it would be much wiser to step aside and say, as the Norwegian right-wing government actually does, that we want to mediate between opposition and those who actually have power in Venezuela today, and that is Maduro. It's time to start realizing that now. I also think that Guaidó is wrongly painted as the opposition when it is much more diverse.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-398	Madam President, I would like I do not hear Håkan Svenneling make it clear that Maduro came to power through a choice that was neither fair, free nor correct. It would be welcome if Håkan Svenneling could make that statement. We support the National Assembly, which Maduro wanted to dissolve because it was not in line with his policy. That was a clear example of the misnomer that has taken place in Venezuela not only under Maduro but also under Chávez, which has caused the Venezuelan people to be hit very hard. When we said that free elections should be held, it was based on the Venezuelan Constitution. It was the President, or President, of the National Assembly who had this mandate when a president was not legitimate. That is why we support Mr Guaidó. We are building this on the Constitution.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-401	Madam President, I would like Let us begin by making a correct history description here, which Kerstin Lundgren does not actually do. Nicolá Maduro came to power after Hugo Chávez had been elected President several times – correctly according to an election in 2014. Then it was time for elections again. Then things didn't start to go quite right. They moved on election day. There were different kinds of strange things about the electoral commission that existed. Then things didn't go right. I intend to be clear, Kerstin Lundgren, with the fact that I think the solution is new elections in Venezuela. This is the only way to restore people's hope and confidence in democracy in Venezuela. I think it is time to start accepting that the line that has been chosen when Juan Guaidó has been appointed President with the support of Donald Trump and joined in what he says will not be the way. The Venezuelan people may well choose a left-wing leader again. But then you have to give the people the chance, and it is not my and Kerstin Lundgren's role to decide who is to be the leader. But with the way in which the West is acting in support of Juan Guaidó, we are trying to do just that.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-405	Madam President, I would like Venezuela has been mentioned. It is a country which is indeed on the brink of political and economic collapse, with a historically serious humanitarian crisis as a direct consequence. The other day, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees warned that up to 6 million Venezuelans may be on the run by the end of this year. How many people are starving, nobody knows. At the same time, we see that the ruthlessness and full power of Maduro and his regime know no bounds. As far as Venezuela is concerned, we must be clear that Europe's Communist and Left parties have chosen to reduce the regime's responsibility for what is happening. The abuse of power and the total decay in spite of Venezuela's collapse, as we heard from Håkan Svenneling, is blamed on the United States or, as it is called, an aggressive imperialist expansion. The Left Party is one of the parties that has long defended the so-called socialist experiment. In the first May of the Left as late as 2017, the dictatorship was hailed with a huge banner with the text: Venezuela is no threat. Venezuela is a hope. Håkan Svenneling! What is the Left Party's greeting to the millions of people who are suffering on a daily basis because of the regime you call hope?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-411	Madam President, I would like The Swedish right has never seen the progress made in Venezuela during Chávez's time, from the turn of the millennium onwards. This is because you do not want to see the people who were lifted out of poverty, how the economic divides were reduced and how the indigenous peoples of the country were included. Instead, it was chosen to applaud when there was a coup attempt against Hugo Chávez in 2003 and when the United States imposed tougher sanctions on the country. That is the clarity of this. The Left Party has been very critical of Maduro for a long time. You are trying to give the impression that it is in a different way just because we do not love Juan Guaidó. But we have been critical of Maduros's rule and the way in which he has reduced democracy and created a humanitarian disaster in a middle-income country. Venezuela is a tragedy in many ways. When the whole world had economic development, Venezuela's economy slowed down. It's been reduced to an incredible amount. And it is the people who have paid the price for it. I find it so sad that you do not care about the Latin American people. You never raise your voices for the people of Chile, who are now demonstrating, for the people of Bolivia, for women's rights or for indigenous rights in the Amazon. It is if there is a socialist behind it that you focus on it. It is extremely serious to applaud US sanctions against Venezuela. It is believed that it will punish the Maduro, the military and those in power. But it only punishes the Venezuelan people. It has been over a year since the Venezuelan crisis erupted. But you are still in the same figure of thought without seeing that perhaps it is time to start reconsidering the cards and looking at how we can get a way forward and how we can actually get to new democratic elections in Venezuela for real.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-416	Madam President, I would like Latin America is experiencing its worst humanitarian disaster so far. Håkan Svenneling says that it was still pretty good during Chávez's time. This is to smooth over and relativise in a way that we have seen many times. It is also a way of pursuing the policy that the Left has had for a long time. We saw it in the European Parliament when the Left voted against the recognition of Juan Guaidó as legitimate leader. This may seem a little strange. But it is in line with the attitude of the Left Party. When Maduro came to power in April 2013, popular Jonas Sjöstedt wrote the following greeting: Congratulations, Maduro and Venezuela! How does Håkan Svenneling view this greeting?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-419	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, you are wrong, Lars Adaktusson, in the description you give. We haven't given the kind of support you want to suggest we've given. We also abstained in the vote. We did not vote against the proposal in the European Parliament. The point is that we do not like the path chosen by the European Union, which appoints Juan Guaidó as President over the head of the Venezuelan people. We need to get back to finding a way forward in Venezuela. This does not mean that we should not see the human rights violations, the economic crisis and everything that Mrs Maduro has created. To refer to some greeting that Jonas Sjöstedt did before it broke loose seriously in Venezuela, I think is only bad policy. It is very clear that we have been expressing great concern for the Venezuelan people for a long time. The problem is that the rest of you are only stuck in your bourgeois logic when it comes to Juan Guaidó. It expresses concern but does not care about the Venezuelan people.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-422	Madam President, I would like I read a little bit in the Left Party's motion from this Parliamentary meeting dealing with Israel and Palestine. It was quite a lot that you recognize before. However, there was one thing that I was somewhat struck by, namely motion 25, where the Left Party is demanding that the Swedish innovation agency Vinnova interrupt all cooperation with Israel. I can't understand this. Of course, we should criticise the Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories and so on. But in the motion, the Left Party does not give any evidence or examples that Vinnova would be involved in such a thing. The main, and really the only, accusation made by the Left Party against Vinnova is that the agency has arranged a pitch competition for startups. I find it hard to see it as a major crime. Vinnova works to develop innovations. It is about artificial intelligence and things that can help in healthcare. You connect universities, you connect entrepreneurs and so on. Travel grants are also provided for participation in a global trade fair to produce food in a more sustainable way and so on. I cannot understand why the Left Party wants all this cooperation to be interrupted, and also in a country where there are good examples of good innovation. Why do you want to do that, Håkan Svenneling?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-426	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that I am pleased that Fredrik Malm has read our motion on Israel's occupation of Palestine. It's a good and interesting exercise. It is a pity that Fredrik Malm missed the fact that we are actually addressing several of the abuses committed by the Palestinian Authority against its own population in recent years. I think it is clearer in its criticism of Israel's occupation, but also in terms of the importance of human rights in Palestine. With regard to Amendment No 25 on Vinnova, there is no new policy on the part of the Left Party. We have long felt that Israel should not be rewarded as long as Israel occupies Palestine. We see several examples of doing so. There is a trade agreement between the EU and Israel that is very beneficial, and there is military cooperation – it is very small, but there is – between Sweden and Israel: some Israeli goods have been bought, there have been some military attachés in Tel Aviv and such things. We are opposed to this. Vinnova cooperation is one such example where we do not think that a state authority should cooperate with Israel. I have absolutely nothing against the agency's activities – I myself have been responsible politicians for its activities – but I do not think it should cooperate with Israel. I see cooperation as a reward even though it occupies Palestine. It will be very double on the Swedish side. We know that all checkpoints and the entire occupation make it virtually impossible for Palestinian business to develop. There is a beer that I do not think is so good and that is produced in Palestine, and it has had to stop being sold in Sweden because it cannot be delivered through Israel. Israel controls all export opportunities. In this situation, to see from Sweden that the Palestinian economy does not need less occupation, but instead to go to Israel and say that we should have more innovations, I think, is to reward Israel's policy in a way that I do not welcome.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-430	Madam President, I would like It is great that the Left Party is also addressing the abuse of the Palestinian Authority in its motion. The reason I do not mention this is that I have no objection to making that criticism, as it were. I rather welcome that. What I cannot understand is how Håkan Svenneling can draw a direct link between some kind of military cooperation and military attachés and that Swedish start-up companies in Stockholm or Gothenburg – or in Håkan Svenneling's own constituency – can meet entrepreneurs from other countries to see, for example, how to develop the processing of products, get a more sustainable agriculture and develop science. It is a very strange entry into the question of a conflict to want absolutely to punish what is most constructive of all, namely inventions and economic development.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-432	Madam President, I would like I think it should be remembered that this is not a collaboration between different start-ups but between two state innovation authorities, one in Sweden and one in Israel. If the situation is to be improved on the ground in Israel and Palestine, we should also focus on Palestinian innovation. We need to help the Palestinians develop their economy and, above all, find what we are missing today, that is, the meeting between Israeli start-ups and Palestinian start-ups. That is what the occupation does; it divides people and creates a physical and practical wall so that people do not meet. These are the things that The Parents Circle – the Families Forum and other examples of work to get Israelis and Palestinians to meet, which should be supported. If Vinnova made such a proposal, I would say yes to it, Fredrik Malm, but when one cooperates unilaterally with Israel, one rewards their occupation policy in a way that I will never accept.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-434	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by mentioning three compatriots who were not included in the government's foreign declaration this year either: Dawit Isaak, Gui Minhai and Ahmadreza Djalali. They are all imprisoned in brutal dictatorships. Those who hope that these people will disappear in oblivion hope in vain – there are many of us who will repeat the names of those imprisoned until the day they regain their freedom from this pulpit. The Christian Democrats stand for a value-based foreign policy. When abstinence and real politics characterise decision-making, Christian democracy stands for values based on human dignity and human rights. In the work for peace and reconciliation, Sweden achieves results in collaboration with other democracies. Through bilateral and multilateral cooperation, security is being built in our country and in the neighbourhood, while at the same time actively contributing to international security. The European Union is and remains Sweden's main foreign policy arena. The Christian Democrats are warm friends of Europe and work for an effective Europe that speaks as a voice in foreign policy and strengthens transatlantic cooperation with the United States. Against this background, it is crucial that Sweden applies for membership of NATO as soon as possible. Bilateral agreements in the field of defence are to be welcomed, but neither Finland, the United States nor any other partner country gives Sweden any defence guarantees. It only makes full membership of NATO. Madam President, I would like Just over 40 years after the Islamic Revolution, Iran is governed by a regime that oppresses its population, executes peaceful demonstrators and despises democracy. At the same time, Iran is today one of the greatest threats to international peace and security. We see it in Yemen, and we see it in Syria, Lebanon and Iraq. We see it in billions of aid for international terrorism, and we see it in the repeated threats of annihilating Israel and the Jewish people. Iran is not just any country. It is basically a ruthless and morally bankrupt system, and for a long time the lie is the established tool of the regime. This became clear after the shooting of the Ukrainian passenger plane. It was only when irrefutable evidence existed that the rulers saw themselves forced to admit the facts. 176 people lost their lives, and 17 of them were based in our country. Responsible for this crime is the Iranian regime. The responsibility for not allowing what happened to pass without action rests heavily on the Swedish Government. Extended sanctions are necessary and must be put in place, as happened in 2014 after the Russian shooting of the Malaysian passenger plane MH17. For the sake of the victims and relatives, accountability is essential. Action must be taken against the Iranian regime. Madam President, I would like As in Iran, developments in China are deeply worrying. As a result of political decisions, the power of the Communist Party is strengthened at the expense of people's freedom and democratic reforms. In recent times, religious persecution has intensified against Christians and Muslims. In Xinjiang province, 1 million Uighurs are placed in detention camps where torture and brainwashing are used to force loyalty to the Communist Party. At the same time, we see how the Chinese regime's claim to power extends beyond the borders of its own country. In Sweden, China's ambassador speaks threateningly against ministers, and the media are subjected to aggressive pressure. Attempts are also made to silence the Swedish citizen Angela Gui. At the same time, Säpo is alerting us about increased Chinese intelligence and refugee espionage from the regime. Diplomacy and political contacts with China should of course be handled responsibly, not least in view of the situation of the imprisoned Gui Minhai. But there must also be a limit to how China, with all its political and economic influence, can be allowed to act in our country. The Christian Democrats believe that this border has been crossed, and for that reason the Chinese ambassador must be declared undesirable in our country. At the same time, the government should actively seek support for China's policy with other EU countries. Madam President, I would like The Foreign Declaration highlights the "Drive for Democracy" initiative. One of the foundations of democracy is freedom of religion. Of the world's 2.3 billion Christians today live half a billion under circumstances that prevent them from freely practicing their religion. Christians today are the most persecuted religious group in the world. In the Middle East, in 2014 we saw the transition of persecution to genocide on Yazidi and on Christian populations such as Assyrians, Syrians and Chaldeans. The Swedish Government chooses not to recognise this as genocide. In the same way, despite the promises of Stefan Löfven, the government chooses not to recognize seyfo, the Armenian genocide in 1915. This, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is to betray the most vulnerable and compromise with values of human dignity and humanity – the values that should guide Swedish foreign policy.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-446	Madam President, I would like In December, Lars Adaktusson travelled to Israel with the organization Israel Allies Foundation. This is an organisation founded by the settler movement which does not recognise the existence of the occupation, which propagandises for Jerusalem to be the capital of Israel without Palestinian presence and which sees the marking of Israeli settler goods as warfare against Israel. In the past, former Member of Parliament of the Swedish Democrats Kent Ekeroth has taken part in such a journey. Who paid for the trip this time we do not know, but on the program there was a visit to a settlement and to meet Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. When the participants met with Netanyahu, they handed over a sign with signatures from the participants of the journey, promising that they would actively work against the decision of the European Court of Justice to require products produced in occupied areas to be clearly labelled in order to be sold in the EU. The Israeli settlements in the West Bank are illegal under international law. This specifically concerns the Fourth Geneva Convention and its ban on transferring its own population to occupied land. It has gone so far that Lars Adaktusson starts questioning recognised academics in international law from where they were born. I think this is about as reasonable as that I would question Lars' credibility on the basis that he is rooting for HV71. During Lars Adaktusson's time as a foreign policy spokesperson for the Christian Democrats, there has been a radicalisation of the view on Israel's occupation. The question is why the Christian Democrats want to align themselves with these extreme political movements in Israel. Are these the friends you want? What are the consequences for Christian Democrats' policy? Do the Christian Democrats and Lars Adaktusson support the international legal analysis that the EU, the UN, the Swedish Parliament and the International Red Cross have of Israel occupying Palestine? Do the Christian Democrats support the analysis by the UN, the EU, the Swedish Parliament and most recently the European Court of Justice that Israeli settlements are illegal?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-452	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling can make it happen. The trip to Israel took place together with 20 – 25 parliamentarians from – I believe – almost all EU countries, including Finland. We met with the Israeli opposition. We met representatives of various civil society organisations. We also met entrepreneurs and a variety of representatives of Israeli society. I think it is important to be up-to-date on what is happening – not least in domestic politics – in Israel these days when it has been a historically difficult parliamentary situation. Another election awaits March 2nd. That's what happened. Of course – and we have said this many times – the Christian Democrats support a two-state solution. We believe that this is the reasonable solution to the situation. At the same time, however, we are not naive and do not believe that this can be done tomorrow. What would happen if Islamic jihad and Hamas moved even closer to Israel and came even closer to Israeli densely populated cities? There would be a massacre of the Jewish people, and we want to avoid this. It is important to adhere to international law, but the worst crimes of international law committed in the Middle East conflict are committed by terrorist-stamped organisations such as Hamas, Islamic jihad and Hizbollah. I never hear Håkan Svenneling and the Left Party talk about these crimes of international law – always Israel is to be blacked out. Why, Håkan Svenneling?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-456	Madam President, I would like I would just like to say that Lars Adaktusson did not say that Israel is occupying Palestine. He also did not say whether the settlements are illegal or not, although he mentioned that international law should apply. I am fully aware that there are violations of international law on both sides. The rockets that Hamas, Islamic jihad and others shoot from Gaza at Israel are most times considered as crimes of international law because you do not know if you are hitting civilian or military targets. It is this – that he travelled down and saw what it looked like on the ground – which I think is the positive thing about Lars Adaktusson's journey. The problem when you ally yourself with this type of settler movements, as Lars Adaktusson has done in recent years, is that it will be very difficult to get any credibility, especially when you attack independent academics. I am worried that Lars Adaktusson will be Donald Trumps's spokesperson in Sweden when you think that Trumps's draft peace plan is a peace plan even though all of us see that it is a proposal for apartheid.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-460	Madam President, I would like Stop telling me we've allied ourselves with the settlers' movement! That's some vulgar propaganda that Håkan Svenneling has found in some left-hand shoes – it's total nonsense. Again, the serious thing that is happening is that the serious violations of international law by the terror-stampled organisations put terror in a whole population. Israel is today the most vulnerable country in the world in terms of such attacks. Do not see that the main cause of the Middle East conflict is not the occupation or settlements that Håkan Svenneling is talking about, but the threat to Israel – the threat of annihilating Israel – I think it is difficult to understand what is happening. That is what the whole conflict has been about since 1948.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-462	Madam President, I would like When the OSSE summed up the parliamentary elections in Azerbaijan the other day, they said that restrictive legislation prevented real competition and that their conclusion is that there was no meaningful discussion or choice for voters. This is an example of how many choices in the world are made. The ruling regime has strangled the possibilities of the opposition. The election aims to confirm the power, not to allow the population to vote for a change. To vote in free elections on the road to society is the most fundamental principle of democracy. But in a number of countries elections are rigged, as in Bolivia last autumn. The ruling regime is abusing state resources and creating total dominance, as in Venezuela. Critical candidates are stopped, as in Russia or Iran, or there are no elections at all, as in Palestine. But even in democratic states, elections can be abused. Election campaigns are corrupted by fake news and unbridled lies and exaggerations. This was the case in the United States when Donald Trump was elected and in the Brexit campaign in the United Kingdom. In several democracies, politicians can trixe with the constituency division in order to increase their chances of winning. In Turkey, the Constitutional Court is currently trying to shut down four political parties because they have the word Kurdistan in their party names. Madam President, I would like Democracy, of course, is about far more than free elections. But without free elections, there is no democracy. Unfortunately, Swedish foreign policy has often been evasive against authoritarian states, and in many places our aid has even strengthened negative developments and contributed to corrupt regimes having been able to cling to power. Mozambique is one such example. The period 2015 – 2020 goes over SEK 4 billion in aid there. In Mozambique, the same party has ruled continuously since the liberation of the 1970s, and the party controls the whole state apparatus. The elections have been criticised, the opposition harassed, the champions of the government party are the economic elite and corruption is widespread at the highest political level. Yet Sweden channels hundreds of millions of Swedish tax crowns to this regime year after year. A liberal foreign policy is about strengthening democratic freedoms and rights. Our support should go to those who want to build democracy, not to those who shut their mouths on their critics. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, much is night black in the world but far from everything. In recent decades, science, the economy, technology and globalisation have taken our world to new heights. Hundreds of millions of people have been lifted out of poverty. We live longer, learn more, and can cure ever more severe diseases. This is the result of individual freedom, property rights, free trade and a market economy – capitalism, if you like. It is also the result of extensive investment in education, welfare, health care and research. Liberals believe that Sweden's foreign policy, diplomacy, trade and other relations with other countries must be about strengthening such positive processes. The basis for the whole positive development of the world is liberal democracy, multilateral world order and respect for the rule of law. But in many places this development is under threat. Sweden, like a small and open society, is also exposed to pressure from less constructive states. Countries such as Russia, China and Iran act destructively against Sweden and in Sweden. For our long-term security, it is very important that we deepen our cooperation with our Nordic neighbours and with the European Union. Sweden should become a member of NATO, and we must protect critical infrastructure and information technology from anything from hostile takeovers to hacker attacks. Madam President, I would like The environment and climate are a matter of destiny for us humans and for our planet. This cannot be expressed clearly enough. Our foreign policy must be used actively to safeguard global emission reduction agreements, strengthen technology transfer and contribute to climate change. Sweden should act to create a common CO2 tax in the European Union and to improve the functioning of the emissions trading system. The objective should be, even if it is later on, to create a global price of carbon dioxide, which would be the most effective way of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The effects of climate change also create geopolitical tensions. People are forced to move or flee because water supply is reduced or because agricultural land no longer produces as it used to. This in itself is a major risk globally. The climate issue is also linked to democracy. More fossil-free energy reduces our dependence on oil and gas, which is often imported from undemocratic states. Breaking oil dependence also forces countries to switch to more climate-friendly production. Madam President, I would like Liberal foreign policy is a firm and principled support for women's rights and vulnerable minorities. We view with despair and anger the oppression and slavery suffered by women and other vulnerable groups and individuals in many countries. We stand behind the right of vulnerable democracies such as Taiwan, Israel and Hong Kong to live in freedom and security and for the citizens to choose their own path for the future.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-478	Madam President, I would like I very much appreciate Fredrik Malm's speeches in many respects, not least in today's change of line with the Foreign Minister when he raises the situation of the Kurds in Turkey. It is quite often that the Liberals come up with good positions in the field of foreign policy. I am therefore a little concerned about the January agreement reached by the Liberals with the government and the Center Party. The Liberals have almost completely left the walkover to the government in the field of foreign policy. On just one specific issue, some foreign policy was agreed, and this was the 1% target for aid. It was clear here that it would be retained and that no exceptions would be accepted. But where the aid would go was less important. Of course, there was something about democracy being important, but in addition to that, the Liberals largely ignored foreign policy – despite the knowledge that it is the government that owns foreign policy. Does Fredrik Malm think that the agreement was good if he looks at the foreign policy area?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-483	Madam President, I would like I thank Markus Wiechel for the question and the reasoning. Liberals do not quite share the view of some of the other parties in the January constellation on a number of fairly central issues. This means that we are a bit apart on some foreign policy issues. My conclusion and that of several other liberals is therefore that we want a freer role in foreign policy issues in order to be able to make agreements with parties outside the January constellation as well. For example, we did this last autumn with the Left Party when it came to stopping arms exports to Turkey. It is true that foreign policy is essentially a competence of the government. This is the case under our constitution, which means that the role of support party is somewhat problematic when it comes to foreign policy. Nevertheless, I am pleased with the parts of the January agreement relating to development cooperation, such as aid, and that there should be a greater focus on democracy there. Liberals will follow this closely and see how this work is progressing. We are also prepared to negotiate in the parts on which we have agreed in the January Agreement. But in large parts of foreign policy we can also make agreements with other parties in the Swedish parliament.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-488	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Fredrik Malm for his clarification. Nevertheless, I am a little puzzled by the fact that the government owns foreign policy and that the Liberals are a long way from the government parties on many foreign policy issues, not least with regard to Israel – Palestine. We have the management of various totalitarian states, where the Liberals are much closer to us on this issue, for example when it comes to the situation of the Kurds in Turkey and so on. The government could be under much more pressure, and I regret that the Liberals did not raise these questions. They could have been included in the agreement, given that the Social Democrats made great concessions. Why did the agreement not put more emphasis on foreign policy?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-490	Madam President, I would like Foreign policy is important. There are some parts or points of the January agreement that concern foreign policy. This includes, for example, the points about the 1% target and that it should be a greater focus on democracy and a focus in Swedish aid. These are quite large areas we are talking about. This concerns the focus of 1% of our gross national income, almost 50 billion. There are also wordings relating to arms exports to countries that are belligerent in Yemen, for example. On other issues of foreign policy, I can see that the parties on various issues can be differently close and different from each other as well. We are acting within the framework of the January cooperation agreement on the points we have negotiated. On the points we have not negotiated, we are free to act.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-492	Madam President, I would like I am going to talk about what Fredrik Malm mentioned in relation to the January agreement and arms exports. In October, Fredrik Malm and I took an initiative in the Committee on Foreign Affairs to stop arms exports through an arms embargo at EU level. It was a great deal about and but, at the end of the day, we reached agreement in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. As a result, Sweden's tone was tightened up and, to some extent, the EU's voice was also strengthened. On the other hand, the decision was made to stop arms exports by the ISP authority, with reference to the statements made here in Parliament but also by the government and the EU. It is not only Sweden's arms exports to Turkey that are problematic. If you want to achieve what Fredrik Malm was into, building democracy, you have to think about our exports to the countries participating in the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen. It amounted to SEK 716 million between 2015 and 2018. We have exported to six countries, and the war has been going on for five years. All six countries are authoritarian states that violate human rights. Around the corner is also the sale of the Globaleye battle management and radar system, which would significantly improve the United Arab Emirates' capabilities in Yemen and which involves as much as SEK 20 billion. I think it was a good thing that the Green Party but also, I would say, the Liberals pushed for paragraph 70 of the January agreement, which is about stopping exports to the Saudi-led coalition. Unfortunately, the Socialist Ministers do not seem to be listening, for a year after the beginning of the January Agreement nothing has happened. Not a single initiative has been taken to meet this point. On January 20 this year Benjamin Dousa wrote that it is M and S who need to dictate the conditions for Swedish arms exports, not the small parties.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-497	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling says nothing has happened in a year. Is this not quite good, because it means that it has not renewed any export permits? Basically, I share Håkan Svenneling's view that Sweden should not export arms to countries that are undemocratic. This was the basis for the whole so-called KEX investigation into the legislation on arms exports. The basis of the investigation was precisely that we should have a regulatory framework that imposes more restrictions on the export of war material to countries that violate human rights. I assume that the legislation is complied with and that no decision is made to export war material to countries that are authoritarian or, in this case, would violate the point on which we agree in the January agreement.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-500	Madam President, I would like We have not received the statistics for exports in 2019, but it will come forward in spring. It will be interesting to see the impact that paragraph 70 of the January Agreement has actually had. My point is that the government has not since taken any decisions to do anything to stop arms exports, but it is stuck in that everything is fine because we got a new legislation that Parliament decided on 2018. But that's not quite true. For example, the United Arab Emirates ambassador has stated that paragraph 70 does not apply because it is not decided by the government, that it is a paper between Fredrik Malm and Ann Linde and that it has no effect in practice. I think the Liberals have a choice here. I understand that the Social Democrats are tough, inflexible and completely hopeless. They have been so when I have worked with them, and it has certainly been the same for the January parties. But we should still want to do something in practice, and here I think the small parties – the Liberals, the Center Party and the Green Party – have a responsibility to get the slow Social Democrats going.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-502	Madam President, I would like The ambassador in the United Arab Emirates seems to have an attitude towards the January agreement which is similar to that of Håkan Svenneling's party and also the Moderates, who are now doing everything to ensure that the agreement does not last. In fact, we have legislation in place that is probably the most restrictive in terms of all countries comparable to Sweden. In addition, we have a political control mechanism in the form of the Export Control Council, EKR. I cannot comment on previous agreements and other matters relating to retroactive legislation and such things, but I assume that Sweden does not export arms to countries such as Saudi Arabia.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-504	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Malm is liberal and is on the wrong Stockholm team in football. Yet he is an excellent person and political representative. Not rarely do the Liberals and Christian Democrats have a common view of foreign policy, for example in their view of the Middle East conflict and Israel. In both parties, we mourn the destruction of relations with the only democracy in the Middle East by the Red-Green Government. We are concerned about the spread of anti-Semitism by the Palestinian leadership and the support of those sentenced to terror. What distinguishes is that the Christian Democrats are an opposition party and that the Liberals, as we have heard, are part of organised cooperation with the government and have their own officials in the Government Office. Foreign policy is not part of the agreement with the Red Green parties. Nevertheless, I would like to ask Fredrik Malm: is there any possibility for the Liberals, with the contacts that the party still has with the government, to influence the Middle East policy in the right direction, so to speak?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-507	Madam President, I would like I have the greatest concern with Lars Adaktusson's comments on football team preference. I grew up right next to the old Söderstadion. I went to my first Hammarby game in 1987, when we lost 1 – 0 to Brage. The green and white stripes never go out, even though Lars Adaktusson is black yellow. Apart from this, I noted that during his visit to Israel, the Prime Minister wrote an article in Israeli press in which he made it clear that Sweden is behind the entire international definition of what is anti-Semitism. It includes elements relating to systematic, unilateral and uninhibited attacks on the state of Israel and that these may be linked to anti-Semitism. I think that was a good clarification. I was also not entirely sure that the Social Democrats would land in such a conclusion. Not least, we have seen the progress of Labour in the United Kingdom; they bored themselves with those issues and had an extremely exhausting internal debate. It would certainly not have improved Sweden's reputation or relations with Israel if a different conclusion had been reached. I think this is an example of the fact that it is not so one-sided that everything in the government's Israeli policy or the Prime Minister's view would only be demonising or negative against Israel. I also believe that there are good examples, and I think they should be highlighted in this context. But otherwise, of course, we are working to ensure that Sweden has a more balanced position in the Middle East conflict.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-511	Madam President, I would like I agree with Fredrik Malm that there are positive signs. But social democratic foreign policy has a long history. The ditch has been driven in relation, for example, to Cuba, Iran and other authoritarian states. I do not believe that the Liberals are responsible for social democratic foreign policy. On the other hand, the Liberals have contributed to the Social Democrats being in power. If I do not remember wrong, Fredrik Malm argued that the Liberals should be fully part of the government. Would this, Fredrik Malm, be better in order to influence foreign policy?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-513	Madam President, I would like The last one is very difficult to answer. It depends entirely on who is the Foreign Minister. If it is a liberal foreign minister, I expect more liberal policy than if it is a socialist foreign minister. But basically, Madam President, we in Parliament are eight parties with different views on various issues. In some contexts we meet and can come to an agreement. The conclusion reached by my party was that we did not want a right-wing populist party to have such an influence on daily politics that in practice it could make every case conditional every single vote every Wednesday and Thursday for eight months each year. This would have posed enormous problems for the stability of the Swedish political system. For my part, the conclusion of the changes in the political landscape was that the January agreement was necessary.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-515	Madam President, I would like We in Sweden can only build security and stability together with others. We depend on the outside world. In our global world, cooperation and support for UN organisations is therefore central. There, countries have agreed on an ambitious global agenda to achieve common goals by 2030, which provides a clear focus for our overall efforts to make the world better for others. However, many of the countries behind the agenda find it difficult to live up to fundamental human rights. Women are oppressed. People's groups are being persecuted. The population is being monitored. The right to vote and freedom of expression are restricted. Totalitarian regimes deny their citizens the freedom and rights that are fundamental to building peaceful and sustainable societies. Economic inequality is increasing, both between and within countries. All over the world, people are demonstrating for freedom, equality, democracy and climate change. In that transition, everyone must be involved, and we must help to involve people. Participation gives democracy, and without democracy we have no lasting peace or transition. For more than a decade, democratic space has been reduced and civil society has been pushed back. Securing the role and space of civil society through our international work is therefore an important priority and needs to continue to be so. Madam President, I would like The world is changing rapidly, and we are in a hurry. Climate policy is increasingly a security policy. We need to secure the future of our children and grandchildren. In ten years' time, emissions will have to be halved. Instead, we see how things are going in the wrong direction and how climate change is already here. The fires in Australia, the drought in Ethiopia, the floods in Indonesia, the locusts in Africa and the frequent rain of alarm reports from the IPCC testify to the incredible human suffering and the unimaginable costs of climate change. It is the world's poorest that is hit first and hardest, but we are all losers. But in the transition, Sweden is showing the way, both at home and globally. That leadership role must not be neglected. When Sweden takes precedence, we create space for others to follow. And we have shown that politics has the power to change. Thanks to our work and Isabella Lövin's The Swedish Proposal, which radically raised the price of emission allowances in the EU, coal use is raging in country by country. Coal in the Coal and Steel Union is playing its part. At the same time, Sweden is the leader in the global struggle for conversion. We've shown that it's possible. It is our role to constantly push for more and faster action, because more measures are needed to cope with the climate, our most important safety issue. The conversion work needs to be done on all fronts. We are now putting an end to Swedish fossil export credits and eliminating fossil investments in the AP funds. Our common money will support the transition, not stop it. Madam President, I would like Swedish aid is defined for Swedish politics and Sweden's relationship with our surrounding world. International solidarity is an ideological pillar not only for us Greens but for many involved Swedes. With great power comes a great responsibility, and that responsibility shoulders Sweden. Our aid is the best in the world. We'll be incredibly proud of that. It is therefore with concern that I now see the moderate opposition challenge aid. They want to take back the money that today goes to children in war situations, to families on the run, to farmers who have lost their crops and livestock in the drought and to schools that give thousands of children an opportunity for a better life. It is a cold policy, unworthy of a country like Sweden. There are those who want to say that we cannot afford solidarity. Just recently, however, we commemorated the Holocaust and promised that such a thing would never happen again. Today, historically, many people flee from war, oppression and climate change. At the same time, in many places we are debating how we can limit the reception of people fleeing for their lives. I would like to pay tribute to the memory of the Holocaust – and never forget what happened – by safeguarding the right of asylum and the people who are on the run today. Asylum law means for us in the Green Party that we learned from the history of the World War. This means not to let down ideals and agreements now at a time when they are needed most. Madam President, I would like The road to an equal world is long. That is why feminist foreign policy is so important. It is a question of where women are and putting them first. In today's Europe the right to abortion is under threat, and conservative forces are gaining ground by questioning women's right to their own body. Donald Trumps's so-called gag rule has had a big impact, but Swedish aid is there to meet up and save the lives of many of the world's most vulnerable women. Madam President, I would like When anxiety increases and people are confronted with people, we must not hesitate to push for improvement at every opportunity.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-526	Madam President, I would like Janine Alm Ericson mentioned earlier today that the Green Party will always stand up for the 1% target. As many people know, I am a strong supporter of international aid. But I also have my limits. My borders have been crossed when we see shootings in Sweden, when we see pensioners looking for cans because they can't get their finances together, when we see health care falling completely, so that people die in the care queues, when we see Swedish society falling apart because there aren't enough resources spent on those who have once built our society, on those here in Sweden who are weak and need our support and on the young people who live in alienation areas that today have almost turned into war zones and when around the country there are explosions that can be compared to drug cartels in Mexico. This is a development that I know I share the concern about with Janine Alm Ericson and many other Members of Parliament. We're all worried about this. I and my party see that we must somehow stop and ensure that we can invest the resources of our society for the citizens who voted for us. Our main mission is for the Swedish citizens and the people who live here. As a supporter of aid, I think it is good that we are helping other parts of the world. But when society looks like it today, we have to bet here. My question to Janine Alm Ericson is: How far can the government and the Green Party go? Can't you stop at some point? Can't you see that we can't send more money abroad when we don't have enough here in Sweden?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-531	Madam President, I would like We support the 1% target in aid. As I said before, it is not because it is a figure but because it has an effect in the countries where we choose to help or in the major international institutions. The fact that the Swedish Democrats are a warm supporter of aid is a welcome thing to hear. But it sounds a little false when you really want to pull down. Markus Wiechel is now trying to make domestic policy out of the foreign policy debate. Of course you can do that. Then I would just like to say that the picture that has now been painted is to some extent true. We have big problems in Sweden with some parts. That it would be because we have international solidarity and are trying to help and make the whole world a better place, also because it is good for us in Sweden, is not an analysis I want to put up with. Domestic policy and the problems we see here need to be addressed with national policies. It is about strengthening health care and the judiciary and hiring the new police officers that the government has supported. We'll work hard for it with police training and more coming back to the profession. That we would have to reduce our international ambitions to make the world a better world for all to cope with our problems here at home I am not up to.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-535	Madam President, I would like All politics goes hand in hand. Foreign policy and internal policy are interrelated. Everything we do in foreign policy will also affect us in internal politics. That's exactly what I'm trying to say here. When you prioritise the one-percent target as you do, you also downprioritise Swedish society. You are deprioritising investments in the judiciary, our pensioners here in Sweden and other things that need resources here in Sweden. For many years, the Swedish Democrats have been the party that, following the accounts you supported, spent the most money on international aid. But now we realize that we can't do it anymore. We have so many weak groups in Sweden that need support. That's what I find so sad about this attitude. Enough money will be flown out of Sweden. I mean firmly that the money is needed in Sweden
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-539	Madam President, I would like We need more money to secure several different businesses in Sweden. We also do so through the government's budget. When we talk about down-priorities, it is interesting to note that the Swedish Democrats support a draft budget that involves major tax cuts also for people who already have a lot. It wants to set vulnerable groups against each other and instead favour groups that have a great deal and could share in solidarity. Apart from tax cuts, they say that they want to cut subsidies to municipalities very much. They currently have large costs for, for example, the reception of refugees. It's a policy of unsolidarity. It does not support those who are vulnerable in Sweden and globally.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-542	Madam President, I would like The Green Party is behind the foreign policy declaration. That is why one of the perspectives that has not been raised in this foreign policy debate should be highlighted. That is the wording that was on page 3 that we should contribute to long-term stability and security in our part of Europe. That is, of course, important. The only question is how. My picture is that the Green Party is a party that stands up for multilateral solutions and that likes that there is clarity in politics. The question is: is the security policy really clear in our part of Europe now? We're in between. We are part of the European Union. Does the Green Party want the EU's security and decision-making capabilities also to be strengthened militarily? Is it that all of a sudden alone is strong? Or is sodomy the important thing as with Sweden and Finland? Could the Green Party possibly consider membership of NATO as an important element in clarifying our position and our choices to anyone who might be considering?
i-DPj4tmLHYcGUPvYYBv1d2N	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for the question! There I can give a clear answer. For those who wonder whether the Green Party wants to join NATO, the clear answer is no. On the other hand, I am pleased with, among other things, the duality that Kerstin Lundgren mentions with our increased cooperation with, for example, Finland. It's not the only cooperation we have. We have bilateral agreements with England and France. We are part of the European Union. There, of course, we are pursuing a common policy, and we are strengthening each other. If security in Europe was just on Sweden's table to decide and strengthen, we would probably have seen a completely different development. Unfortunately, we don't see it. Brexit, for example, has been a part of fumbling and not knowing what it will mean for relations. We want strong cooperation between countries so that they are democratic and have the same values. That is something that we very strongly support.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-550	Madam President, I would like It is about having strong, organised and clear cooperation with the countries that we are close to. It is the UK post-brexit, Norway and, of course, most other EU members, namely NATO. It is a natural way to create visibility and clarity about the Swedish security policy approach. It is a good guarantee for Sweden if you want to be contributing to long-term security Madam President, I would like Twofold was popular with the Green Party and preferably with Finland. Could the Green Party possibly consider doing the same thing as Finland? Would a NATO option be possible? Finland has an option to join NATO. Is it the case that the Green Party wants to drive Finland away from that option?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-552	Madam President, I would like I have no comment on how other nations choose to decide their NATO membership. However, I think it is interesting what has happened in the last six months and what developments for NATO have been like. We have heard very serious criticism of Turkey in this House. There is something I support. It is not being taken into account at all in these political thoughts and when we talk about how we should approach NATO. That's remarkable. Then you have your different attitudes and motivations on this issue. We in the Green Party believe that Sweden is best placed to remain outside NATO. It is a policy that we will continue to pursue.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-555	Madam President, I would like The Green Party is run from the peace movement, and I think that Janine Alm Ericson has listened with interest to the lines I have had about arms exports. It has been clear that you, Janine Alm Ericson, want the government to do more than it does today. You said to Swedish Radio in January: The Green Party does not look at paragraph 70 as a continuation of existing rules. It's good, I think, that you do that analysis. You also say: We will fight to reduce arms exports and especially to the belligerent countries of Yemen. That is what is at the heart of paragraph 70. The problem with the year behind us with the January agreement is that we have not seen any concrete decisions by the government when it comes to halting arms exports. It is important to compare Turkey and Saudi Arabia. As far as Turkey is concerned, a pressure was created by Fredrik Malm in the Swedish Parliament, where Janine Alm Ericson and everyone else voted that we should be harsh in our condemnation and push for an arms embargo. As a result, the ISP authority said: Yes, we will no longer export weapons to Turkey. However, it is clear that paragraph 70 of the January Agreement has not been understood in the same way, because it has not taken that decision on the part of the ISP. There are ambassadors who still think it's okay to facilitate exports, and we see that Globaleye is around the corner for arms exports. Ann Linde said before that exports are important and that trade agreements are to be held. I therefore wonder what Janine Alm Ericson thinks that the government has done no more to comply with paragraph 70. Do you have any ideas and suggestions on how to get the sossies going so they can get on the train? And what does Janine Alm Ericson think about running an arms embargo in the EU against the Saudi-led coalition?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-561	Madam President, I would like I am glad that Håkan Svenneling and the Left Party have understood that we are very much against arms exports when it goes to undemocratic states or countries in conflict. That was also one of the reasons why we really pushed in paragraph 70. We did this in order to clarify this position and how important it is for us and for our foreign policy. We have been involved in pushing forward the even stronger arms export legislation that we now have. One might say that we would have liked to have seen it go even further, but because sometimes we have to take a compromise in order to move forward in the work, we chose to do so and to support what we now see: improved legislation. What I said in the radio interview is absolutely true. The Green Party is pushing in every room and at every opportunity so that no arms exports will go to undemocratic states, to countries in conflict or – what is most pointed out – to those countries that wage war in Yemen. This is something I can say that we do almost every day, in different ways and by different means. But the fact that the government should not have had the question on its table is not true. It's been effective.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-566	Madam President, I would like I am pleased with what I hear from Janine Alm Ericson, and I have no doubt that she wants to stop arms exports. There may be examples where cases have been brought up from ISP to the government where the government has taken a decision not to export. But it really does not matter when you have not put your foot down and stopped arms exports as the ISP has done with Turkey. I am pleased that Janine says that the Green Party is working on this every day, and I intend to support that work and continue to hope that the Green Party will continue to fight for it. It is necessary to do so when you say, for example, as in this speech, that women should be given priority at all times. It is also about the Yemeni women. One cannot have the reasoning that I have heard from the Social Democrats when one believes that one can defend the Yemeni women by exporting arms to Saudi-led coalitions. I'm afraid that's not how war works in the world. We have to say that women and children are the ones who suffer most in the conflict that has been going on for five years in Yemen. That is what we have so many times turned a blind eye to in the Western world.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-569	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling is quite right about that. The humanitarian situation in Yemen is horrifying to see and something that everyone should really do more when it comes to getting closure on. It is completely unworthy, and what Håkan Svenneling says is absolutely correct. I do what I can every day so that Sweden's arms exports will not go to these countries.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-570	Madam President, I would like In the foreign debate a year ago, I asked the representatives of the Green Party questions about anti-Semitism in Sweden and in Europe. It is widely known that within the Green Party there have been problems with people associated with Islamism. Anti-Semitism is the DNA of Islamism. The threat to Jews because they are Jews lies in all Islamism. Within the EU, active work is under way against Jew hatred in all its forms. The European Parliament and also the European Commission have adopted a European definition of anti-Semitism. It is about the definition that has been developed by the Holocaust Rememberance Alliance and which has also been adopted by the countries of the OSSE. The Green Party has gone another way. When the European Parliament voted on this common definition in 2017, the Green Party parliamentarians chose to vote against the definition. Fredrik Malm mentioned that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven recently wrote in an Israeli newspaper that the Swedish Government has decided to support this definition, including the examples attached. I assume that the Green Party is also behind this government decision. My question is therefore: has the party changed its mind because you were wrong in the past or because intergovernmental cooperation requires a change of position?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-575	Madam President, I would like The Green Party really resists anti-Semitism. It is something that is absolutely terrible and that unfortunately we have too great historical results. We've seen what it can lead to. In the introduction to his reply, Lars Adaktusson tried to argue that the Green Party would somehow support anti-Semitic forces. That is an absurd statement, which I am strongly opposed to. Even last year they tried to paste this epithet on us, and I hope I was as clear then. When it comes to definitions and what they mean and do not mean, it is clearly trying to find clarity in the international community. What we want to be clear about is that we must be able to criticise Israel's occupation of Palestine and violations of international law. Some see it as not possible to do so with this definition. We say that this definition still allows us to do so. International law applies, and we must be able to stand up for international law. It is possible to find the differences in the positions that the European Parliament has taken on this issue and in what the government has done.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-579	Madam President, I would like I do not know if I understood it correctly, but I still take it as saying that the Green Party is behind the government's decision. I also understand that it is a recognition that the party has been wrong in the past when it voted against the definition. It is perfectly possible to criticise Israel and the policy of the Israeli Government with the definition. It says at the outset: Criticism of Israel similar to that of other countries cannot be regarded as anti-Semitism. It's perfectly clear. Basically, it is bad that the Green Party has for a long time had a hostile attitude towards the only Jewish state, Israel. Names such as Per Gahrton, Gustav Fridolin, Mehmet Kaplan and Yasri Khan illustrate the problem. Nevertheless, I would like to ask Janine Alm Ericson whether it is not time for a more balanced view of Israel.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-583	Madam President, I would like We have never had a hostile view of Israel's right to exist. We stand firm behind a two-state solution, despite the so-called peace plan now presented unilaterally by the United States. We still want to believe that one is possible. I noticed, however, that Lars Adaktusson did not answer Håkan Svenneling's question before about his view of the occupation and settlements. In this way one can think of the extent to which the Christian Democrats are behind the two-state solution which is still the way forward for the international community.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-585	Mr President, I would like to In terms of population, Sweden is a medium-sized country, dependent on exports and thus dependent on a functioning free trade, at the same time geographically placed in a situation where political and military tensions are at times great. But Sweden is also a country with a clear and influential voice in foreign policy in the world. Democracy, freedom of expression, human rights and the right of every country to secure borders are the basis of Swedish foreign policy. These are values for which there is broad support here in the Swedish parliament and which apply equally well when Sweden has a social democratic-led government as when the country has a bourgeois government. Anyone who has listened to this debate from the start this morning has been able to hear how there is a broad political consensus on Sweden's foreign policy – not a complete consensus on everything but a broad consensus on what is the basis. This was also expressed by the Foreign Affairs spokesperson of the Moderates and the Vice-Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Hans Wallmark, in his speech this morning. On the one hand, combining free and open trade with the whole world with strong values, which in some cases lead Sweden to make clear criticism of different countries, is a balancing process. It is not always an easy balancing process, but it is an important balancing process in order to maintain a high level of Swedish prosperity, contribute to global economic development and at the same time contribute to a development in the world that allows more and more people to enjoy human rights and live in democracy as all people in the world should be allowed to do. An active Swedish foreign policy is important to contribute to our economic, political and military security. Sweden should be a strong and clear voice in world politics. That is the voice we are going to use in the EU – the EU which, as Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde put it in the foreign policy declaration this morning, is Sweden's most important foreign and security policy arena. The strong voice becomes strongest when it is also heard through EU cooperation. Sweden's foreign policy work also takes place at the UN. It is an organisation with many shortcomings, but that is what we have for global cooperation. It is therefore important to continue to work actively there – to work to reform the UN, to participate in the UN peacekeeping work and to work to ensure that those affected by various conflicts are also heard at the UN. Those most affected by conflicts are women, and therefore it is an important part of Sweden's feminist foreign policy that women should be able to speak in different UN contexts. In some cases it is more important than in others that the Riksdag stays together in Swedish foreign policy. Therefore, I would like to thank all the parties here in the Swedish Parliament and their representatives in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, of which I am chairman, for the extensive work that everyone participated very actively in this autumn and until lucia time in producing the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's letter on Sweden's relationship with China. We are many Social Democrats in this debate, and my colleagues in their forthcoming speeches will address various aspects of the foreign policy of the Social Democrats in areas such as disarmament, the Middle East, sexual and reproductive health and rights, and feminist foreign policy. When the foreign policy debate began this morning, there were a large number of ambassadors from different countries in Parliament's gallery. Then we, who were in this House, could look up at the gallery and see how, for example, the ambassadors of Israel and Palestine were sitting there, not side by side but well in the same row. It is possible to think many different things about the Middle East and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. We also do this here in the Swedish Parliament. We are constantly debating this, in the hope of getting closer to a solution. Sweden, as expressed in the government's foreign declaration, will work for regional detour and dialogue in the Middle East, and we are committed to good relations with both Israel and Palestine. Sweden, Mr President, will continue to be the population-oriented country that is constantly working for an open and democratic world. Sweden will continue to be a country where different sides of a conflict can meet to negotiate and create peaceful solutions to their conflict, a country where ambassadors from conflict countries can sit in the same row in Parliament's gallery and listen to this foreign policy debate. That country will continue to be Sweden.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-595	Mr President, Kenneth Forslund. Foreign policy debates are a bit special. In foreign policy, there is an intrinsic value in bringing together a national vision. For many things, we can also be united around our positions. However, there are areas where we want to do a little more. In the foreign policy declaration, the Foreign Minister says that Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or attack strikes another EU country or a Nordic country. We also expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. Yes, it is European cooperation. But Europe is not a military organisation. The natural question then becomes: when does the step become natural to have a military alliance with many EU countries in NATO?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-598	Mr President, I would like to For me as a social democrat, I do not think it will be natural. NATO means a number of different things. Among other things, NATO's strategic planning is based on the possession of nuclear weapons by some Member States. I do not want to be involved in turning Sweden into a nuclear country. Another reason is that in the NATO Statute, Article 5, there is a system of automatic defence of each other in the event of attack. The way to decide when to come to each other's defence works badly with the Swedish tradition. I do not rule it out in any way. On the contrary, I absolutely believe that Sweden may both receive help from and provide help to other countries. But it should be done after a decision is made here in the Swedish Parliament. It's important to me as a social democrat.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-601	Mr President, I would like to It is right here in the Swedish Parliament that we can make such a decision, to join a military alliance such as NATO. It's obvious and nothing strange. It is much like when we decided to join the European Union. For those who may not be as old as Mr Forslund and the undersigned, let us remind you that until 1990 there was an iron resistance on the part of the Social Democrats to the approach of the then EC, the European Community. I am rather reminded of small adjustments in wording, which we can hear in this foreign policy debate and which go again. I sense that this is the first step for the Social Democrats to shine on the door. I look forward to taking the next step.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-603	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I have to disappoint Mr Rothenberg when I say that I think he is currently engaged in wishful thinking. I understand the illustration of the attitude of the Social Democrats over time towards the European Union, the former European Community. But Hans Rothenberg pulls that line a little too straight and forgets the discussion that existed already in the 1960s within the Social Democrats and the labour movement about Sweden's relationship with the EC and the possibility of joining at that time. Over time, there were various reasons why we did not want to join the European Community. What happened at the height of 1990 and the reversal made by Sweden and the Social Democrats was the collapse of Eastern Communism and the removal of the Iron Curtain through Europe. It created completely new conditions for Swedish EU membership.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-606	Mr President, I would like to My reply to the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee concerns precisely the Iron Curtain that fell and democracy. In our vicinity there is a country, Belarus, which has not yet achieved democratic status. It is a country which still applies the death penalty and which still lacks democracy. The OSSE has been observing elections in the country since 1994. Not one of the recommendations made by the OSSE has been implemented. At the same time, during the previous term of office, the EU abolished sanctions against Belarus. The Swedish government did not stand up for democracy in Belarus. Mr President, I would like to I wonder what Kenneth G. Forslund thinks about this. I also wonder what Kenneth G. Forslund is prepared to do for democracy in Belarus.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-610	Mr President, I would like to I am just as frustrated as Margareta Cederfelt about the situation in Belarus, as I would rather say about what was previously called Belarus. I've been there on several occasions. I have collaborated with opponents and visited them in their captivity. I agree with the criticism of all the lack of human rights and democracy that exists in Belarus. The EU chose to remove sanctions as part of a process; it said when sanctions were introduced that they would be reduced in case of improvements in Belarus. It is an approach we have in Europe. The sanctions, if I remember correctly, are not removed, but are suspended and can therefore be reintroduced if the EU wishes to increase the criticism and pressure on Belarus.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-612	Mr President, I would like to In that case, I wonder why the Swedish Government has not ensured that sanctions have been reintroduced. The death penalty is still there. Journalists are incarcerated. If I remember correctly, the journalists were actually released before an election. It is a common practice in Belarus. It's a regular occurrence. Then the journalists are picked up again. That's exactly what happens year after year. What does the Social Democracy intend to do to increase pressure on Belarus and President Lukasjenko? These are important issues, especially for a government that speaks hotly to support democracy. Here there is the opportunity to act firmly for democracy and for Europe's last dictatorship to fall.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-614	Mr President, I would like to Over the years, we have seen how Belarus and its dictatorial leaders have almost wavered between seeking support in Moscow and seeking support in Brussels. There has been a wavering between one moment being kind to the regime in Moscow and Russia and trying, at the next, to turn more towards Europe. That game is in progress. It is difficult to know exactly what we are going to do to bring about a lasting and sustainable change in Belarus. I think it is important that those of us who are active in Swedish parties here in Parliament and those around the democratic parts of Europe continue to support opposition and democratic movements in Belarus. This applies to politicians, journalists and others. Of course, the EU must also constantly monitor developments and comply with them.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-617	Mr President, I would like to The world faces fundamental challenges. These are challenges that can become problems if we do not deal with them properly. In the wake of climate change that is taking place in the face of an open curtain, the collective humanity must address the forthcoming need to cope with food security, to maintain global health with an ageing population, to have energy that is sufficient and works sustainably, and to have communications that work and associated security in the world. History shows that prosperity is best built on the foundations of the market economy and democracy. The free market economy was the trophy that communists and socialists wanted to catch in the last century. But when socialists have used the economy and foreign policy as an experimental box, it has always ended in the same way: with poverty and freedom, far away from the socialist slogans of the pamphlets and too close to what all concerned people call horrendous. In many countries, the end of democracy followed, and decades of abandonment became reality for hundreds of millions of people. It was people who were not lucky enough to live in the West. From the rubble of these unhealthy experiments, the market economy has risen and persisted. It does, however, look worse for democracy in the world. The organisation Freedom House has seen a global deterioration of both political rights and civil liberties between 2005 and 2018. An important insight is that democratic development cannot be taken for granted. Neither can democracy. Mr President, I would like to Not only violence and terrorism are enemies of democracy. Democracy is also challenged by both the red left and the brown populist movements. They call themselves both nationalists, either conservative or simply some kind of right. In fact, they are neither since the nation is the tool and context they use as their political arena. Conservativeism is a homemade brew of borrowed feathers, and the right is a label that these authoritarian forces stick to themselves. Losers are democracy as such, but above all all all those people who slowly but uncertainly see their freedom of expression strangled by those who want a monopoly on their opinion. This is happening in both East and West. In an uncertain and fast-moving world, it is necessary to pay attention to extremism and radicalisation. A world with more liberal democracies would be a safer and richer world for Sweden and the Swedish population as well as for the rest of the world's population. Having said that, human rights and democratic development are objectives in themselves, not just means of achieving security and prosperity. Mr President, I would like to Technology development is fast and not always predictable. Artificial intelligence is an example where target images and results often look completely different. AI developed under internationally controlled and regulated forms can form unimagined opportunities for people and humanity. However, AI in the hands of destructive and authoritarian forces can offer the opposite. An important interest in Sweden's foreign policy is our common prosperity. Swedish competitiveness, innovation and trade are a prerequisite for jobs and growth. Here foreign policy must help to safeguard the market economy and increase the exchange of goods, services and ideas. An ambitious free trade agenda and standing up for the global exchange of goods and services is a strength. In the absence of common international rules, the power of the strong becomes the law. Few players are better placed than the EU to defend the rule-based and multilateral world order. The EU should therefore put a great deal of energy and effort into pursuing an ambitious free trade agenda with modern agreements and in standing up to European protectionism. With one of Sweden's most important trading partners – the UK – now leaving the EU, it is in Sweden's and the EU's absolute interest to find a sustainable and long-term free trade community. Similarly, the unfortunately weaker reciprocity in the area of trade between the EU and the US must be re-established into a functioning transatlantic link. It must be in the interests of both parties to be able to find a common understanding of what one has common interests in. This is particularly true in relation to China. Equal rules and conditions must apply in exchanges with China. The EU, together with the US and other like-minded countries, must increase the pressure on China to open up its markets. Chinese companies in our countries must be examined with the same yardstick as our own in China in terms of competition, subsidies, ownership and corruption. Free trade must be two-way. In Chinese, reciprocity is called huhui. Unfortunately, it is very rarely used in daily speech in China. Mr President, I would like to The major global challenges persist and need to be addressed. They can be handled if we want and make the right decisions. Market economy, trade and democracy are the keys to the good lives of future generations. If we lose these keys, the world is in danger of going back. There, Sweden can and will always be the world's best locksmith.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-629	Mr President, I would like to Finally, it has become my turn in this foreign policy debate to get things moving! I would like to take this opportunity during my speech to highlight a question of fate, perhaps our most important international cooperation and how we build a richer and safer world. Those of you who have heard me before in committee will probably know what this is all about. Mr President, I would like to My colleague Kerstin Lundgren has already raised the question of fate in her speech. She talked about the climate threats and the importance of continuing not only to implement the commitments of the Paris Agreement, but also to consider how we in the European circle and a coalition of constructive and willing parties are strengthening the commitments so that we can meet the climate challenge. It is simply not something we can pass on to future generations. We have a responsibility to push for international action. We also have a responsibility to reduce our own emissions in Sweden. If we are to do this, it is precisely rich well-developed countries that must reduce their climate impact. However, I would like to raise the third leg of Swedish climate policy, climate aid. It is amazing that there is broad agreement in this House from right to left that we should have climate aid, but I think the time is ripe for us also to talk about what climate aid we should have. Of course, we're going to have to work on climate adaptation. I have no objection to our contributing to international funds and multilateral work. But it is also worth considering if we could not streamline and focus climate aid. I will not take up all the thoughts I have about this, but I would like to mention a few examples of what could be done to change things up. I and the Center Party believe that it is important that we see a greater element of private collaboration and innovative forms of funding to change up Swedish climate aid. We think it would be good if we increased the funding for setting up small and medium-sized enterprises with green new technologies. We would like to see if Sida could develop a kind of one-stop shop for business and for those who want to be involved in speeding up this. As I said, this is important in order for us to have climate aid that not only makes a difference on paper but actually also leads to emissions reductions worldwide. Mr President, I would like to The underlying principles of what we want to do with climate aid are to focus on what we do best, on what has the most impact and on what maybe no one else does. We believe that these fundamental principles in the Center Party would have a greater impact on the entire development work in Swedish development and development policy. We need to think about what the Swedish added value is, not necessarily in the sense of what serves Sweden best, but rather where we have to go because no one else wants to contribute. This can, for example, apply to gender equality and education for girls and boys. We see that great and strong forces are backing away from it. It is more important than ever that Sweden is there. This could be about doing what we think has the most effect. If we believe that there are things that we do well, there must also reasonably be things that we do more or less well. This probably requires a tough discussion and thinking for the Swedish development community and politics. But it is crucial both for the continued existence of the internationally unique Swedish willingness to provide assistance and for the aid to do the most good for the people we want to help and the communities we want to help build. I also said that I would talk a little about what builds a richer and safer world. Here, too, I will not be able to take up everything. It is not unimportant that we should also include trade policy. If aid and development policy are part of building a richer and more secure world, we know that it is free trade and increased economic freedom and empowerment that build both safer and safer individuals and prosperity development. This helps to combat world poverty and lift people out of it. Sweden should work within the EU for free trade and for the trade agreements we enter into to contribute to greater sustainability and strengthen the values on which the Union is based. For example, we can work to make the sustainability chapters of our trade agreements binding by calling for ratification of certain international conventions. It is also possible to add more possibilities to suspend contracts in the event of a breach by a counterparty. Mr President, I would like to As a member of the Nordic Council and a true Northist, I must draw attention to Nordic cooperation. I was very pleased that the Foreign Minister stated in the Foreign Affairs Declaration that we should continue to strive for the vision that the Council of Ministers has set for the Nordic region to be the most integrated region in the world by 2030. I am pleased that the new Minister for Cooperation, who was here earlier today, has also promised that she will push her fellow ministers to think Nordic in their daily work. Mr President, I would like to I think this is exactly what is needed if we want the Nordic region to become the world's most integrated region and Nordic citizens should not encounter obstacles when they want to build their lives and their businesses, educate themselves or meet their partners across the Nordic border. It is not more Nordic politics that is required, but it is day politics, climate policy, security policy and foreign policy that will become more Nordic from the beginning. Mr President, I would like to As I have said before, there is nothing to lose but everything to gain from Nordic cooperation. That is precisely why I believe that this may be our most important international cooperation.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-644	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In his speech, Håkan Svenneling already highlighted the great economic inequality that exists in the world, but since inequality brings with it such enormous problems for the people who are vulnerable, I choose to continue on the same subject. The world's 2,153 billionaires own more than the poorest 60 percent of the world's population. The 22 richest men own more than all women in Africa – as if these 22 men have worked hard and worked more than all women in Africa! It's time to break the myth that those who are rich are because they've gone to great lengths and worked more. They're rich because the system is rigged for them. What, then, are the consequences of these abyssed income gaps? For example, those with low incomes receive lower health care, education and working conditions, and less space in society. People are denied the right to power and influence over their own life situation. In the tracks of inequality follows ill health, violence and sexual abuse. In many countries, people are not even allowed to engage in civil society organisations or demonstrate. This leads to even worse living conditions for many, while the rich get richer. There are, however, solutions. It is possible to change and distribute the world's resources more fairly, and we must do so now. Among other things, we must pay what it costs to produce a product in such a way that all workers, both women and men, at all stages receive decent working conditions and wages. We must ensure that the entire production, including transport, is ecologically and climately sustainable. We must ensure that all people are allowed to make their voice heard. We must ensure that everyone has the right to control their own body and sexuality. The Left Party therefore wants, among other things, to have fair and fair trade agreements, to introduce laws in accordance with human rights due diligence, to stop tax evasion, to introduce additional climate aid and to invest more in SRHR. Mr President, I would like to As long as the harmful income gaps for humanity persist, Sweden must contribute through aid. It is our responsibility as a rich country to do what we can to avoid hunger, sickness and oppression. That is why it is important that at least 1% of our budget goes to aid. Sweden is the best in the class when it comes to using its aid effectively, according to OECD-Dac. Nevertheless, there are parties in Parliament who claim that we are only throwing out money completely without control and should therefore reduce aid. So there are parties that first lower taxes and provide cleaning allowances for the rich and then have the nerve to say that there is no money for Swedish welfare and that the aid should therefore be reduced. But so far the Swedish people have not gone for that scam. A majority of those living in Sweden still believe that aid is important and should remain at the same level as today. In addition to the obvious of, among other things, additional climate aid, humanitarian aid, aid to health care and so on, aid is needed for those who stand up for human rights. When we are reached by reports of shot or imprisoned journalists, banned newspapers or military action against demonstrators, we have a responsibility to act. Russia is often highlighted as a warning example of how democracy and freedom of association are restricted. The best-known example is probably the so-called agent law that forces opinion-forming organisations with foreign funding to register as foreign agents. Limited freedom of assembly, state-led civil society organisations and false accusations against scientists and opponents are additional tools used by the Putin regime to silence human rights defenders. An example of this strategy is the Russian scientist, historian and human rights activist Jurij Dmitrijev, who for 30 years has mapped out the victims of Stalin's terror in Karelia. This research is not only important for us to understand how dangerous authoritarian societies are. In addition, many families, including Swedish and Finnish, have clarified the fates of missing relatives through his activities. One of these families is my own. Last autumn I visited Sandarmokh in Karelia, a place of mass graves for those who fell victim to Stalin's terror. One of the thousands there is my grandfather's brother Matti Posio. The family thought he had tried to go to America with a ship that then sank. But it turned out that he had gone from poor northern Finland to the Soviet Union to work in the forest. In Petrozavodsk, Matti got married and had two children before he was considered anti-Stalinism and sentenced to death by neck shots. Thousands of families had not learned of the fate of their relatives unless Dmitrijev had researched the remaining documents. Thanks to Dmitrijev, I have been able to meet Matti grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Mr President, I would like to For the Left Party, democracy and human rights are not negotiable. Those at the forefront of the fight to protect democracy and the human rights of all deserve our backing. That is why the Left Party wants to strengthen support for human rights defenders. It is difficult to lift all solutions to the consequences of the abyssed income gap in six minutes. These were just some of the Left Party's proposals for an equal, equal society for all and not just for the richest.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-659	Mr President, I would like to I have been listening to Yasmine Posios's speech on economic divides. But I haven't heard her say a single word about income, about the importance of making money and about the importance of entrepreneurship. I have not heard a single word about supporting women in setting up businesses in order to take control of their economy. Market economy is what has lifted people out of poverty. I have not heard Yasmine Posio mention a single word about this, Mr President, and I therefore wonder: what does Yasmine Posio want to do to enable people to have an economy, to make a living and to cope with their everyday lives?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-661	Mr President, I would like to Margareta Cederfelt claims that I have not lifted any single proposal as to what to do to ensure that people can earn income. Then she must have failed to listen when I said that we must pay what it costs to produce a product in such a way that all workers, both women and men, at all stages receive decent working conditions and wages. That is where the problem lies: D is not so that the seamstresses in the factories that produce the goods we buy and the clothes we wear have the nicest wages. We get a report after report that this is not the case. It's the same with our cell phones. The poor children who work in the mines in the DRC, for example, receive a salary that cannot be lived on while we happily run around and call with our phones. If we make sure we start paying what it actually costs to get a product, Margareta Cederfelt will see that wages are rising.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-664	Mr President, I would like to If the cost of what is produced is paid, then people have the opportunity to make a living. This is what Yasmine Posio says. But here an ingredient is missing, and it's called a market economy. It's called entrepreneurship. The women I have met, especially in Africa that Yasmine Posio talked about here, have been able to tell about how they started businesses, seen it grow and been able to make a living and get a position. Their joy is unmistakeable. However, I have not heard Yasmine Posio say a single word about this, Mr President, and I very much regret that Yasmine Posio does not see this as a good opportunity. By the way, what does it mean to pay what it costs? Where is the market economy thinking that brings prosperity?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-667	Mr President, I would like to The last time Margareta Cederfelt and I were up debating, she asked what the Left Party thought about small businesses and women's entrepreneurship. Then I replied that we are positive about this. It is therefore a bit sad to hear that Margareta Cederfelt does not remember this. It is precisely companies that produce the goods that I am talking about. If companies made sure to pay what it actually costs to have employees of their companies, Margareta Cederfelt would see that things got much better. But companies do not want to take this responsibility. That is why we must put forward proposals on, for example, human rights due diligence, in which we demand that companies ensure that people receive wages that they can actually manage. It is only then that we can reach a society where more people are included and have a reasonable salary that can be lived on.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-670	Mr President, I would like to All humans are born free and equal. Equal rights should apply to everyone regardless of their skin colour, gender, sexual orientation, religion, etc. Respect for the equal, unique and inviolable value of all people and respect for human rights and freedoms is the basis for a better world. These are the values on which democratic and successful societies rest. Unfortunately, the lack of respect for these values is great in many countries and a major reason why millions of people are on the run and persecuted. Intolerance to differences has increased. In particular, freedom of religion, which is a fundamental human right, is being curtailed. Power-full and corrupt autocrats, non-democratic regimes and Islamist armed groups hold back democratic forces and govern societies with violence. They fertilize hatred between different ethnicities and religious groups and impose on society patriarchal structures that hold women back and contribute to armed conflict, hunger, poverty and misery. Mr President, I would like to The world has become increasingly insecure. Several European countries, including Sweden, have been attacked by Islamic terror that attacks our open societies. Several thousand European citizens have joined the terrorist group Islamic State in Syria and Iraq and fought for an Islamic caliphate. Some terrorists have returned to the EU, and the rest want to return. Those who have returned deny crime. They represent a major threat to the security and security of the EU. These people, who have committed war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, must be prosecuted. The EU should act jointly and vigorously against these destructive forces. In order to increase security and security within the Union, the EU should make further efforts on Frontex and Europol. Military cooperation within the Union should also be stepped up in order to resist external threats. In addition, the EU should take greater responsibility for being a global player in foreign and security affairs. A stronger Europe with more influence in the world can help to increase democracy and stability, prevent conflicts and combat terrorism. Mr President, I would like to Intolerance, racism and the lack of respect for human dignity are increasing. Right-wing, left-wing and Islamic groups fertilize hatred and pose threats to our open society. Anti-Semitism is a growing problem in the EU. Even in Sweden, Jews are subjected to harassment, threats and violence. Jewish meeting places and buildings are exposed to vandalism, and many Jews feel afraid, threatened, and insecure in their lives. It is not acceptable for Jews in Malmö to move from the municipality due to harassment and insecurity. Sweden and the EU should act vigorously against anti-Semitism, racism and discrimination. Mr President, I would like to The future existence of Christians in the Middle East is under threat. Each year the Open Doors organization presents a report listing the countries where the persecution of Christians is greatest. This year's report notes that the persecution of Christians in the world has steadily increased in recent decades. In the 50 countries listed, some 260 million Christians are subjected to systematic persecution. Last year the British Foreign Office also produced a report stating that Christians are the most persecuted in the world. The report notes that the persecution of Christians in more and more places can be defined as genocide. We have already seen that the Islamic State, the IS, committed this heinous crime in Syria and Iraq in 2014. In view of these worrying developments and the risk of the complete disappearance of the Christian population in the Middle East and some African countries, these issues should be given the highest priority in foreign policy. Mr President, I would like to Freedom of religion and belief is a human right that applies to everyone everywhere. The EU should, to a greater extent, impose sanctions on individuals and nations who violate or abuse human rights even when the freedom of religion and belief is restricted. This will enhance the protection of the individual's freedom to choose religion or belief and help protect vulnerable ethnic minorities.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-683	Mr President, I would like to The foreign policy debate is a great opportunity for us Members of Parliament to raise our own and our parties' concerns, and it is not easy to choose the theme. There is so much that deserves to be lifted up. I would like to devote my minutes to the dangerous wave of restrictions on democracy that washes over the world when the space for those who fight for human rights is increasingly decreasing. I could talk long and well about China's worrying development in an increasingly authoritarian direction. Peaceful demonstrations in Hong Kong are brutally suppressed. Millions of Uighurs in Xinjiang are displaced, held in re-education camps and denied their human rights. It would be no problem to devote all the time to describing how important continued Swedish involvement is in the issue of nuclear disarmament and to highlight the importance of the forthcoming NPT conference leading to real results. Nuclear weapons are a real threat to humanity's very existence. Sweden has chosen not to sign the Nuclear Ban Treaty but will still push hard to achieve results for disarmament and continue to push forward in all the forums we can to achieve the goal we all have here of a nuclear-free world. I feel that I should devote speaking time to highlighting the situation in Myanmar, because the abuse of Rohingyes must not be forgotten or carried on with impunity. It is a terrible humanitarian crisis that is still going on on the border between Bangladesh and Myanmar. Shouldn't I mention Cambodia too? It is a country where democracy is dismantled step by step and where Hun Sen forbids opposition, imprisons opponents and refuses to allow the will of the people to govern the country's development. There are many areas of urgency to choose from. Although I have mentioned most of the misery and troubles so far, there is, of course, another side of the coin. Hundreds of millions have been lifted out of poverty. Never before have so many girls gone to school. Illiteracy is decreasing. Conflicts end, and reconciliation between former enemies grows into lasting peace. Most of the Millennium Development Goals were met, and now we have agreed on new development targets in Agenda 2030. Although the challenges are enormous, there is a possible way forward. Mr President, I would like to All this I could devote my six minutes in the speaker's chair to. Instead, however, I would like to highlight an area which is all too rarely given room in Parliament, in the social debate and when we discuss international politics: men's violence against women. Men's violence against women is a global scourge. Sexual violence is used as a weapon, a disgusting weapon, in armed conflicts. But it's not just about wars and conflicts. It's about a daily life that's ruined. In South Africa, a woman is murdered every three hours. In India, 40,000 women are raped a year. Each year 96,000 women are murdered. If we kept a minute's silence for every woman murdered, we'd be in trouble for four weeks straight. This violence must stop. I am pleased to see that in country after country this issue is becoming more and more the focus. For example, in South Africa massive demonstrations by women have led to new laws being passed and norms slowly changing. But it is a laborious and difficult job. That's why it's so important. I am very proud that we have a feminist foreign policy that focuses on the issue of women's and girls' rights. It is excellent, and the key is to work to increase women's representation, strengthen their rights and ensure that resources are targeted to reach the entire population and not just half. It is about implementing Resolution 1325 on the role of women in creating peace. It's about the SRHR. It is about seeing women's and girls' rights as human rights and not dabbling with it when the winds blow in another direction. But this is not just about this. It is also a question of a change of attitude that must take place, standards that must be changed and stereotypical gender roles that must be broken. Men's violence against women is not a woman's issue. Men must also fight for equality. Men must refrain from violence against women. Men must dare and want to break the standard that makes us live in an unequal society. This must be done in the home, in everyday life, in working life, in public. This must be seen in the legislation, and, Mr President, it also needs to happen in the foreign policy debate in the Swedish Parliament.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-698	Mr President, I would like to I can only agree that men's violence against women is a problem that must stop. There are no forgiving exceptions in any way. I would like to highlight the legislative change that has been made in Russia, where men's right to abuse women in marriage has been legalised. This must be stopped! It must be effectively combated at all levels, for example within the UN. What does Olle Thorell think that the Social Democracy should do to help Russia remove the legislation that legalises the abuse of women within the family? I would like to stress the importance of this issue.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-700	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Margareta Cederfelt, for an important aspect of this. The impunity of men who beat women in Russia is outrageous and must be an issue that engages every humanist and democrat in and outside Russia. After all, they have also received a lot of international criticism for this. Sweden is pushing ahead. Ann Linde was in Russia last week talking to her counterpart there. She raises issues of human rights, and as a fanbearer of a feminist foreign policy, I take it for granted that she also raises issues of women's human rights in Russia. In the UN Security Council, we worked to ensure that the gender perspective was constantly included in every document that came from the Security Council, that we should have female rapporteurs and so on. Pressure on Russia is the only thing that can help in this context.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-704	Mr President, I would like to Yes, pressure on Russia is the only thing that can help. It must be a proper, solid press, and there all the forums on the international stage must be used, including the European Union. I have not read to date any documents stating that the EU has pressured Russia to end the legalisation of abuse of women within the family. Is this a question that Olle Thorell is prepared to work for the government to run? What else will Olle Thorell do to put pressure on Russia to remove legislation and ensure that women in Russia too are not abused in marriage?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-706	Mr President, I would like to We have different forums to operate in. Margareta Cederfelt is doing a good job in the OSSE. I lead the Human Rights Group here in Parliament. The government operates at all levels for a feminist foreign policy in all its aspects. The pressure on Russia must take place in all bilateral contacts. It must not just be about the international abuse of Ukraine, the annexation of the Crimean Peninsula and security policy matters. It must also be about human rights in a broader perspective, and there women's rights are extremely important.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-708	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Olle Thorell for her commitment and the priority shown by the honourable Member by raising this issue. I am grateful for that, and the Christian Democrats are pleased that they really want to fight this. One of the mandates given by the government in May 2016 was to appoint a Special Envoy against trafficking in human beings. This is in parallel with what we are talking about, because the aim is precisely to strengthen the protection of women and children. However, the mandate expires in December 2020, and I would like to know whether the Government Party intends to extend the term of office or whether we will see it come to an end by the end of the year. There are a few months left, but I hope we can get an answer here today.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-710	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Marcus Jonsson, for raising an important issue too! Trafficking in human beings, trafficking, for various purposes, whether it is prostitution or exploitation of labour, is a high priority for my party and for the government. In fact, I do not know whether the mandate for the work against human trafficking will be extended later this year. But I know that the government does not stop thinking that this is an important issue, so I would not be surprised if it were decided to extend the term of office.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-711	Mr President, I would like to We were told earlier today that an ambassador was appointed to coordinate the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs against organised crime. The crime of human trafficking really needs to be prosecuted. It is estimated that only trafficking aimed at sexual exploitation amounts to USD 150 billion annually. This is therefore really something that I hope the government will proceed with. In the mission given to the ambassador, I also hope that the fight against trafficking in human beings will be taken into account when talking about organised crime.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-712	Mr President, I would like to It is absolutely the case that organised crime has tentacles in all possible illegal activities. Sex trafficking is a vital part of this, and it is a large capital. The risks are rather small because in many countries penalties are much lower for smuggling people than for smuggling drugs, for example. This is something that the government will continue to push for. We have good examples in Sweden that we try to work for internationally, such as the Swedish Sex Purchase Act and the consent law. These are things that we highlight. After all, it is not only a question of setting up traffickers, but also of legislating nationally to make it much more difficult for them.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-714	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I will focus on three areas. If the time against the assumption is enough, I'm going to go into more. My first question is about the Corona virus – a social disease, which is new in the form the virus has today. There is, of course, a need for effective control of the spread of infection, and here we have the WHO as our heart. Unfortunately, not all countries are included in the WHO. I am thinking of Taiwan, a neighbouring country to China that is not included in the WHO. If the spread of infection is to be effectively combated, all countries need to be able to sit at the table. I therefore very much hope that the Swedish Government will help to push for Taiwan to be included in the WHO. The next issue I would like to raise concerns something that has been mentioned here before: trafficking in human beings or, more accurately, trafficking in human beings. Slave trade still exists today; nothing has stopped. I think of the slave trade that takes place on the lake, with ships sailing or driving around in other ways with, usually, men working in the fishing industry – ships that can be gone for six months, a year or two without adding. On board are bought men, and also women for that matter. However, there are international tools to overcome this: Cape Town Agreement. A few months ago, in Torremolinos, a Council of Ministers was arranged on behalf of the Spanish Government together with the UN. All Nordic governments were represented except Sweden. Why? Why was the Swedish government missing at the negotiating table when it was about the implementation of Cape Town Agreement? I hope and expect that the Swedish Government will be at the table when there is a new meeting at the beginning of June, this time in Lisbon. It is a disgrace when there is trafficking in human beings, and this is something that Sweden must stand up to stop. The Cape Town Agreement also needs to be signed by Sweden. The next issue I would like to raise is Ukraine. Ukraine has been involved here before. I believe that the issue of Russian aggression against Ukraine is important and must not be silenced. Six years have now passed since Russia began its aggression, after Ukrainian citizens had expressed their wish for membership of the European Union. The result? Yes, there was Russian aggression, an annexation of Crimea and a war in the southeast, in the Donetsk-Luhansk region. The OSSE is present with observers. A large number of statements have been made around the world and attempts have been made to press for Russia to stop, but the aggression is under way. The silence is starting to subside. Fewer and fewer countries are taking up Russian aggression from the speaker's seats. Fewer and fewer media are writing. There is more and more silence. Of course, Russia knows that. Russia acts accordingly. You have the time. It is high time that we did not allow time to silence ourselves but that we continued to act in order for Ukraine to be able to rule over its entire territory again. Now I have two minutes left, so I will move on to this issue. Russia is acting very strongly in the OSCE region, especially in the parts belonging to the former Soviet Union. Russia has not let go of its grip. We can see the European Monetary Union, which is being built ever stronger and is being used as an instrument to push the countries into the sphere of Russia. We can also see what it looks like in the former Soviet states. I am thinking of Moldova, Transnistria and Georgia with Abkhazia and South Ossetia. I am thinking of the prolonged conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan concerning Nagorno-Karabakh. Russia is a warmaker and troublemaker. We must work towards this unison, and that is why I am pleased to hear that the government is raising the issue of Russia's aggression. But here we have to hold on and not let go. New partners and more forums need to be found to address this issue. Indeed, if we are to have peace in our region, we must also work more closely with Russia and persuade Russia to respect the rights of other countries. I have just come back from an election observation in Azerbaijan, where it was very clear how the former Soviet state is adversely affecting a country even today. There's corruption. There is a lack of freedom of assembly, freedom of the press and freedom of expression. Civil society is broken. The former rule of the Soviet Union persists and has negative effects on all the countries that were included as Soviet states. It has been many years since the collapse, but unfortunately there are a large number of people who are still suffering and cannot either decide over their own lives or, at worst, give future generations an opportunity for a good life.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-730	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish government has a rather difficult time recognising genocide. I would like to mention in particular the genocide of various minorities in the Ottoman Empire, which was in fact recognised by the Riksdag on 11 March 2010, when the Parliament voted in favour of a reservation informing the government that Sweden should recognise the genocide. However, despite the fact that ten years have passed since then, the government has not yet recognised this genocide, which began more than nine decades ago. A number of parliamentarians and parliaments around the world have chosen to recognise the genocide. However, a handful, mainly Turkish, historians associated in one way or another with the Turkish state have claimed that the genocide has not taken place or that it cannot be described as genocide. Since the end of the genocide, the Turkish State has actively denied it, and it has tried, among other things, to persuade other countries to do the same. Even today, it is forbidden and punishable to claim that the genocide has taken place. Why can't the Swedish government be better than that? We have a government that claims to be a good force against all crimes committed against humanity, but at the same time the government finds it difficult to recognise genocide. Mr President, I would like to We also have the genocide committed by the Islamic State. In January 2016, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe approved a resolution on travelling combatants in Syria and Iraq declaring the terrorist group Islamic State's campaign of terror in recent years as genocide. Similar declarations have come from large assemblies such as the United Nations and the European Parliament. For years, the Islamic State has brutally and ruthlessly murdered, raped, plundered and enslaved people who have fallen into its path. Many of the groups affected by the Islamic State, such as Yazidians, Assyrians and Armenians, belong to the same peoples who suffered during the genocide in the Ottoman Empire. The systematic persecution of ethnic and religious minorities by the Islamic State in and around the areas controlled has rightly shocked the civilized world. For example, it has kidnapped hundreds of Christian Assyrians and forced them to live under terrible oppression in the Islamic State's own-handedly proclaimed caliphate. IS terrorists have likewise placed large numbers of Yazidian women in sexual slavery, while men and women who were not considered good as sex slaves have been killed and dumped in mass graves. Mr President, I would like to The Islamic State's campaign of terror was aimed at leaving behind a not only human but also cultural desert. Its aim has been to destroy the history of other groups, their religious identity and all that these groups have left of their cultural heritage. One has considered one's own radical faith to be above all others. The government must show that it is resisting what is happening today to other minorities. Today's Turkish policy is hitting the large Kurdish minority in Turkey hard. When a country does not have to take responsibility for previous atrocities, it is easy to continue with them. Several countries around the world acknowledge the terrible genocide following the Islamic state, and in Greece it is even forbidden to deny it. Sweden should not be worse, but should recognise both the genocide that took place in the Ottoman Empire and the genocide of the Islamic State. Mr President, I would like to The fact that the Swedish Government does not recognise either the genocide under the Ottoman Empire or the genocide following the destruction of the Islamic State is terrible, and it is contrary to what the Swedish Government claims to be, namely a government that stands up for human rights and peace. Not recognising these genocides is a great betrayal of those affected and of their survivors. Mr President, I would like to There is much more that I would like to say in the debate to stress the importance of recognising these terrible genocides, but I choose to stay here.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-741	Mr President, I would like to On 4 December last year, human rights activist Aminatou Haidar received the Right Livelihood Award, or the alternative Nobel Prize, at Cirkus in Stockholm. Aminatou has dedicated his entire adult life to fighting for the rights of the Western Sahara. She has risked her life, suffered torture and been in prison only because of her peaceful struggle for the rights of the Western Sahara to their own country. When Aminatou came home, many people wanted to pay tribute to her, but it stopped the Moroccan police. The Moroccan occupying power exposes the Sahrawi population to constant terror and repression without the intervention of the UN Force Minurso – it simply lacks a mandate to monitor human rights. Morocco's illegal occupation of Western Sahara is now in its 45th year. It is an occupation that is contrary to the wishes of the UN and to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. A fundamental reason for the occupation is Western Sahara's rich supply of natural resources, such as phosphate and fish. Against this background, it is double standards when the EU claims to be committed to the UN-led process of Western Sahara while giving the green light to the continued plundering of the occupying power. In January 2019, the EU voted for an EU-Morocco trade agreement. Later, a fisheries agreement was also voted through. This was done despite the fact that the agreements are contrary to the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Court of Justice of the European Union has ruled in two unequivocal judgments that the EU's agreement with Morocco must not include Sahrawi goods unless it has been approved by the Sahrawi population, and that has not happened. Sweden abstained on the trade agreement and voted as the only country in the EU against the fisheries agreement. Sweden should of course also have voted against the trade agreement, but it was good that Sweden voted against the fisheries agreement. It is now important that Sweden continues to press in the EU. Sweden, for example, could demand that the fisheries agreement between the EU and Morocco be cancelled with reference to the EU Court of Justice and thus stand up for international law in full. Sweden should also act so that the AP Funds withdraw their investments in companies operating on occupied land. The Swedish government must also ensure that Swedish companies do not shop or operate in the occupied Western Sahara. At the end of October, together with seven Members, I visited the Sahrawi refugee camps in the Sahara desert and the part of the Western Sahara under Western Sahara's own control. We were impressed by how well the camps were organized and by the fact that the Sahrawis managed to build a functioning state in exile. However, we became painfully aware that the people in the camps are very vulnerable. Food supplies from the UN and aid organisations are simply not enough. The need for aid is great. Regardless of who we met during our visit, the President or representatives of civil society, Sweden received much appreciation. But there was also great disappointment that the Swedish government has not fulfilled the Riksdag's decision to recognise the Sahrawi state. Very little is happening in the negotiation process. The international community has so far failed. If nothing happens soon, there is an increased risk that the armed conflict will resume and the ceasefire will be broken. UN envoy Horst Horst resigned in May 2019. Sweden must require the appointment of a new envoy without delay. It is also important that Sweden does its utmost to press ahead in the UN and in other international contexts so that the referendum decided by the UN, which should have taken place back in 1992, will finally come about. The people of Western Sahara have waited long enough. Mr President, I would like to Another people who have been under occupation for decades is the Palestinian people. Mr Trump recently presented his peace plan, a plan which had been drawn up without the participation of the Palestinians. The plan is not a solution but rather helps to deepen the crisis and make the possibility of a two-state solution more difficult. Trumps's plan is in fact a plan to consolidate Israel's power and occupation. It is an attempt to approve all violations of international law afterwards. If you draw up a plan with only the Israeli side, a long-term peace will never be built. Another people who for decades have been subjected to persecution and harassment by various regimes is the Kurdish people. In Turkey, for example, democratically elected mayors of Kurdish cities have been deposed and replaced by regime-friendly people. Erdo中an has systematically tried to silence all opposition, and politicians from the left-wing party HDP have been imprisoned. Turkey's military attack in autumn 2019 in north-eastern Syria was condemned as a violation of international law. There is now an ethnic cleansing in the area, as Turkey has begun to force Syrian refugees to move in while the civilian population is being terrorized, kidnapped and murdered. We must constantly stand up for the Kurdish people and protest against the Turkish abuses. Minorities are being oppressed around the world. And a people who have suffered tremendous suffering are the Uighurs in China. Hundreds of thousands have been detained in so-called re-education camps where they have been subjected to torture and abuse, according to Human Rights Watch. I am therefore pleased that there is broad agreement here in Parliament to condemn human rights violations in China. I would also like to stress the importance of pushing for an international commission of inquiry into China's abuse of human organs.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-753	Mr President, I would like to Foreign policy can easily become day-to-day politics. This is evident in a debate like this. However, foreign policy must not focus solely on what is now the current challenges. Twenty years ago, Russia was in a bloody war. Months of air raids and shootings by Grozny emptied the city of its population. When the victory was declared, Russian troops blew up buildings that, after all, remained. Then Vladimir Putin was the new acting president. He was an unknown acquaintance in the international arena. The outside world tried to talk to the Russian leader about the war in Chechnya. Madeleine Albright was the Secretary of State of the United States. After her first meeting with Putin, she stated: It was not possible to change Putin's attitude, not one millimeter. Mr President, I would like to Tage Danielsson dictated: Anyone who doesn't look back as he moves forward must watch out. The war in Syria is a reminder of the war in Chechnya. Once again, Russian bombers and artillery giants are destroying cities and killing lives. But now, as then, the answer from Moscow is to fight terrorists. What lessons could we have learned from Mr Putin's actions? Of course Putin, and many with him, has carefully studied the West and how we have acted – not to mention what we have not done. Barack Obamas's red line became a clear mark for the end of interventions. Donald Trumps's betrayal of the Kurds has reinforced the belief that we are living in a new world order. The Western world is weaker than it used to be, and that is a problem. This is a major concern for those who believe in democracy. Mr President, I would like to Europe is a showcase for democracy, prosperity and human rights. Our continent is proof that dictatorships can become democracies and that enmity and oppression can become freedom and reconciliation. This amazing development is the history of Europe, but it does not start with success but with devastation. We must remind ourselves that 75 years ago our continent was soaked in blood. Ashes and ruins were a dominant cityscape in land after country, and in this damaged continent a dividing line was drawn. Europe was divided between East and West. In the summer of 1947, the Germans had a food ration of a maximum of 1 550 calories per day per person. A year later, the Soviet Union came with its blockade of all roads, canals and railways to western Berlin. It was an attempt to crack the West by starving the population of the western districts. But to assist 2.2 million people in West Berlin, an air bridge was established. Every 90 seconds an aircraft landed or started in Berlin. Mr President, I would like to This shows three things: 55 years ago the German Christian Democrat statesman Konrad Adenauer said: We must do everything we can to ensure that the United States does not give up Europe. And we must do everything we can to make Europe more united. This is the great task we have as Europeans. This call is frighteningly topical today. Britain's departure from Europe is a real sorrow, not just because it weakens the Union. Brexit also calls into question the organised and democratic cooperation that the EU represents. Surely the EU can stand to be criticized. But we must admit that Europe without the EU would not have had its longest peace so far. Without this visionary project, there would not have been a collective democratic counter-police for the military dictatorships of Spain, Greece and Portugal as well as the Communist regimes of Eastern Europe. Mr President, I would like to When democratic states abandon their mission to safeguard human dignity, build a culture of reconciliation and stand up to tyrants, confidence in democracy as a form of government is eroded among all those who look at us with a desire for peace, freedom and human dignity. Swedish foreign policy must always have these ideals as perspectives, no matter what the epithet of a government gives up.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-770	Mr President, I would like to Swedish foreign policy has long had a strong focus on gender equality and women's and girls' rights. I know that as long as our government is led by Prime Minister Stefan Löfven and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs by Minister Ann Linde, there will be obvious priorities in the future as well. But it's not possible to drop focus for a single second. We have made great progress since the Beijing Conference 25 years ago. But let me be clear. Every generation of women must regain all victories again and again. It hasn't changed. So this year we are celebrating the 25th anniversary of the most progressive conference on women's rights. It is celebrated all over the world, and the United Nations Women's Conference in New York in March is expected to take place at the very sign of the celebration. We celebrate that maternal mortality has fallen and fewer women and girls are forced to marry and give birth to children and thus leave school. Every child who gets an education is a victory to be celebrated. Mr President, I would like to Last year we celebrated 25 years with the ICPD, the work of the United Nations Population Fund to enable everyone, but mainly girls, to have access to sexual and reproductive health. It happened in Nairobi, Kenya, and I was there. And what a celebration it was. I still shudder at the thought of many of the experiences I had the privilege of experiencing. I am pleased that the meeting in Nairobi is described as a success in several respects. But we must not content ourselves and forget the hard work that remains. I believe that we have perhaps the most important work ahead of us – the work of building bridges and alliances with those with whom we do not always work. We in the Nordic countries have long been good at creating relationships with those who think like us – like-minded countries. It is important, and of course we will continue to do so. But what is perhaps even more important is to build bridges and thus increase understanding of how and why those who do not think as we think and do. Here we have a job and a great lesson to do. Because if we don't, Trump and Putin will – more than happy. Mr President, I would like to I think we need to listen and then really hear what people who are different from us say. My former colleague and mentor often told me: Sara, we have two ears and a mouth. I think it's for a reason. I think my colleague was right. As a politician in parliament, it is not only a privilege to have the opportunity to travel and meet people. It is also an obligation to seize the opportunity of meeting people from different backgrounds. In an increasingly polarized world, where dissidents are not only restricted in many countries but are also imprisoned and murdered, we need to stand up for each other and speak for those who cannot. Unfortunately, today it is not only women who face major challenges. It is equally true for LGBT people and for all people who do not follow the norm. Extra vulnerable are transsexual women, who often have to put their lives to death. It is basically about deep-rooted standards and deep-rooted structures. Women's and girls' equal rights often tend to be simplified into economic self-determination and the right to participate on equal terms in elections, in working life and in school. It's an important key, but that's not all. Unfortunately, it is not as simple as that if only as many women as men are allowed to be in the rooms where decisions are made, everything is solved. Girls and women need to be given the same space in school, already in preschool. Women need to be given the same benefits in working life, and the unpaid work done needs to be highlighted. Above all, all the violence that men inflict on women every day must stop. The discussion about SRHR, sexual and reproductive health and rights, often lands in abortion. The right and access to safe and legal abortion is central. This right is threatened, not least by the work of Trump and his administration purposefully and focusedly. It is conservative forces in their worst form that are attacking women's rights. The government always stands up for access to legal and safe abortion, improved access to sex and cohabitation education and increased access to contraception. Having said that, it is important to emphasise that it is not enough. We know that's not enough. Sweden is working intensively to establish contacts, formal and informal, at all levels to ensure that all women in the world are covered by the rights that we Swedish women may have come to take for granted. But it concerns so much more. Here I would like to mention endometriosis. Endometriosis is a terrible chronic pain disorder. In Sweden, 200 000 women are estimated to suffer from it. Thus, millions are affected in the world. Yet so little is known about what it depends on. There is no cure either. There is hardly any research at all. And even though it is an intolerable pain, there is hardly any research on pain and pain relief. But that can't be the case anyway, people are thinking. Yes, it is. And that's right, it only affects women. Research to be able to cure or relieve has always been down-priority. I know it is because I suffer every day with so many endo-warriors. Endometriosis, safe abortion and men's violence against women are just three examples where gender equality is far behind. Feminist foreign policy is important. Mr President, I would like to I just want to finish by saying that I will celebrate every little victory along the way, because I am sure we will win the fight.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-789	Mr President, I would like to I can only agree that women's rights and opportunities throughout the world must be improved. As I mentioned earlier, I have just returned from an election observation in Azerbaijan. What was often highlighted there – among women, among observers and in the OSCE position – is that women are not visible in politics. There are few female candidates. But it's not just there. It is also about women not being seen in society in the same way as men. Married women stay at home. Married women do not have childcare facilities. Married women don't work. This creates great difficulties for women to return to work. But this does not only concern Azerbaijan, but concerns a large number of the former Soviet states, where it is exactly the same situation.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-793	Mr President, I would like to We are pursuing an active feminist foreign policy, Margareta Cederfelt, which you and I discussed in this House not long ago. For these women in Azerbaijan, we want to do what we want to do for all women in the world, i.e. lift representation. It is not an insignificant part, and it was not at all my intention to belittle it. In Sweden, we know that childcare is one of the most important parts of economic empowerment for women. That is why it is necessary that in the bilateral and multilateral talks we are constantly raising the importance of equal participation of women. So do we, just as I described. I know that Margareta Cederfelt does, just as I do with all my colleagues. We are going to point out that it actually makes sense to allow women to participate. It increases prosperity; we know that.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-795	Mr President, I would like to I raise the issue, because where democracy goes back and totalitarian regimes take hold, women's space is also reduced. We know this, and that is why it is very important to continue to work and not to remain silent. We must ensure that women's opportunities and women's situation – and make it clear what positive society benefits from strengthening women's positions. It is about showing what it means for the economy and for the country's economic growth if women are given greater opportunities to participate in society.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-796	Mr President, I would like to I can only agree. I will soon be going to New York and the UN Conference on Women's Rights, and here I will highlight this – this time as chairman of the Parliament's inter-political SRHR network. At European level, I am conducting these talks for Sweden. So I do not think that Margareta Cederfelt and I have different views here. As we travel around the world, this is what we do every day, at all levels I have addressed. I take a big responsibility by spending a very large part of my working time just on not dropping the ball. I began by saying that we must not lose sight of these issues for a single second. I will continue to pursue a feminist foreign policy with full force, just like all my colleagues.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-798	Mr President, I would like to Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, if this may not be one of the most exciting lines. It is not an attack line change, but I simply want to pick up on what Sara Breitholtz mentioned in her speech. I think you're absolutely right that it's dangerous to look at just part of the equality struggle and believe that everything will work out if we solve that part, Sara. This is a whole where we have to solve a number of things. However, if there is one thing I might still object to a little, it is that I do not think that we should underestimate the economic aspect of this, that is, not only the ability of women to work, but that they can actually also borrow their own property, have an equal right of inheritance and be entrepreneurs – and thus increase economic autonomy. We know that this has a connection with how to participate in society in an active way. Then there is one aspect that I have received when I have been out discussing aid and development issues outside this House, and that is how religious legislation affects this. I would like to hear a little more about how the Social Democrats are arguing about how we ensure that religious legislation that shuts women into the home does not become a barrier in this.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-801	Mr President, I would like to I certainly do not want to detract from the importance of economic empowerment, and I certainly do not want to detract from the importance of education and participation in elections at all levels. That's where we're in complete agreement. As for the religious leaders and religious structures, this is what I was a little into when I said that we need to have conversations with those who do not think as we do all the time. I think it's very important that we now actually listen to and hear what the forces that are conservative- for lack of better words- think. Let me take one example: In Kenya, the church is an important key to unlocking the locks in society. Because I don't have any trust there, but the church does.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-803	Mr President, I would like to I agree. Perhaps I was a little careless when I was talking about religious legislation. We – not least I, who happen to be a member of the Church of Sweden and are quite proud of the work of the Church of Sweden – see that the very religious aid organisations, or aid organisations linked to churches or religious communities, are extremely important players in some countries with dwindling democratic space. What I am going after, however, is the legal difficulty that arises when we have legislative systems that are characterised by or constructed on a religious basis. There we often see the problem that it may be legislation that looks rather progressive, that is, that you have the legal right to run a business or move around in society but that in practice it clashes with a religious part – and then you do not have freedom of movement outside your own home. I think this is really hard to get to, but I think we need to discuss more how we do it and how we can change that kind of legislative structure.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-805	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for raising the question, Magnus Ek! I can only agree – legislation that looks good on the surface is one thing, and that's another thing what it is. Let me give you an example: I am a lawyer, and I have a law degree from Scotland, among others. Until the late 90s it was still legal in Scotland to rape his wife. How could that be? Well, the legislation was based on Baron David Hume's words: A man cannot commit rape upon his wife, who has sourned her body to him. That was the foundation of the laws of marriage, as it were. In Scotland there was a rape act and a sexual assault act, but they couldn't get to this. Here I think that you have to work on different fronts and hook arms with those who are progressive and co-thinking in order to change norms and structures. I don't think there's any other way.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-808	Mr President, I would like to It's not helping self-help if it never ends. That's what it said on DN's leadership page last week, about aid, and it's wise words. We need to think about whether our aid policy and the huge funds we spend on it really are aid for self-help. For if you do as you have always done, it will be as it has always been. For us Moderates, it is obvious to have a zero vision for development aid. It is a long way, but the goal must be clear: the goal is to move from aid to trade. To achieve this, the Moderates want to reform and prioritise aid. First of all, we must leave the principle of budgeting that 1% of GDP should go to aid. It is simply not a reasonable principle of budgeting that you first ask yourself how much money you should spend in one area and then ask yourself what you should do for the money. It is a much more reasonable principle to first ask yourself what you want to do and then ask yourself what it costs. Therefore, the Moderates propose that aid be provided with a four-year financial framework – exactly the same model as we have for research and infrastructure. One may think differently about the exact amount of money that such a framework should be provided with. I personally say that politicians do not have money but take money. The money we take to distribute in the state budget must be spent well, and no other policy area has been allowed to run in the same way as aid. The target of 1% of GDP has resulted in us spending twice as much money today on aid as on the police. Mr President, I would like to Although many Swedes stand up for Sweden, as a rich country, to be a generous donor, I am convinced that most Swedes think it is an unreasonable priority that international aid is given twice as much money as the police. The resources are not endless, and we must prioritise. But, Mr President, we must not only give priority to the funds we spend on aid against other needs, but we must also give priority to aid itself in order to obtain more effective aid. We simply have to choose something or a few areas on which we focus, because – again– even if the world's needs are endless, our resources are not. Sweden cannot do everything. More focused aid would probably lead to better control, and this is needed. Recently, there have been reports of a series of corruption scandals in the world of aid, and last week another one was reported. This time it was about SEK 250 million for an international climate aid project in Kenya. There are many extremely problematic parts of the data that have emerged from the media. The obvious thing is, of course, that people in need have not been given the help they have been promised and that taxpayers' money has been embezzled, but above all it is an extremely remarkable action by Sida. Sida had, according to the media data, entered into an agreement that denied the right to review and revise how the money was used. One wonders, Mr President, how many more agreements have been concluded like this one by Sida. This is not the first time that Sida has acted in a way that damages confidence in the government in general and in the development industry in particular. In November 2018, it was reported about the organisation ICTSD, which received nearly SEK 200 million in assistance through Sida. According to an investigation by the British authorities, the mismanagement of the organization's finances was so severe that it bordered on crime. Sida then chose to end the cooperation with the organisation but refrained from making a police report and recover the tax funds that have already been paid out. Mr President, I would like to It is the government's responsibility to ensure that the tax resources spent on aid are used in the best possible way. Regular reports of irregularities and corruption scandals show that this is not the case. Goodness cannot be measured in the money spent but in actual results. Sweden would need to reduce the number of cooperation agencies in order to have better control and influence over how Swedish aid is used. At the same time, Sweden would probably make more difference in the world. Mr President, I would like to For too long – and still for many parties in the Swedish Parliament – aid policy has been an area that should not be called into question. Aid policy must not be an area of policy aimed at calming our bad conscience, but must be measured and evaluated, just like all other areas, on the basis of their results. We may feel differently if the exact amount of money is to be given to aid. However, more parties should welcome the discussion that the Moderates want to have about how we actually make aid better and how we really go from aid to trade, because we should all agree that this is the goal.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-821	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that aid and development policy in the world are heavily underfunded. Everyone must be clear about this. If we are to achieve the objectives of Agenda 2030, we need more money in the world, not less money. There is therefore a need for more countries that give 0.7 or preferably 1% of their GDP in aid – not fewer countries, as the Moderates want. I have to ask you something. You Moderates make a large number of that this year you want to invest, as you say, SEK 2 1⁄2 billion on a rescue package for welfare and security in Sweden. We do not need to discuss how much air there is in these 2 1⁄2 billion, but I can see that this is as much as you want to reduce the tax by for those who pay government tax each year in the coming years – that is, for high income earners in Sweden. Why is it the poor in the world who, through reduced aid, should pay for the rescue that you say your will to do for welfare and security in Sweden?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-824	Mr President, I would like to We can, once again, disagree with the exact amount of money an aid framework should be provided with. What we want to do is focus aid to put results in focus. What happened to the 250 million for an international climate aid project in Kenya? We need to be able to spend the money much better. Again, no other policy area has been allowed to run as the aid has done. Should Sweden adhere to the UN recommendation, which represents 0.7% of GDP, Sweden would still be the fourth largest donor in the OECD. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Kenneth G. Forslund a question: does Kenneth G. Forslund not share the view that, if it is a question of self-help, it must one day end? Should aid be an eternal redistribution policy, or should it help self-help?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-827	Mr President, I would like to Of course, aid is aid for self-help. The whole Social Democratic idea of development policy is that people should create their own change through their own efforts. This is what we should stimulate with Swedish aid. I believe that very strongly, but not so strongly that I believe that we can see what has been done and that it is time to cut back on the money this parliamentary term. Focus on the world's most effective aid, which Sweden has according to independent measurements! I'd like you to focus on it. Feel free to raise the quality! Feel free to point to what is not good, but do not lower the aid! Do not let the poor in the world pay for your tax cuts for those with the highest incomes in Sweden! Finally, I have one question: how can you get a majority for this in a possible future right-wing conservative government? We know what the Christian Democrats think about this idea.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-830	Mr President, I would like to It sounds to Kenneth G. Forslund that the Moderates want to cut aid to zero. That's not true. The Moderates have said that we want to spend SEK 170 billion on aid in a four-year framework. That is a great deal of money for international aid cooperation. One must be able to have a factual discussion on this and see the inherent system errors that actually exist in the aid, for example, what the payment target leads to. It leads to a payout pressure and to a lot of projects that are not the low-hanging fruits that help people in need and that save people from distress and death but instead a lot of other things. We need to focus on the most important – the low-hanging fruits. We need to focus on achieving results – not a pay-out pressure to satisfy our bad conscience.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-833	Mr President, I would like to To make demands is to care. That's how it is. For us, results in aid are also important; there is no doubt about that. We have worked together during the alliance years to get a clearer focus on results and made great efforts in that part. Aid for Trade is a story where we early invested to move forward. We see Agenda 2030 as an important new basis for aid, because each country here has its own responsibility. There, too, we must make demands to achieve results. But, Mr President, on the subject of focus: do the Moderates intend to give up the agreements we have made internationally at 0.7%? What about the agreement that the EU should work for at least 0.5%? Do you have a different posture there?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-836	Mr President, I would like to No, the Moderates will not make any international agreements. At the moment, the recommendation is that aid should be at a level equivalent to 0.7% of GDP. When we think about what we want to do, it is reasonable for this to be at a level equal to 0.7% of GDP. Kerstin Lundgren mentioned Agenda 2030, and it is reasonable to evaluate where we are then and possibly update the recommendation once it has been implemented. Mr President, I would like to Let me ask Kerstin Lundgren the same question I put to Kenneth G. Forslund. How does Kerstin Lundgren see the zero vision of aid, going from aid to trade? Should aid policy be an eternal redistribution policy? Or is it supposed to be help for self-help and then reasonably one day ends?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-839	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party has made it clear that the goal is for countries to be independent of aid. It is an important basis for moving forward. If the big question for the Moderates is the percentage, why is it that we cannot have percentage targets in Sweden but should stand up for the international agreement of 0.7% and the EU level of 0.5%? What, then, is the purpose of the agreement we have made in Sweden? Why do the Moderates want to give up what we have agreed on globally for aid?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-841	Mr President, I would like to You have to start by asking yourself what you want to do and then ask yourself what it costs. The answer will then be 0.7% of bni, which is the current recommendation. But, as has been said, following the implementation of Agenda 2030, it is reasonable for this recommendation to be updated. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Kerstin Lundgren and I share the objective of aid independence. I look forward to further discussions on how to improve aid. Then perhaps we can come to the scenario Kenneth Forslund mentioned by a majority in this House for a different and better development policy.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-843	Mr President, I would like to It is almost on the day four months since the protests in Chile were met with brutal state violence. Over 30 people have been killed, five of them now in January. Many of the 2 000 political prisoners are young, and over 400 children have been taken care of because they have participated in the protests. More than 200 children, women and men have been raped by the repressive forces, according to reports. More than 4,000 have been shot at, 400 have lost sight in whole or in part and 770 cases of torture have been reported. Today, much of the suburbs of Santiago, among others, are under strict police control, resulting in severe clashes between the people and the police. This is the situation in the democratic country of Chile, to which we have such a good relationship. It should be mentioned that the figures are uncertain because many do not dare to report. I went to Chile in January to get a clearer picture of the democratic situation and human rights violations and to establish contact with the social movement. I can therefore give you some more information about Chile. One thing that struck me was the power of transnational companies and their responsibility in the political, social and humanitarian situation of Chile. Chile is pumped on minerals and water, and the soil is exploited. Although the West often points out that through trade agreements and other international agreements, it does not improve the situation of the populations of developing countries, it does not apply in Chile today. Because of the business of transnational companies from, for example, Spain, Norway, Canada, China and the United States, the Chilean people suffer from water scarcity and environmental degradation. The same applies to other countries outside the borders of Europe. Transnational companies are also involved in the legal persecution of social leaders, indigenous peoples and environmentalists. There is a reason for this, namely our enormous need for minerals and our need to increase profits beyond all borders. To maintain this, we are creating trade agreements and relations, primarily through business relations. Unfortunately, the West places the environment, climate, human rights, women's rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child in second place. Chile is not alone in this. We see the same behaviour in South Africa, Ecuador and Congo, to name a few countries suffering from systematic environmental degradation and human rights violations in order to protect the interests of transnational companies. You can clearly see the power of companies over the future of countries. Today, the three largest transnational companies earn more in one year than 160 countries' aggregate GDP. We must take a stand here. Should companies dominate the democratic development of countries? Should they be allowed to destroy the environment, have devastating effects on the climate and commit human rights violations without being held responsible? Sweden needs to lead the way by, for example, signing the United Nations' binding treaty, binding law, which regulates the responsibility of transnational companies in the field of human rights. Trade agreements need to take a completely different direction from today when they also give companies power over the democratic order of countries. Why has the Swedish Government not commented on the impact the investment protection agreements will have on our future climate work and on our democratic order? Today, investment protection agreements are used to slow down or halt the changes that countries want to implement in favour of climate or democracy. We do not need to leave Sweden's borders to understand how transnational companies exploit this. Last autumn Sweden was sued for SEK 17 billion when the Riksdag decided to ban the exploration and mining of uranium. The government has worked to ensure that similar investment protection is included in the EU's trade agreements. Because of this, companies will be able to sue us if we make changes that affect their financial interests. This applies, for example, to welfare gains, re-regulations or every time we do climate work. Of course, the Left Party demands more responsibility from transnational companies and also wants to remove the investment clauses, as in the Energy Treaty, in order to put people, the environment and democracy first.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-859	Mr. Old President! Around the world, violence and oppression against women remain the most serious but nevertheless the most tolerated form of human rights violations. Of the world's poorest, 70% are women. 603 million women and girls live in countries where gender-based violence is not prohibited. Every year 25 million women have unsafe abortions, and tens of thousands of women die as a result. Some 13 percent of the world's maternal mortality is estimated to be attributable to unsafe abortions. What about the many abortions? Of course, they can be attributed to the fact that about 214 million women lack access to contraception. Every third woman has experienced physical or sexual violence at some point in her lifetime. This is, as Olle Thorell said, nothing less than a pandemic of absolutely staggering proportions. An estimated 60 to 200 million women in the world are missing as a result of female abortions and the deaths of girls after birth. There are no reliable statistics, but rough estimates suggest that between 700 000 and 2 million women and girls are subjected to trafficking for sexual purposes every year. 120 million women worldwide have been subjected to rape or other forced sexual acts, and every day over 800 women who have become pregnant die, including due to poor maternal care. We know that women's sexuality is controlled by banning abortion and contraception. The fight for equality must last every day, all year round, all the time. As we now see that right-wing extremism and conservatism rise around the world, the situation of women and girls is under strong pressure. In several countries, progress is going in the wrong direction, and in Sweden, right-wing conservatives are talking about the need for a new feminism or the fact that gender equality has gone too far. To my great surprise, in the previous election movement, as Minister of Social Affairs, I had to discuss the issue of abortion with Swedish democrats – in Sweden! Women are always the first to suffer the consequences when the democratic space is shrinking and human rights are beginning to be called into question. For some reason, it starts quite often with authoritarian leaders actually seem to care about women. How they dress and behave and their sexuality is of great interest. It is against this fund that every decent nation must ask itself the question: Where do we belong in the work of a better world? Against this background, it was not a long step for the government in 2014 to decide to become the first country in the world to introduce a feminist foreign policy. It's quite obvious, really. This is also one of the reasons why we Social Democrats at a time that looks like it is currently, globally, very clearly stand up for the 1% target in aid. We want at least 50% of the aid to go to girls and women. We know that aid contributes very effectively to combating poverty, combating oppression, promoting development and promoting and achieving peace and sustainable security and security around the world. Aid is therefore not a cost in this way for our country, but it will be the other way, if it is the case that in this case, like the Moderates, we want to start cutting back on aid that is very effective. I only have a few seconds left – time flies when you talk about important things. I would like to end by addressing Magdalena Schröder and saying that we Social Democrats are having a debate on aid every day and what it contributes to. In fact, we have the most effective aid available in the world, not least with the focus on equality, against poverty and oppression and for democracy. More is needed than ever, and we look forward to this debate with the Moderates.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-868	Mr. Old President! In last year's foreign policy debate, I highlighted free trade and the importance of safeguarding workers' rights. These issues are no less topical this year when Boris Johnson, in Britain, has managed to complicate his way to a Brexit. During this year, he shall establish a free trade agreement valid from 2021. Something tells me that, even there, we will have to look at strange blunders and solutions that will further divide Britain and pave the way for a crisis with Scotland reminiscent of what we see in Catalonia. Boris Johnson has his role model west of the Atlantic Ocean in the unpredictable President Donald Trump, who is investing in a re-election in November. Almost all the political forces in Sweden from left to right and from traditional to libertarian shake the head of this world's most powerful man in charge of the U.S. nuclear arsenal. He has succeeded in making the leaders of China and Russia look reasonable and reasonable. The United States has walked a long and bleak path away from presidents like Franklin D. Roosevelt and John F. Kennedy. Never before has the world so needed a new leadership, and never has it shone with its absence. There would need to be a new Martin Luther King standing up for the rights of Spanish speakers and other immigrant groups. At the Great Civic March in Washington in 1963, Peace Prize winner King said: I have a dream that one day the nation will rise and make the real meaning of its creed a reality: We believe that these truths are self-evident, that all people are created as equals. I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they are judged not by their skin color but by the substance of their character. Mr. Old President! If you add a religious background to the word skin color, it sounds so topical today. Racism is on the rise, and prejudice has become the highest fashion and is the basis for various European party formations. Europe's and Sweden's immigrants are judged on the basis of skin colour, language skills and religious background and not on the basis of the individuals they really are. Just as the workers in the early 1900s of the upper class were seen as a grey, anonymous and threatening mass, today too many Swedish-born people see immigrants, especially Muslims, as dangerous people living in our large so-called vulnerable residential areas. I can only appeal to you in the right-wing bloc of Sweden and your European party friends: stop fomenting these prejudices! Think of every immigrant as a fellow human being and an individual! Mr. Old President! The workers have not disappeared in Sweden or in our world, rather the opposite is true because industrialization has spread all over the world. There is still a great need for trade union organisation, to fight for a salary to live on, sensible working environments and eight hours of working day. Worst vulnerable, even in Sweden, are migrant workers, who are often forced to work at wages far below agreements and under slave-like conditions. Mr. Old President! I have already mentioned Trump, and I must end with the terrible situation of the Palestinians in the Middle East. The Palestinians are the people who actually have a country but who have been taken away from it. Our friends also say that we have to compromise, that we have to comply and that we have to give in and forget what was actually ours once. Now Trump has made a new offer to the Palestinians, according to him. Jerusalem is to be recognized as the capital of Israel and Israel alone. East Jordan Beach is to be separated from the West Bank. Israeli settlements on occupied Palestinian land shall belong to Israel. However, a number of billions will be handed over as compensation. We cannot abide by this. We can't stretch any more. The protests against the so-called peace plan produced by Trump and Netanyahu are enormous. It is a peace plan without the presence of the Palestinians and in violation of international law. It also has a purpose: to protect Trump from the district court and Netanyahu from prison. These gentlemen have not understood that the Palestinians are not selling their country or capital for all the money in the world. The Palestinians are the people who love life. They're just like us. They want peace, freedom and justice. Why is this denied to them?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-879	Mr. Old President! I thank the honourable Member for the lightening of the fight against xenophobia. In a previous change of line, we heard the Foreign Minister say that anti-Semitism must be combated and that problem taken very seriously. Not least in the Middle East, we see problems when it comes to anti-Semitism. Mahmud Abbas, the President of the Palestinians, said on 30 April 2018 that the genocide of the Jewish population is the Jews' own fault. It was the social behavior of the Jews that destroyed 6 million Jews, said Mahmud Abbas on April 30, 2018. This was highlighted in Swedish and international media. The party leader of the Social Democrats, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, has said that Fatah is a dear sister party. I wanted to hear how the Social Democrats see Mahmud Abbas as the chairman of this dear sister party expressing himself in this way. What does the Social Democracy want to do about it?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-882	Mr. Old President! We Social Democrats are in favour of a two-state solution, which means that Israel has the right to exist and that Palestine also has the right to exist. Mahmud Abbas's statement is clumsy and simply unacceptable. We fight anti-Semitism on all fronts. You've probably heard of the latest statements from our Prime Minister regarding these things, Marcus Jonsson. You have also just heard the Minister for Foreign Affairs talk about this. Al-al-Fatah is a sister organization for us. We'll meet them and we'll talk them out. We also have relations with the corresponding Israeli organisations. We also correct them when they are out in cloudy water, just as we correct al-al-Fatah.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-885	Mr. Old President! The Prime Minister was present in Jerusalem when it was celebrated that it was 75 years ago the liberation of Auschwitz. Then published in a l-Hayat al-Jadida, the official newspaper in Palestine, a chronicle that wrote: A shot and a dead body would cancel the entire ceremony. It was a call from a columnist who appealed to readers to resist. I would like to ask the honourable Member a question on the grounds that he is from Malmö. In SSU's first May train in Malmö last year it was scanned: Crush Zionism! A similar slogan was heard in Germany the same month. Then they shouted: Stop Zionism! But it was the far right party Die Rechte, which called itself Die Hitler-Leute-Leute, the Hitler people, who shouted this. How far does the responsibility within the Social Democracy extend to speak not only with sister organizations but also with the own party organisation in the home district?
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-887	Mr. Old President! The Member seems to have missed Stefan Lövven's speech at the SSU Congress and what he said about this there. If you've missed it, Marcus Jonsson, I would recommend you go in and listen to what our chairman said at the SSU Congress.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-888	Mr. Old President! All my life, as long as I can remember, the discussions on Israel and Palestine have been present, only of course when I went to school and we read about the different religions, since the 1990s with the Oslo Process and what could have become a historic peace agreement. More than 25 years have passed since then. We still do not see the political will required to bring about lasting peace and stability in the region, where two states with safe and recognised borders can live side by side. We need to talk more about this. Mr. Old President! As an internationally committed and interested social democrat, I have been given the opportunity to see large parts of the world in different ways. I have been fascinated, but I have also been horrified many times. Despite the fact that the discussions on the Middle East, Israel and Palestine have been in place all these years through my political commitment, it took me until after I entered Parliament before I had the opportunity to visit these two countries. On-the-spot meetings with human rights organisations, Israelis and Palestinians who were concerned about the development of their region and both settlers and vulnerable people affected by settlement policy were shocking. I remember many times since then thinking about how this occupation can be allowed to last year after year, day after day. During my last visit to Israel and Palestine last autumn, I thought, especially when I met younger people in the region, that the abandonment of the situation was more present than in previous visits. Exhaustion, anxiety, and powerlessness claim their right. We also see globally how commitment to the Palestinian cause has generally become weaker. Perhaps in recent years it has been seen most clearly by the action of the American administration. In recent years, years of American foreign policy have shifted. The United States has moved its embassy to Jerusalem, strangled virtually all financial aid to the Palestinians, declared that Israeli settlements do not violate international law and recognised Israel's sovereignty over the occupied Golan Heights. When the President of the United States, who is most responsible for this policy, just recently presented what he has given the not so humble name of the settlement of the century, it was done side by side with the Israeli Prime Minister. The place where the Palestinian party should reasonably have been expected to be gaped empty. According to the agreement between Trump and Netanyahu, Jerusalem will become Israel's undivided capital. Today's settlements on occupied Palestinian territory will be given the status of Israeli enclaves. All experience of serious peace work is that mediators must listen to and understand the interests of both parties. Otherwise, there can hardly be a lasting peace. Mr. Old President! The answer from the Palestinian side has been clear. Clear condemnations came quickly. At the same time as Trumps's plan was presented in Washington, the rival Fatah and Hamas did something as unusual as a joint statement. The Arab League also came together in a clear no to the plan through an extraordinary meeting in Cairo. The UN has been clear, as has the EU. Our current Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ann Linde, and the former Minister for Foreign Affairs of the bourgeois government, Carl Bildt, have also made it clear that this so-called peace plan leaves much more to be desired. The criticism from the international side is therefore not consistent with Trumps's approach. His position is that the plan is the framework for further discussions and that no other comments should be taken into account. But the question is whether Trump and Netanyahu can really ignore the views that have already been heard. Mr. Old President! Any peace process involving several parties must also involve all parties and on equal terms. International law and the decisions of the Security Council must be respected. What has been presented is not really an attempt at a serious peace plan to talk about. We cannot begin to redraw states' borders in violation of international law and agreements. Such a system of things will eventually become destructive, challenging, and dangerous. Mr. Old President! I am proud to belong to a party that operates in a country that has clearly taken a stand for a two-state solution in which the Israeli people and the Palestinian people will have the right to live in peace and freedom within safe and recognised borders. It also includes the stronger party having a greater responsibility for ending the occupation, for reaching joint agreements and for complying with international law. The Palestinian side also has a responsibility in this. It is important to emphasise this. Against this background, Sweden's decision to recognise the Israeli as well as the Palestinian State is fully reasonable and consistent. If we are serious about international law and we want to see peaceful development in the Middle East, it is important that Sweden and our government remain clear about it. For me as a social democrat with the firm conviction of the equal value of all people regardless of where in the world they live, it is self-evident to raise your voice every time human rights are violated. The Israeli-Palestinian peace process – and I mean a genuine peace process that includes both parties – deserves the clear voice of the outside world.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-899	Mr. Old President! Since the 1730s Sweden has had diplomatic relations with Turkey. Actually, the connections can be traced even further back in history. Turkey is not just a country with an important geopolitical situation. It is also a holiday paradise that several thousand Swedes go to every year. Since 1999, Turkey has the status of a candidate country to the EU, which requires the candidate country to comply with the Council of Europe's human rights conventions and meet the Copenhagen criteria, which impose political and economic conditions which a candidate country must fulfil in order to become a member of the EU. Unfortunately, there are daily reports of violations from Turkey where elected representatives, trade unionists, women's rights activists and journalists are imprisoned on completely undemocratic grounds. Today, Turkey is in conflict with almost all its neighbours. In Syria, Turkey has occupied the Kurdish territories, including the Aphrin province, which is a violation of international law. Thousands of people have been forced to flee, and serious violations and violations of human rights are reported daily. Iraqi Kurdistan is being bombed on a daily basis on the pretext of war on terrorism. Christian minorities such as Assyrians, Syrians, Armenians and Alevites still have limited rights, and it is still taboo to discuss the genocide of Christians that took place during the end of World War I. The conflict with Greece over borders in the Mediterranean and the situation in Cyprus are two other issues which occasionally blow up. Mr. Old President! In 2016 – 2017, major constitutional changes were made to the Turkish Constitution. Since 2017, Turkey has been governed by a presidential system that allows the President to rule with decrees, appoint important judges, dissolve the parliament and introduce a state of emergency on his own. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' report on human rights in Turkey, published in February 2019, these constitutional changes and the introduction of new executive governance have led to the weakening of the rule of law principles and the erosion of scrutiny and balancing functions. Since 2016, several elected politicians have been imprisoned, including the leaders of the opposition party HDP, the People's Democratic Party, Figen Yüksekda中 and Selahattin Demirtaş. In November 2018, the European Court of Human Rights stated that Kurdish politician Selahattin Demirtaş should be released from Turkish prison. The judgment made it clear that Selahattin Demirtaş has been arbitrarily imprisoned. Mr. Old President! In addition to the imprisonment of opponents, the Turkish Constitutional Court is now threatening two legal political parties with a ban. The reasoning presented by the court is that the parties have the word Kurdistan in their party names. There are two parties called Kurdistan Freedom Party and Kurdistan Socialist Party, PAK and PSK. The Turkish Constitutional Court believes that the word Kurdistan threatens the unity of the Turkish State and undermines national security. These are two common charges used to silence opponents in Turkey. This is a contradiction in view of the fact that the present Kurdish provinces of Turkey were called Kurdistan until 1930. There was a policy that was colored and influenced from Europe, especially by the emerging extreme nationalist movements culminating in fascism and Nazism. A country, a people, a language and a religion. Once again, these ideas are seen and heard in Europe and parts of the world, and not least from Turkey. The political parties PAK and PSK have been working legally in Turkey for four years and have participated in the last local elections. Both parties reject armed struggle, believe in the parliamentary method and work for a democratic Turkey which guarantees the collective rights of religious and ethnic minorities and the right to self-determination for the Kurds. A ban on these parties would be another setback for the progressive movements fighting for a democratic Turkey. It is with a free opposition that Turkey can seriously claim to become part of the European Union. With an opposition that is in prison, with a restricted freedom of expression and with continued war in Syria and Rojava, the dream of membership of the EU should become increasingly distant. Mr. Old President! Sweden is not an isolated island. What happens in the outside world and especially in an area not too far from Sweden affects us here too. It is therefore important that the Swedish Government continues its commitment, especially with the feminist foreign policy, to the struggle for democracy, peace and freedom in parts of the world that need it.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-913	Mr. Old President! Peace is a precious gift that enables people to develop based on their own dreams and visions. Unfortunately, not everyone has had the opportunity to enjoy peace and freedom. Wars and conflicts affect us all. We've had two world wars in the 20th century. Persecution of Christians was already in progress at the beginning of the 20th century and is currently underway. We have had the Holocaust and various conflicts in Africa. It has been about the situation in the Balkans and, above all, in Eastern Europe. It has concerned Moldova, Ukraine and Georgia. There have been recurrent wars and conflicts in the Middle East where the situation of Syria and the situation of the Kurds are perhaps the most obvious at the moment. Conflicts unfortunately create hatred. They create freedom, abuse, poverty, material destruction and flows of refugees. We in Sweden must work within the UN, within the EU and ourselves to help bring peace. For my part, I think there are two strategies that are better than most. It is international cooperation and increased trade. The EU project shows how important trade is. Peace, reconciliation and trade can create a better situation for all. We have also had conflicts in our neighbourhood. It is Russia's aggression in Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine and the war in the Balkans. From my point of view, Mr President-in-Office, we must continue to work on the Balkans in particular right now. It is about free trade, visa freedom for Kosovo, combating crime and corruption, combating trafficking and other things that are clearly violating people's freedom. Mr. Old President! Sweden is a fantastic country that has enjoyed the fruits of peace for a couple of hundred years. However, this has not always been the case. We have a long history of constant wars with our neighbours. This time, the time of war, was marked by great injustices, sicknesses, and poverty. Peace has given us all a better life. This is an example showing other areas of conflict that peace and trade can give everyone a better everyday life. I hope that we all help to work for peace and freedom regardless of where hatred and evil show their ugly face. Mr. Old President! Let me quote the Bible, Lord, how many times will my brother be able to do wrong to me and still receive forgiveness from me? As much as seven times? Petrus I say to you, not seven times, but seventy-seven times. ..................................................... This is a picture that tells us about forgiveness. In war there are terrible abuses. We have to confess to them. But we also learn that if we are to gain peace and reconciliation, we must forgive. Here we can look at South Africa's Truth Commission, which has worked actively with reconciliation and forgiveness to try to repair the damage and violations that occurred in the country. Mr. Old President! I hope that, as a country and as a people, we can contribute to peace and reconciliation in Africa, that we can contribute to peace and reconciliation in the Middle East and that we can contribute to peace and reconciliation in the Balkans and Eastern Europe. Mr. Old President! I think there are many of us in Sweden who work hard and are travelling. We're doing a good job. We do not always agree, but I hope that we can be a country that points to peace and reconciliation.
i-fe28f6bd7e6df4c9-924	Mr. Old President! There is hardly any phenomenon that has such a strong international character as the oppression of women in the world. It's all over the place. There is no country that can be said to be free from women's oppression. In Sweden, we talk a lot about gender equality but do not have at all any ugly solderingly equal society. Men are still privileged to women in several areas. There's a lot more to do. Out in the world, the situation is quite different. Women are locked up as cattle in countries such as Saudi Arabia, in parts of Afghanistan and in other countries in the Middle East. In marriage, they are treated as a commodity. Women who commit so-called adultery are beheaded or whipped. In Iran, women are imprisoned and tortured for refusing to comply with Sharia laws, such as forced veils. The one who has received the most international attention is the human rights activist and lawyer N asrin So to u deh, who has received 37 years' imprisonment and 148 lashes only because she represents imprisoned women who, according to Sharia in Iran, have been guilty by taking off the veil at a station on 8 March. In large parts of Africa women are genitally stymied. Somalia has often been cited as the worst example, but in a country like Egypt, 90% of rural women are sexually mutilated. In Pakistan and Iraq, it is true that a law on honour crimes has been introduced which imposes severe penalties on the perpetrator. Nevertheless, the amount of honour crimes is still very large. Amnesty International also points out that the law has many loopholes – loopholes that leave the door open for bribes to judges and settlements on judgments in such cases. I believe that only laws in themselves work badly in a society where the oppression of women, especially the violence of honour, is generally accepted. Similar conditions prevail in India and other countries. In Turkey there is now a bill that avoids punishment for the rapist if he marries the rape victim. What the raped girl has to say about the matter is not in demand. Women should therefore be able to live with their rapist in Erdo中an's Turkey. The Turkish State has also illegally occupied the Kurdish parts of Syria, where Turkey has been guilty of extra-judicial executions and assaults on civilians, not least on women who are activists and have fought against Daish. These women contribute to the political development of Rojava, which is unique throughout the Middle East. Turkey does not want women and minorities, especially the Kurds, to have their fundamental rights respected. Mr. Old President! In Russia, there is a legislative proposal that provides for a reduction in the penalties for female abuse. These are just a few examples of the ongoing struggle. The oppression of women is not only in Asia and Africa. In the larger parts of Latin America there are women's oppression and abuse of girls and children. During peaceful demonstrations against inequality and social injustice in Chile, militias committed sexual abuse of female activists. And we in Europe and Sweden can hardly escape criticism. Mr. Old President! Today, the government presented a new law on a feminist trade policy. What can this mean for oppressed women? That's a question you want answers to. Feminist foreign policy is not becoming more credible, feminist and solidarity for women in, for example, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Colombia, Yemen, Brazil and other countries. Women do not need armaments and more clothing laws either in the case of veils or in the case of bikinis! By the end of last year, I was on a study visit to Colombia. During my ten-day visits, I met around fifty women's organisations, trade union activists and LGBTI activists. Everyone asked me: What is Swedish aid for, Amineh? I have not yet received an answer to that question. This is an important issue that we need to address. If we really wanted to stand up for women's rights, Sweden, with the support of the EU and the UN, would require a review of the barbaric anti-women's laws that exist in a number of UN member states. Women need security, fundamental rights and economic independence. Finally, I would like to say that it is women's activists throughout the world who have today made headlines in the fight against oppression and the fight against men's violence against women. In Argentina, the United States, Ireland, Poland and Russia, crowds have been mobilized to demand an end to oppression. It is also a question of restrictions on abortion laws. Metoo is an example of this. Mr. Old President! I must conclude by saying that Dawit Isaak and Ahmadreza Djalali must be released.
