i-CpUgDK9gTKhnP2fSkaQXTc	Jimmie Åkesson and others from the Swedish Democrats have tabled a motion invoking Chapter 9. Section 15, the Parliamentary Order. Under this provision, motions may be initiated on the occasion of an event of greater importance by at least ten members if the event could not be foreseen or taken into account during the general exercise period or any other exercise period in Chapter 9. Parliament's order of business. The event invoked is that Turkey no longer complies with the agreement concluded with the EU, which has prevented migrants from reaching the EU's external border in Greece. My assessment is that this is to be judged as an event of greater weight that gives rise to exercise rights under Chapter 9. Section 15, the Parliamentary Order. The motion contains two forms of order that directly focus on the event in question. It is, on the one hand, claim 6, which relates to a declaration that the government should promote immediate support for Greece to maintain the EU's external border, and, on the other hand, claim 7, which concerns a declaration that assistance should be reallocated from Turkey to Greece. I propose that these requests be referred to committees as proposed on the agenda. Other motions in the motion focus on more general measures within migration policy and are based on assumptions about future possible scenarios for increased migration to Sweden and other EU countries. The claims with essentially the same meaning as the motions 2 – 5 have also been brought by members of the Swedish Democrats during the general period of exercise. These requests are intended to be prepared in committee shortly and to be dealt with in plenary in the SfU20 report on migration and asylum policy and in the Juu25 report on police matters by the Committee on Justice. My assessment is against this background that, in the case of motions 1 to 5 and 8 and 9, there is not enough connection with the specific event for which the right to exercise applies in order for the claims to be deemed to have been brought on account of that event. In conclusion, I propose that the House refer motions 6 and 7 to committees as proposed on the agenda and that the House add motions 1 – 5 and 8 and 9 to the documents. Is this acceptable? The answer is yes.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-7	Mr President, I would like to Let us begin today's debates. The EU and Sweden are currently experiencing a number of serious threats to welfare, social economy and security. It is not possible to debate issues relating to the finances of the state and municipalities without pointing out the consequences that we may have to experience from the Corona virus, concerns about new large-scale flows of asylum and a threatening recession. Sweden enters this situation with record weak conditions: the fastest rising unemployment rate in the EU, the weakest economic growth in the EU and a very high unemployment rate for having just gone through a strong boom. On top of this, we have too many municipalities with very weak economies. The Swedish municipalities and regions are always the last line of defence against the major societal problems, especially in cases where the state fails. It is municipalities with already large housing shortages that have to try to solve housing for new arrivals with very short-term prospects and have to deal with the failed migration and integration policies and support new arrivals with support when they do not get to work. This is a worrying development, and what we see at the Turkish-Greek border is, in the worst case, also on the knees of Swedish municipalities. It is also the regions that are the defence lines in the fight against the Corona virus in terms of both sampling and care. At the same time, it is the municipalities that are allowed to take responsibility for the management of children in schools when the responsible authorities are unable to provide clear information and guidelines on how to handle the virus. It is also the municipalities that are forced to try to provide security with security guards and other municipal measures when the state legal society fails. The list can be made longer. The municipalities are always those who represent the basic welfare and guarantee the security of their inhabitants. It is also those who, with different support, try to maintain a certain extent of public service when smaller towns are depopulated and urbanisation is going at a raging speed. This responsibility has to be taken entirely regardless of whether the state is involved in paying for it or not. Today, for many municipalities, the situation is totally untenable. The situation has changed dramatically since 2015 when today's government took over responsibility. SKL – SKR, as it says today – reported in a report 2016 how, during the reign of the Alliance, there was a balance between tax revenue and expenditure in the local government sector and that the local government sector also reported stable surpluses, even during the financial crisis years. In recent years, however, imbalances have increased. Now we see clean alarm reports from the municipality after the municipality that in practice do not make the economy go together, despite the addition of a total of 7.5 billion that was the result of the Moderates' initiative in the Finance Committee in early January, where we also received support from the Left Party, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats for another line. We Moderates have listened to SKL and we have listened to the country's municipal politicians, regardless of their political colour. The basis for moderate politics and the moderate budget is the most important first and foremost. That has been our main message in all economic policy debates in recent years. The most important task of the government must always be to put prosperity and security first. That is also how we Moderates prioritised in our budget last autumn. In our budget exercise, we contributed considerably more money to the local government sector than did the government and cooperation parties. In our budget we also reduced the detailed management of how municipalities and regions can use the money by reducing the number of targeted state grants to more general ones. This frees up additional resources. We did this because we see how the core tasks in the welfare field are being squeezed. They are being pressured by demographics, by a very high level of immigration, by a declining economic cycle and by the fact that Sweden now, as I said, has the lowest growth rate in the EU per capita and the fastest rising unemployment rate in the EU. When the government Löfven office, Sweden was in 12th place in the EU in terms of unemployment. Now we have slipped down to 22nd place by the countries of the European Union. The unemployment rate in Sweden is currently rising fastest throughout the EU. This does not provide the tax revenues that municipalities and regions would need. At the same time, let us note that it is not enough just to add more money. Local local and regional politicians also have a great responsibility to give clear priority to what is most important. Unfortunately, even in today's strained situation, we see some municipalities taking totally incomprehensible decisions on expenditure that even with great imagination cannot be called an investment in basic welfare. We Moderates want to give municipal politicians greater power over state subsidies, but it also obliges them to manage to make sensible priorities. Most municipalities can do this, and for the others it is now up to evidence. Another important issue is the efficiency of the local government sector. It is a myth that the quality of welfare depends only on how much money you spend. An analysis in the newspaper Dagens Samhälle a few years ago showed that the quality and satisfaction of care for the elderly and home care were completely unrelated to the cost level. It was at least as high a rating for the activities of the municipalities with the lowest cost as in those with the highest cost. There are many things that municipalities can learn from each other. The key factor for the local government sector's finances is that the central government simultaneously manages its commitments and also adds more money to the municipalities in order to be able to cope with the increasing burden on the economy caused by previous government decisions, including in terms of migration. A government-level policy is also needed for long-term good growth across the country, with more companies and more jobs in the private sector. Mr President, I would like to The spread of the coronavirus is serious in several respects, not just in medical terms. The specific medical elements are not for the Committee on Finance to discuss. I shall therefore leave it to other committees. But the socio-economic aspects are also worrying. The government has recently revised its forecasts for growth, and we are already seeing concrete effects for not least smaller companies that have quickly lost orders and revenues. This can lead to economic problems such as bankruptcies, closures and rising unemployment, as well as a fall in tax revenues and an increase in government expenditure. In this situation, it is even more important for municipalities and regions to be strong. During the financial crisis, the alliance government contributed very large sums to the local government sector. This made it impossible to get rid of staff and secure welfare activities. If the situation becomes more serious as a result of the transmission of the Corona virus, this issue will again be brought up to date. That is why we in the Moderates yesterday presented our proposal for a comprehensive crisis package. There is also reason to be prepared in the state budget for permanently prioritising the local government sector and welfare. As you know, prioritising means that other priorities must also be removed. If the government needs tips on savings, I recommend the Moderate Budget Movement from last autumn. We gave priority in our budget to the most important thing first. We said no to free years and no to entry deductions. It has been tried, and we know that it is an inefficient employment subsidy. We cut back on aid, which today is far higher than the UN recommendations. And we saved on inefficient climate policy, pointless building subsidies and much more. Instead, we invested in what is most important for taxpayers and for Sweden: welfare and security. We did so at the same time as taking important steps towards growth, full employment, reduced taxes and reduced dependency on subsidies. You can do both, and at the same time, if you prioritise. Mr President, I would like to I am very concerned about the situation of the local government sector, especially as today's problems have arisen during a strong boom. Sweden is greatly weakened into a very uncertain future. We are entering into this uncertainty with extremely low interest rates, which do not allow for any major stimulus that way. We enter with the highest unemployment in the boom that Sweden has experienced in modern times, and we enter it with a very large alienation. At the same time, we see major shortcomings in important social functions, such as health care and justice, and too many municipalities have an extremely tough financial situation. If Sweden is to cope with major and important societal problems today and in the future, there is no room for economic ease of mind. It's time to start prioritising seriously. Some of the things that need to be prioritised are precisely the welfare of municipalities, the judiciary and, not least, health care. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I would like to say that the Moderates are, of course, in favour of all the reservations, but I would just like to ask for reservation 6 only.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-26	Mr President, I would like to We are debating municipal issues today. I would also like to start by raising my eyes a little, as the surrounding world affects the conditions for municipalities to carry out welfare activities. The management of these external factors by the Government and the Riksdag also affects municipalities' ability to carry out welfare activities. If we lift our eyes slightly from the municipal perspective and put on macroglasses, we can see that we have had to say the least volatile development of the world around us, and most of the evidence suggests that we will continue to have it in the near future. We have a corona virus that ravages and puts pressure on municipalities and regions to act, detect the virus and reduce the spread effects. If Swedish healthcare has been strained so far, it will be an even greater test when the number of infected now seems to accelerate. This places new demands on routines and care hygiene in elderly care. We know that mortality among older people is higher than among other age categories. How do you handle this? Do schools have a dialogue with municipalities on how to deal with a major outbreak? These are issues that put municipalities to the test in the globalised world in which we live today. But we can also have views on how late this has been handled at national level. We have also seen a strong correction on the stock exchange. This underlines the seriousness of the situation we are now facing. At the same time, we can only look at Turkey using economic migrants as blackmail against Europe, despite the fact that it has received EU tax funds to keep the border. This is done not only by keeping the border open but also by actively facilitating transport from Turkey across the Aegean Sea to the Greek island of Lesbos. In 2015, I was at Lesbos to inform new arrivals about the strained situation in Sweden's municipalities. The message I had was: No money, no jobs, no homes! It is a message that remains topical. What will be the consequences for Europe and Sweden this time we do not know yet. It depends entirely on how long Mr Erdo plans to keep the door to Europe wide open. But one thing is certain, and that is that, unlike 2015, we must defend our border. Otherwise, basic municipal welfare will collapse, insofar as it has not already. Nevertheless, Sweden remains at the EU's absolute peak in the reception of new arrivals. I could ask how much more Sweden's municipalities can handle, how much faster health care professionals should have to run from one patient to another or how much more we should lower the heat in our retirement homes, how many more teachers we should write sick and how many more fire stations to close. You get by your forehead and ask yourself how much more Swedish municipalities can handle. But the answer is that the border is already crossed. The Swedish Municipalities and Regions are crying out for help from politics; and the Swedish Democrats have listened. We have prioritised them in the budget. We have provided more than the government in general government grants to maintain the quality of welfare and to maintain quality in school, health care and care. For the same reason, last autumn we supported a proposal on the equalisation system. The aim was to help municipalities affected by the government's immigration policy to keep their heads above the surface. Together with the other opposition, we gave the municipalities an extra 2.5 billion. There are three concrete measures for strengthening municipal welfare and a clear and firm line in Sweden's democratic policy. However, given the financial situation of the municipalities, it is not enough. That is why we will continue to give them priority in our future budget work. What has disappointed me is the answers I have received when I have asked about the difficult conditions that the state gives the municipalities to carry out their activities. I asked last autumn the Minister of Civil Affairs: why does the Social Democracy's abolition of military war tax give priority to municipal welfare? I don't really mind you taking away the defense tax. But it should not be done when Sweden's municipalities bleed. The timing could not have been worse, when we have imminent threats of redundancies in welfare, when we have employees and, above all, women who burn themselves out and when we have people who die in care queues. The timing could not have been worse for abolishing the defense tax. Every crown makes a difference. I did not receive an answer but rather a counter-question if the Swedish Democrats would support the proposal on the equalisation system, which we did. But on my question about the government's priorities, about these SEK 6.2 billion that it cost to abolish the military tax, the answer is still due. I was equally disappointed by the successor of the Minister for Civil Affairs, who, in January, was unable to give a straight answer as to why the municipalities should take the bill for the government's immigration policy. Worse still, the government refused to admit at all that there is a link between the local government's financial situation and immigration policy. The answer failed, again. It is remarkable, to say the least, that one cannot acknowledge this fundamental causal link, that one cannot acknowledge the facts. At the same time, I am absolutely convinced that the Social Democrats are not really doing any other analysis. It is therefore understood that immigration policy is a cost driver in municipal welfare. Everybody sees it. The only problem is that you refuse to admit it. And if you can't admit a problem in the first place, how can you solve it?
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-41	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating municipal issues. I will start from three things that are obvious to the Center Party. Our starting point is this debate, but I understand that not everyone is a center party and is thinking like us. That is why I think it is good not to take for granted that it is clear to everyone. So we have three obvious things on which to start in this debate, and the first is that we should ensure good welfare throughout Sweden. This goes without saying. In order for this to be possible, there are two main elements that need to exist: a functioning tax equalisation system and general state subsidies. The second obvious is that we know that the finances of municipalities are two thirds dependent on income tax. So we need to continue to have reforms to facilitate the creation of more jobs and entrepreneurship throughout the country. This is the basis of the municipal economy. That's the connection. The third obvious thing for me as a center party is that we need to have a variety of welfare service providers. This is absolutely essential both for freedom of choice and for innovation, because the challenge for the local government sector will definitely be great in the future. Mr President, I would like to It's easy to confuse the perspective. Today, in terms of time, I think we have three different things at the same time. Here and now we're talking about Corona, but for how long we don't know. We talk a lot about a cyclical effect within one to three years. We are also talking about a structural change within a five- or ten-year cycle. These three things must be kept separate so that you do not confuse the three perspectives. The structural challenge is perhaps the greatest. It's mostly about changing demographics. It is also an issue of urbanisation. It is also, above all in the health care sector, a development of medical technology which is fantastic but which costs money. Finally, we are talking about the expectations of the population, which are rising all the time, which is causing problems. We know that SKR's forecast for tax development 2020 – 2021 is falling, in real terms. It is the lowest rate of growth in ten years, which is a tough challenge but not unexpected after a long period of high growth. I myself experienced such a situation as Municipal Commissioner on Gotland in 2009, after the financial crisis. Then we came to a budget preparation and lacked 150 million. Many of the previous generation have experienced this. I hope today's mayor won't have to, but there's definitely a risk. When big money is missing, it is about daring to prioritize and really think new. The risk of it being repeated is, of course, obvious. At the top, too, is the general short-term concern created by the Corona and the oil price fall. At the same time, I think we need to be a little optimistic. We have a fantastically rich and functioning country. We've done it before, and we're gonna fix it again. We need a system with a guaranteed level of service throughout the country. In order to cope with welfare everywhere, we need to find entrances to the municipal tax equalisation system. The first entry we have is that we need a system of guaranteed service levels throughout the country, that is, we need to increase the levelling-up of certain things. The second starting point for a cost equalisation system to work is that we need to create incentives for entrepreneurship, jobs and growth in the forthcoming revision of the cost equalisation system. Today it is a little too weak incentives there. The third point of departure for an equalisation of costs is that we must increase local self-determination, above all through general state subsidies. The Center Party is the party that has fought the longest for general state subsidies, but now I think it is a general insight that has begun to sink in, which is a good thing. It is fundamental that the median municipality still has 13 000 inhabitants, and it feels like that insight has not always reached Stockholm, especially not to the Government Office. Mr President, I would like to We continue to focus on entrepreneurship and jobs and on creating better conditions, for it is, after all, the jobs and growth of companies that create the municipal economy, on which the entire local government sector rests. As politicians, of course, we are not creating jobs, we are creating the conditions. We know that we need a constant pace of reform. Reality doesn't stand still anywhere. What drives the need for reform is technological development, which is progressing at a raging rate, but it is also changing demographics, urbanisation and, finally, climate change, which we may not have seen the full impact of yet. They will mean a major change in society, and so we need constant reforms. I am therefore very unhappy with the fact that the initial deduction fell. It was a reform that Sweden really needed to reduce the tax burden on companies by a total of 7 billion and to target aid to new arrivals, young people and the long-term unemployed. It was an important reform that would solve many of the challenges facing Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party also has the point that we need freedom of choice, not least in order to create innovation power in the municipal sector. We know that the private sector is usually a little better at it. Let me give you an example from Gotland. We have a dementia home on southern Gotland called Hattstugan. It is a small, private business that has become a forerunner throughout Sweden and has been around and talked about how to create the best possible care in dementia homes. They are the best in the country to create commitment with employers and have become a real precedent. They're privately driven. With this, I would like to say that the private sector often finds it easier to find new solutions that will develop even for the municipal sector. The appearance debate that we have had on performers is, in fact, completely immaterial. Financing is a completely different matter. We need diversity in execution in order to cope with the pace of innovation ahead of us. It will be an important part of managing the economy in the future. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I can say that the three starting points of the Center Party – that is, safe and good well-being is fundamental for the whole country, that we need more reforms to create jobs and entrepreneurship in the country and that we need more choice and diversity in execution – are our entrances to the municipal debate today. We in the Center Party are of course behind all our reservations, but for time winning we only ask for reservation 5.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-60	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with much of what Lars Thomsson said in his speech. Much of that was the policy that we agreed on once during the alliance years. But I have three concrete questions. Lars Thomsson said in his speech that the Center Party is the party that fights most for general state grants. I can only note that the share of general state subsidies in state subsidies has decreased in recent years, while the proportion of special-dispensed people has increased. My first question to Lars Thomsson is how he and the Center Party, which are part of the government base on budgetary policy, want to change and how they intend to move forward on this issue. Then I am pleased that Lars Thomsson talks about the importance of prioritising when tax revenue decreases. We Moderates share the picture that we need to become better at prioritising. In our budget, we have given quite a few examples of what we want to give priority away. In fact, if you want to prioritise, you can not only prioritise new expenditure, but you also have to give priority to other people if you want to make ends meet. I wonder, then, what concrete expenditure in the state budget that the Center Party believes could be given priority. I'd like to make a little correction about the initial deduction. We actually tested similar solutions during the alliance years with roughly the same approach aimed at certain groups. I agree that this was worth trying. We had similar problems during the financial crisis, and it was worth trying new ways forward. However, we were also able to note that these solutions did not work and did not have the effect that we had hoped for. I do not regret that we tried this. But if it has failed once, then it is very foolish to do the same thing again.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-65	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your question, Jan Ericson. I like to answer questions, and that is why I am going to do so out of the ordinary from this speaker's seat. As far as general state grants are concerned, the Center Party is probably the party that has really led the discussion about going back to general state grants. In fact, the alliance government has been a sinner, but the red-green government has actually sinned even more. We reached a good point in the budget for this year. We got some semi-general government grants. This can be counted in different ways. But we're not in goal. Our goal is to get away from the targeted state subsidies. They're not working. Above all, they are not effective and do not work for small municipalities. We are behind our priorities in order to put together an overall budget precisely in accordance with the budget presented by the Center Party together with the other parties that are behind the January agreement. We have also taken away a lot of proposals there. I think you know that well, Jan Ericson. Jan Ericson, you're saying that we've tested the input allowances and that they don't work. It's a truth with modification. The proposal that we have put forward in the January agreement and that has now fallen is a different approach. It is about much more money, and it is more targeted. Studies from experts say that the previous example was not so bad – it was hidden by a cyclical effect. It actually had a pretty good effect on these particular groups. Everyone knows that we have the most problems in the labour market with getting new arrivals, young people and the long-term unemployed. That is exactly what the initial deduction was aimed at. Therefore, I very much regret that the Moderates came to the wrong conclusion.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-69	I took note of some of you in the speech and quietly remind you that we usually speak to each other via the President of the House.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-70	Mr President, I would like to I agree with what Lars Thomsson says about the fact that all governments have sinned with regard to general state subsidies. That is absolutely the case. I think it is built in that, when we are in this House, we find it very funny that we can manage the municipalities and what they should use the money for. But when we sit on the second chair as municipal councillor, we think that politicians in Stockholm should always interfere with everything we do. This is probably true regardless of party affiliation. But I do think that we in Parliament have a duty to show greater respect for the municipalities and actually give them a chance to deal with this. As Lars Thomsson said, it is difficult for small municipalities to live up to all the special rules required for many targeted state grants. I therefore hope that we can continue to work together on this. Lars Thomsson did not really answer my question about priorities. He just said I should know what was taken away from the budget. But my question was actually what Lars Thomsson and the Center Party think should be cut off in today's budget in order to free up resources for what Lars Thomsson said in his speech that we should spend the money on instead, i.e. welfare, municipalities and health care. Then something else must be removed from today's budget. And I'm a little curious to know what Lars Thomsson really wants to cut off in today's budget. We Moderates have a number of proposals, and I mentioned a number of them in my speech, which free up huge amounts of money that we can instead invest in welfare. Then I wonder if the Center Party has a similar solution to this. As far as the initial deduction is concerned, however, it can be said that this is a huge amount of money and that it has a very uncertain effect. I'd like to remind Lars Thomsson that we already have the new start jobs. It was something that we started together during the alliance years and that actually had some good effects and that today's government has also retained. There is therefore a fairly broad consensus that the new start jobs are quite good. Then I wonder a little bit about the entry deduction. To put it on top feels quite unnecessary given the high costs.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-74	Mr President, I would like to I'll try not to tell you. I think that what the local government sector needs right now is clear, namely long-term money. Temporary and short-term initiatives – the government parties raised to SEK 5 billion, and the unholy alliance raised SEK 2 billion – do not help the local government sector. Long-term money is needed to plan and hire people in the long term. It is a deadly sin for a councillor to employ people in the long term with short-term money. We'll have to get back to what might be removed. It depends entirely on the cyclical cycle. We come back to this in our amending budget. This must be seen as a whole. I don't think it's serious to say here and now what we're going to take away and what we're going to have left. Once again with regard to the entry deductions: they were aimed at those who needed them most. There was also a tax cut to companies of SEK 7 billion. It is not so often that I hear leading moderate representatives arguing against tax cuts to companies of SEK 7 billion. It surprises me a little.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-78	Mr President, I would like to On a Wednesday morning like this, we are sitting here wondering whether a President has a built-in biological clock that will make him or she never come a minute too late, because we are always standing here and the President is stepping in at exactly 2.30 p.m. 9. I don't know if that's the case. But it would be interesting to know. Another thing to consider, after listening to Jan Ericson, is his call to the government parties to look at savings in the Moderate Budget Movement. Then I wonder: Is it the SEK 10 billion that the Moderates propose to save on sick people that he thinks the government should take after? I would like to say that, in that case, it was a very bad proposal and exactly the opposite of what would be needed at the moment, as we would actually have to abolish the withdrawal for people to stay at home without losing food on the table. The economic reality is very different. We can also note that the finances of municipalities have been addressed in this debate. That goes without saying when it comes to a report such as this. We know that the municipalities, and also the regions, have a very tough financial situation. But from the January parties it is planned to provide about SEK 20 billion. That is half of what is expected to be needed during this parliamentary term in order to maintain today's quality in welfare. Then we know from before that today's quality in welfare may not really be what we want. I think most of us want a little less preschool groups, want a little more teachers and other categories in school and think that in the care of the elderly you should be able to stress less. Precisely the under-financing of welfare, which is largely due to the fact that we in Sweden have prioritised reducing taxes for several decades, the Swedish Democrats of course choose to ignore. 240 billion SEK in a few decades still has consequences – there is an incredible amount of money – or 120 billion SEK since the bourgeois took over in 2006. SEK 120 billion is equivalent to approximately 240,000 nurses' wages. It is clear that this will have an impact on the finances of municipalities. But instead of acknowledging this, the representatives of the Swedish Democrats go to Greece and hunt vulnerable people, people who have been allowed to flee their homes, have left their loved ones, have lost loved ones, have been subjected to torture and rape, may have their children in walking boxes, may live in tents in rain and shakes and do not receive medical care or the food they actually need. These people think the Swedish Democrats should hunt. Mr President, I would like to In addition to the fact that the Swedish Democrats would rather chase refugees than admit that tax cuts that they themselves have been behind contribute to the economic crisis, they are a party that thinks it's perfectly okay that it is picked out of welfare any amount of profit – only they go to private corporate owners. In fact, working conditions in welfare are far too bad in general. Of course, there are many things that are good, and the pride that those who fight and work in the businesses feel about their extremely important work – as well as the responsibility they take – cannot be overemphasised. However, working conditions would have to be much better. In privatised welfare, working conditions are even worse than they are in public welfare. There are more part-time jobs, more times, lower wages and lower levels of education, and stress is much more pronounced. That's what happens if you're too few. If there are too few people in permanent employment and full-time employment, the stress increases. In addition, those who actually have permanent contracts will have to take on an immensely greater responsibility if those with whom they work are employed on a fixed-term basis, because a fixed-term employee obviously has much more difficulty in getting into work and taking the responsibility that a permanent employee who knows the business, the users or the students can take. That's actually what it looks like. While the staff are struggling and doing everything they can in both public and private business, however, we can calmly sit back and find that the owners of these companies are doing well. It is better returns in privatised welfare than in other private service activities. Tax-funded private welfare thus has better returns, no matter what measure we use, than private service activities that are privately funded. That says something. Apart from the fact that it is very expensive to waste tax money in this way, and apart from the fact that working conditions are getting worse, there are other consequences in society. The school will be segregated. The joy certificates are quite extensive. Bureaucracy and detail management require resources, and cheating and tax evasion are part of the concept – yes, we have even been involved in activities that seem to promote terrorism. Study results deteriorate and the school's compensatory tasks are undermined. Children of parents with a short education are disadvantaged, which is quite different from what society needs. Schools go bankrupt, and municipalities are forced to take over. Schools are closed because of mismanagement, and students pay the price. Their school years are lost. How are they gonna make up for it? I wasn't there then, but I've been reading records and other things from the time the school was privatized. I read a sentence that I thought was very tangible and that said most of what happened then. In fact, the then CEO of SAF expressed his delight when the government Bildt had presented the bill for the privatisation of the school by saying: Here lies 300 billion and is waiting for us. No wonder they were looking forward to that bill. We can also say calmly that both those who once wrote that bill, Carl Bildt's officials – if they were secretaries or experts, I do not know – then became the owner of the school company. One became famous for following the bankruptcy of John Bauer celebrating with an expensive bottle of wine on the balcony. He then picked out some profitable schools and continued to be a school owner. The other is also still a school owner, and I can say that they have picked out many, many millions of our tax dollars. So that's what it looks like. The bill that led to the entire privatisation of the school, which has then moved on, was not even preceded by an investigation. It was on 15 pages and thus written by those who then earned much money from the transformation of Swedish welfare. Having debated this issue for many years, I can also note that for Moderates, Center Partyists and Christian Democrats, as well as for Liberals, it is perfectly reasonable to have unlimited profit withdrawals in welfare – unlimited collection of profits from tax funds intended for students, sick people, children and the elderly. Where the Social Democrats stand is a bit difficult to understand, I have to say. When they are with us, they can imagine, or at least be forced, to regulate. If they're with the Center and Liberals, however, they don't have to – with a little joy, it actually seems like. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 4.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-92	Mr President, I would like to One can of course make fun that my party leader, unlike Ulla Andersson's, goes out in reality to form his own opinion and be able to shape our policy based on the reality he sees in terms of what is best for the people on the ground down there and what is best for Sweden. I think that is a reasonable way to build our policy. Instead, the left side remains at a safe distance within these walls. I think it shows an elitist approach to political craftsmanship. On the subject of substance, it is a wave of people now coming from Afghanistan, Africa and Iran. The way the borders are pushed shows that it does not respect the sovereignty of nations, and it does not respect the laws of the host country. It burns cars, and it burns tires. Streetstones are thrown, churches are vandalized. Then it's not about escape anymore. Therefore, it is a legitimate question what Ulla Andersson wants to call the phenomenon that thousands of young, angry men force a country's border by force. I would like an answer to that question.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-94	I would remind you that the debate concerns municipal issues and not other issues.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-95	Mr President, I would like to It was precisely on the basis of the municipal issues that I raised, because we all know that welfare is underfunded. Instead of discussing it and the tax cuts that have contributed to it, or are the whole reason for it, the Swedish Democrats therefore choose to go down to Greece and hunt down vulnerable people – and this despite the fact that it goes against the international conventions that exist on the right to asylum. Dennis Dioukarev claims that the Left Party lives far from reality. I would like to say that it was our members, if any, who, together with a great many others, stood up during the crisis for the people in 2015. We even opened our party rooms and let people sleep over there. We have had people sleeping in our own homes to try in every way to contribute and solve a very difficult situation for many people. We've been down in the refugee camps, visiting and trying to help. We don't hunt people, we see people's vulnerability. We also understand what vulnerability can do to people, which I think a Swedish democrat should also be able to do. I therefore regret that the Swedish Democrats, instead of acknowledging that they have supported all these tax cuts and that they have, in their own budgetary motion, additional tax cuts that are particularly beneficial to the most well-off, have different forms of contributions to the upper class, while they stand and complain that welfare is underfunded. But it is possible to hide behind curtains and try to ignore the reality in which you find yourself. You may feel good about chasing more vulnerable people, so that you yourself seem a little better – I don't know.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-98	Mr President, I would like to I think it is a bit hypocritical to attack the Swedish Democrats for tax cuts while the Left Party supports a government that has chosen to abolish the military tax. You can choose at any time to convict the government, Ulla Andersson, and we can even help you to do so. I therefore extend one hand: let us condemn this government together, if the Left Party is now serious about its criticism of the tax cuts! Our tax cuts are directed at low and middle wage earners – towards ordinary people and small businesses. I do not understand how this could be the wrong way to conduct politics. But the Left Party naturally wants to tax everything that moves, so I am not surprised by this rhetoric. We have increased the general state grants to municipalities more than the government. Together with the Left Party, we have added 2.5 billion extra to the municipalities. It is a good policy for strengthening municipal welfare.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-101	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party proposes that sick people should pay as much tax as those who are lucky enough to be healthy and to have a job. This is what the Swedish Democrats absolutely do not think you should do, but sick people should pay the most in taxes. Anyone who reads the Swedish Democrats' budget motion can see very clearly that those who get the biggest tax cuts are those in the highest income deciles, that is, those who already have the thickest wallets. In addition to this, the reader of the Swedish Democrats' budget motion can also see how to withdraw money to schools in socio-economically vulnerable areas, i.e. those schools that would most need the resources. That is where the children of the working class go, and that is where parents have a short educational background. That is where most support is needed, and that is where the school's compensatory mission is at its most important. There, the Swedish Democrats are withdrawing the money. How do you feel? one might wonder. Apparently it feels good in a Swedish democratic heart. In addition to this, the Swedish Democrats are drawing on almost all the support to make it easier for people to enter the labour market or to get into an education. That's where you cut down hello wildly. In fact, Mr President, the Swedish Democrats do not want us to succeed in integration. It's their birth hook, and that's how they can spread their racist views. I'm sorry about that. I note that I do not support a government that removes the defence tax; I would never do that. We don't run that kind of politics. If the Social Democrats, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Liberals choose to do so, they will have to stand for it – we would never pursue such a policy. On the other hand, I know that the Swedish democrats' economic-political spokesperson, like Dennis Dioukarev, thinks it is really good to remove the military tax. As far as I know, the Swedish Democrats have been behind every bourgeois tax cut in the years that have been in the parliament. Thus, the Swedish Democrats have contributed to the fact that we may have 240 000 fewer employees in welfare than we could have. But that is something the Swedish democrats must take on their conscience.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-108	Mr President, I would like to Municipalities and regions are the basis for the decentralised welfare model that Sweden has. Local self-government gives a great deal of freedom to design and manage their activities based on local needs. What we are debating in this House today are municipal issues, that is, how we can support the municipal sector through national subsidies, equalisation, governance and other things in order to fulfil its mission. The needs of welfare are great. Some municipalities and regions have a particularly strained economic situation. The proportion of municipalities that reported negative results was higher among the smallest municipalities in terms of population, and many are those who work in welfare and feel that they do not have enough and do not have time for the care they want to provide. We Social Democrats will always put welfare first and have always done so. Our top priority is to strengthen welfare and increase security throughout Sweden and to create good and equal conditions for municipalities and regions. We have also prioritised that the whole of Sweden should live and grow. Several authorities have been tasked with facilitating living, living and working in all parts of the country. The challenges in the municipalities and regions are large and varied, and it is a question of creating a level playing field for the different municipalities and regions. All residents, from north to south, should be able to get a good welfare. From each one according to ability, to each one as needed – that is the foundation of the Swedish welfare model. Equality in welfare is extremely important. No matter who you are or where you live, you will receive a good health care, a good education and a good care. Mr President, I would like to More and more people live longer, and more and more children are born. It's positive and good. This is the result of a long-term welfare policy. But the conditions are different, as I used to be. To meet this positive yet challenging development, we will need to employ a lot more people in welfare in the future. The focus must therefore be on skills provision. It doesn't matter how much money we give out if there aren't people to hire, so it's important that we create the conditions to be able to hire and have skills among those who work in welfare – nurses, personal assistants, teachers and child care workers. In fact, there are now 100,000 more people working in welfare than when the Red-Green Government took over. So we have already increased this and have more employees, but there will have to be even more employees in the future. Mr President, I would like to As I said, we know that the challenges are great right now, but the biggest challenges are those that will come in the coming years. Therefore, we must not be fooled into making short-term decisions that may seem good at the moment but which do not help municipalities and regions to deal with the challenges in the long term. It takes a long-term perspective to ensure good welfare in the future. The municipal questions are about a lot of things. One of the important issues is, of course, resources – state subsidies to municipalities and regions. The Ministry of Finance has estimated that more resources need to be added to school, health care and care for the elderly. Several have considered that we need to increase general state subsidies and reduce targeted state subsidies. We have understood this and we are working on it. It cannot be the case that targeted state grants bind fixed municipal and regional initiatives that may not be what is needed most at the time. At the same time, it is the case that a redistribution from targeted state grants to general state grants must be followed by us deciding how to steer the investments in the future. Sometimes targeted state subsidies are needed in areas where development is needed. Mr President, I would like to The need for prevention is great, and this work is crucial to meeting the challenges of the future. We need to improve school results, tackle school segregation and ensure that we get equal medical care. Of course, in this work we must help each other. We'll control the resources and the stakes. We know that unequal care costs more, so if we can steer more, it is better both for the individual and for society. Mr President, I would like to The market is not a recipe for coping with the challenges of welfare. Privatisation and deregulation have proven to reduce equality in health care and increase segregation in schools. For a long time now, we have had suggestions on how to limit the benefits of welfare in the areas financed jointly through the tax bill. But we must also be realists. There is no majority in the Swedish Parliament for a profit limit, and that is where decisions must be made. Therefore, we have agreed that controls and a focus on quality are important in order for welfare to develop in a positive way. Risk of detection is an important instrument. We have a responsibility to ensure that public activities are of high quality, regardless of who carries out them, and that welfare is not exploited. The state, regions and municipalities must jointly take responsibility for managing needs, quality and the necessary site development. It is the need for care for the sick and the young people's need for a good school that will govern. Mr President, I would like to Municipal issues will continue to be very topical, no matter what happens in the world. It's about supporting each other and highlighting good and functioning models, working methods and activities, as well as facilitating municipalities and regions to collaborate in all the ways needed. It is also about using technology and digital services in an innovative way and focusing on the organisational capacity and ability to develop the business. In the coming years, any increase in expenditure needs to be tested against more resources for welfare and thus also increased security in the country. We will ensure that our older ones receive good care and that our children grow up safely. Finally, I would like to call for all motions to be rejected and for the proposal contained in the report to be approved.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-128	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Eva Lindh, it is very difficult to object in substance to what she says, especially when she says: We Social Democrats have always put welfare first. That sounds great. It's just a shame it's not like that in real life. Why, then, did the government give priority to just about everything but the welfare of the budget that you presented last autumn? Why did you not realise last autumn what Eva Lindh says now, that is, that welfare needs more money? We decided on the budget the week before Christmas. Then there was no extra money for welfare. A few weeks into January, after the Moderates presented their initiative in the Finance Committee and the government discovered that there were more parties that thought exactly the same – the Left Party, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats had exactly the same view on this, namely that we need more money for welfare – then the government wakes up and says: Oh, we'll probably have to shoot at 5 billion more! It was great that our initiative brought such momentum to the government. Now there is only one small problem: what are you going to prioritise away to bring out these 5 billion? And why did you not come up with it last autumn, but only when other parties raised the question? I'm very curious about that. Not least, I am also curious about how you will pay all this other money that Eva Lindh so rightly says is needed long-term to strengthen welfare. For example, we see the needs of our health care. How are you going to get that money if you always spend money on just about everything but just the welfare? What does Eva Lindh want to prioritise in today's budget to free up money for welfare? When tax revenues fall and space is reduced, one must give priority to something else. What does Eva Lindh want to prioritise away?
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-131	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes it is fascinating what different images we have of reality. The Social Democrats have for a long time – always – prioritised welfare first. At the same time, we can see that the Moderates have historically not made any investments in welfare. Priority has been given to tax cuts and not to welfare. We've done that. We did it in the last parliamentary term; we are doing it now. Looks like money's been passed on to welfare. Precisely in order for it to be good conditions and clear to municipalities and regions what you have to relate to, we said at the beginning of the term of office that this money will be spent. We also know – as has Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson been out for a long time – that it will not be enough. We need to move more. She has said that, we have made that clear and we will do the same. Jan Ericson talks about betting. This has not been done before, so I welcome the Moderates to join in and jointly invest in welfare. Well, that's a good thing, isn't it? But, of course, I have doubts as to whether it is long-term, because it is long-termism that we need in the financing of welfare. My question to the Moderates is: Can you trust that you will continue to invest in welfare and not just this year? Can we take care that this is required for a long time, not only this year but also in the future?
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-134	Mr President, I would like to I mentioned in my speech that the Swedish Municipalities and Regions have shown in their own evaluation that, in the years that the Alliance ruled Sweden despite the financial crisis, there was a balance between revenue and expenditure in the local government sector. Since the departure of the Alliance in 2014, developments have gone in the wrong direction. Now the cost mass in the municipalities is much greater than the revenue, and this has happened after the Alliance left power. I can also say that we moderates in our budget last autumn were very clear that welfare needed more money. We gave priority to other things in order to get money for this, and it was too long-term investments over a number of years ahead. We have indeed shown on the moderate side what we are prioritising in our budget. If the government had really prioritised welfare, as Eva Lindh says it is, then it would not have been all of a sudden, three weeks after the budget was decided, that it needed another 5 billion. It would not have been necessary if you had really done what Eva Lindh says, namely invested in the welfare of your budget. You didn't. That is why, three weeks later, a few weeks into the new year, right after we put your budget in Parliament, the vigil discovered that we had to spend more money on welfare. This doesn't make sense, Eva Lindh. You cannot say that you always have welfare in focus if you then, just three weeks after you get your budget through, discover that you have to invest more money in welfare. Why didn't you discover it last fall? Then why didn't you release that money? The answer to my question was completely unanswered. We Moderates have clearly shown what we want to prioritise out of the budget. We can free up a lot of resources for welfare like that. But from Eva Lindh I get no answer at all. What do Eva Lindh and the Social Democrats want to prioritise away in order to get money for this long-term investment in welfare? You're gonna have to pick up the money somewhere. Now I want to know where.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-139	Mr President, I would like to There will soon be a spring change budget, and there will also be a budget this autumn. I think that Jan Ericson will have to wait at least a few weeks for what priorities we in the government will be making together with our partner parties. That the Moderates want to bet is, as I said, good. But it's always a bit like that: What money comes or does not come to the municipalities? At the same time as the Moderates invest with one hand, they also deduct a great deal of money from the municipalities, for example, for the unemployed. One of the things I highlighted in my speech was the provision of skills. We need to make efforts for the people who end up in unemployment in order for them to be in welfare in the future. It is not a future effort if you withdraw money from the municipalities by giving with one hand and taking the other, while creating worse conditions for people to get into work. I don't think that's a good recipe for strengthening welfare in the future.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-141	Mr President, I would like to In the bill that we are now debating through this report, the government is proposing, on the one hand, a legislative amendment aimed at clarifying that the AP funds may actually make co-investments in unlisted companies and, on the other hand, raising the ceiling for an AP fund's holdings in terms of voting rights in such co-investment. On the other hand, AP funds may not invest directly in unlisted companies. The First AP Fund addresses this in its referral and believes that the AP Funds should be able to invest directly in these unlisted companies. The AP Fund argues that the trend over the past few years has been that when companies are listed, they often take place at high valuations and stock prices. The AP funds thus lose the return that other institutional investors can obtain when they invest as anchor investors at an earlier stage prior to listing. The First AP Fund also points out that indirect forms of investment, for example through venture capital companies or funds, are often associated with higher costs than internal management within the AP funds. We are simply losing money that we would need for our pensions by banning direct investment in unlisted companies, and we are making it more difficult and costly to manage investments. This should be changed, says the Left Party. We believe that the AP funds should be able to invest directly in unlisted companies. LO also has similar entrances to its referral. Mr President, I would like to First – Fourth AP funds are counted as buffer funds. Buffer funds have two different roles in the income pension system. One role is to deal with the surplus and deficit that arises when pension contributions are different from pensions paid. When payments to the system are larger than payments, the surplus is saved in the First – Fourth AP Funds, and when payments are larger than payments, funds are taken from the funds. The second role of buffer funds is to generate returns to the long-term financing of the income pension system. It would therefore be good if these investors could actually use the money in the most effective way by investing in unlisted companies. However, the companies in which the AP funds invest also depend on the society in which they operate. A society with good economic development increases opportunities for AP funds' investments to generate good returns. It would therefore be interesting, says the Left Party, to allow the AP funds to have a broader mandate to invest in socially beneficial investments. These could include investments in electricity grids, traffic infrastructure, fibre, environmental technology, etc. We believe that the government should investigate the conditions for allowing the AP funds to have this complementary mandate to invest in socially beneficial investments. Nevertheless, it is the building of society, the common one, that is crucial to the development of society. It provides both opportunities and opportunities, and it also benefits everyone in addition to creating jobs. The Left Party has also proposed that the AP funds phase out their fossil holdings. It is not healthy for our pension funds to be used for investments in fossil fuel companies, such as oil companies or gas companies, and we therefore believe that the AP funds should have a mission to phase them out and a special mission to invest in the environmental and climate transition. Our pension money is supposed to do community benefit and not community harm. I commend our reservation.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-149	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that today's debates and today's talks in this House are characterised by the world in which we live. A discussion on financial market issues and AP funds without taking into account Corona discussions and oil price falls and so on is of course very difficult to carry out. Nevertheless, I choose, Mr President, to try to conduct this discussion without going into the above-mentioned external factors here and now. In November 2018, more specifically on 28 November, I stood in this speaker's chair and argued for the government's current proposal for new and changed investment rules for the First – Fourth AP Funds. It was a proposal that Parliament wisely accepted too. The proposal provides that the First – Fourth AP Funds received more modern and more up-to-date investment rules that increased the funds' ability to invest in what is called illiquid assets. The new rules also reduced the requirement for investment in interest-bearing paper. But – and it is important to emphasise – there are also rules that make it clear that the funds will manage their assets in an exemplary way through responsible investment and ownership. The year 2019 thus became the first year with the new investment rules in place. When the government's letter for the activities of the AP Funds in 2019 comes at some point in the autumn, we will have the opportunity to evaluate, discuss and perhaps debate whether and to what extent these investment rules have had an effect. Mr President, I would like to Already in the debate in November 2018, I pointed out that more was under way when it came to changing the AP Funds' investment rules. It is these additional changes that are the subject of the present proposal. The proposals contained in the bill are mainly about providing the First – Fourth AP Funds with further increased opportunities for investment in illiquid assets and thus providing the funds, as far as possible, with a level playing field as other corresponding investors on the market have. These proposals also strengthen the ability of AP funds to fulfil their role in achieving the overall goal of their operations: long-term return on pension capital. This is the task of the AP funds, i.e. to manage the more short-term over and deficit of the pension system, and to generate long-term return on pension capital – a capital that at mid-year 2019 was approximately SEK 1 485 billion. How big it is today, I leave it to someone else to think about. It is therefore gratifying to see that there is broad agreement in the committee to propose approval of the government proposal – a proposal whose proposals are also anchored in the Pensions Group. Mr President, I would like to Despite this broad consensus, there is a motion in this report. It is a motion in which the Left Party proposes two main things. First of all, it proposes direct investment in unlisted companies. The committee rejects the motion on the grounds that the current regime, i.e. that investments in unlisted companies should be made through a fund or a venture capital company, is well-balanced given the mandate of the AP funds. AP funds have mainly financial objectives and should not take economic policy and economic policy into account in their management. In addition, direct investment in unlisted companies would oblige the AP funds to assume a completely different and different operational responsibility for the companies in which they invest. We believe that this is a development that is not desirable. The second proposal of the motion is about a broader goal for the AP funds a. The motion argues in favour of allowing the AP funds to invest in what is termed societal investments. I would say that the AP funds already do so today, Mr President. The exercise exemplifies societal investments that we heard earlier with electricity grids, traffic infrastructure, fibre and environmental technology. Yes, that is exactly what the government's proposal makes possible, namely to invest in precisely this type of company, such as infrastructure companies, but through funds and venture capital companies, for exactly the same reasons as mentioned earlier. We think it is wise to have an impact on the regulatory framework regardless of the company's activities. Again, it is important not to lose out on AP funds' objectives, namely to generate long-term return on pension capital. Mr President, I would like to A little worried about this is when you read the Left Party's motives in the motion. It is therefore interesting to allow the AP funds to have a broader mandate to invest in socially beneficial investments. For my part, it does not feel like a very convincing way of reasoning when it comes to managing our common pension funds. No, it is much more interesting to apply a precautionary principle in this respect, and this makes the Government's proposal seem clearly more balanced and wise. Mr President, I would like to I call for the approval of the Finance Committee's report No 27 and the rejection of the motion.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-161	Mr President, I would like to Each year the public sector procures goods and services for over SEK 700 billion. This corresponds to one sixth of the Swedish bnp. More than 18 000 public procurements are announced each year. I believe that the debate on public procurement should have a much greater place in the Swedish debate. The design and implementation of procurements have a major impact on private business as a large part of their revenue comes from business with municipalities, regions and states. Rightly, tax money is used well while the public contributes to a thriving private business. It also creates jobs and growth in other parts of the economy. Good public procurement creates mutual benefit while companies can step into global competition with functioning business models for goods and services. The public should receive as much as possible for tax money with good quality. We will fight corruption and negligence. The Swedish Parliament has a great responsibility for ensuring that citizens' money comes to the greatest possible benefit. For the fifth time, the Swedish Procurement Authority and the Swedish Competition Authority have produced a joint report containing statistics on public procurement. The average number of tenderers per procurement has increased following reductions in previous years. In addition, the number of contracts with only one tenderer has decreased. That's good. That's more for the tax money. We Moderates want to commission the Procurement Authority to disseminate knowledge about the possibility of including life cycle analysis as a factor in public procurement. If we make better demands in public procurement, public consumption can also make a real contribution to climate change. Ultimately, climate-smart consumption is based on actual emissions throughout the chain. Sweden ranks as one of the world's most innovative and competitive economies. For a small trade-dependent country with long distances on the edge of Europe, a good business and innovation climate remains crucial. It is through trade that we have become one of the richest countries in the world, and it is through continued trade with others that we shall continue to be one of the richest countries in the world. We Moderates want more innovation and functional procurement in public services to continue to support the development that has made Sweden a rich country. Open procurement documents that demand function create creativity. By describing the function a product or service should have, you can get companies to think new. In this way, a good innovation climate can be created throughout the private sector. If we get better at purchasing function, taxpayers can get a lot more for their money. We can also obtain exports of this type of goods and services. It creates jobs and further prosperity in our country. Public procurement is a large part of the Swedish economy. How we design procurement documents affects Swedish companies to a large extent. One area that needs to be improved is the procurement of food in the public sector. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's farmers are subject to the EU's toughest environmental requirements and toughest animal protection. This is basically good but makes Swedish food more expensive to produce. This is the result of decisions taken by the Swedish Parliament. The problem is that the same politicians who have made decisions about the tougher environmental requirements and the tougher animal protection then opt out of Swedish food because it has become too expensive to produce. Instead, municipalities, regions and states buy food produced in other countries with lower environmental standards and lower animal welfare standards. Mr President, I would like to This is completely unreasonable. We should protect Swedish food production and the demands we place on Swedish farmers. The public sector should not be allowed to procure food produced with lower requirements than the Swedish legislation allows. In the autumn of 2019, the Moderate Party Meeting approved my and fellow party member Ida Eriksson's movements with this very meaning. I hope that more parties want to work with us Moderates for more Swedish food on the plate in schools, hospitals and in elderly care. Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I only ask for reservation l.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-174	Mr President, I would like to I've been watching a lot of horror movies this weekend. These films contained more blood and anxiety than the old '70s classic Carrie. The theme of all the films was torture chambers. The panic in the eyes of those subjected to torture was so evident that it penetrated the amateurly filmed scenes. Most victims were forced into a barrel where they were fixed so that they could not escape. The victims' heads were attached so that necks were exposed. Common in all the films was the executioner with the knife. He put his knife to the necks of the victims and sawed back and forth until he was satisfied. The necks were split as in two parts but still hung together. Blood was squirting everywhere. But the victims continued to live. I could see them blinking and trying to scream, but no sound came. On the other hand, I could hear how they tried to break free while the blood was pumped out of slit throats. It was nerves, arteries and food and windpipe that were cut off, but the knives still did not reach deep enough for the victims to lose consciousness. The blood continued to be pumped to the brains. Through the throats, I saw clearly how the victims tried to breathe. In some scenes, the victims were released. Then they staggered around, and only the vertebrae held the heads. Every second was disgusting to witness, and in some cases it took minutes before the victims finally met their fate and died of blood loss. In other scenes, the victims were hung up in one of their legs after the neck cut. Some of them were so strong that in this inverted position they swung back and forth to try to get loose. Some of the victims, who were still conscious when they were knocked out of the barrel, tried with their dangling heads to get up standing. The last thing that seemed to abandon them was the desire to escape from their executioners. Torture never seemed to end. The fact that the victims experienced distress, pain and suffering is beyond doubt. Mr President, I would like to These should have been scenes from a feature film or at worst from a history documentary. However, during the minutes I stand here in the speaker's chair, thousands of animals face this fate across many EU countries. Today we are debating the FiU34 report, Public Procurement. It is a report that contains a number of different areas, and it involves huge sums of money each year. Public procurement accounts for approximately 17% of GDP, excluding VAT. In cash it is about SEK 706 billion. It's the animal welfare I'm bringing up here today. With the stubbornness of a fool, I am raising the same subject as my colleague has done in previous years in the hope that this year Members of this House will say yes to the fact that, through public procurement, we will not continue to contribute to this barbaric way of slaughtering animals without prior stunning. Around 3 million meals are served daily in the public sector. It is a shame that, year after year, we in Parliament are discussing the fact that we continue to promote the existence of this painful slaughter method. Although many Members of this House share this view, nothing seems to happen. Mr President, I would like to Both within the Muslim and Jewish slaughter, sawing knife movements are permitted. How many moves you make with the knife affects the sensation of pain for the animal. One study observed a variation between l and 60 moves. There were fewer features for small animals and more for larger animals like cattle. At 180 degrees rotation in the thin I mentioned earlier, the animal is placed on the back, which means that the abdominal organs exert a massive pressure on the diaphragm and lungs. This, combined with the animal's being inside a barrel in a completely unnatural position, results in a major stress increase. Bound legs and suspension are now prohibited by law in all EU countries. However, reports show that these fixation methods are still being practised in the EU. How long does it take for an animal to lose consciousness without prior stunning? Several studies show that time varies greatly. The time for a cattle is between five seconds and one and a half minutes, but some studies show much longer than that. A Swedish veterinarian with great insight into undecided slaughter summarizes the approach in the following way: and In all other contexts, as a veterinarian, I would immediately be removed from my licence if I did something similar. ..................................................... Each year several hundred million animals are slaughtered in Europe alone by these grotesque methods. According to the European Commission, 75% of cattle are slaughtered in some EU countries without stunning, and in some countries all sheep and lambs are slaughtered with this approach. As late as the end of February this year, a recent film from a slaughterhouse in France was published on the Eurogroup for Animal website. There you slaughter 700 calves a day. 90 calves an hour end their lives through this grotesque type of slaughter — in a single slaughterhouse. The quantity of meat derived from animals slaughtered without stunning does not correspond to the number of people who, for religious reasons, require these methods of slaughter. The slaughter is cheaper and simplifies it all as it is possible to sell religiously slaughtered meat even to unsuspecting consumers who unwittingly maintain this form of animal cruelty. Sweden prohibits such animal cruelty, which should mean that in public procurement there should only be meat from animals slaughtered in accordance with Swedish animal welfare laws. This year too, the Committee on Finance rejects the motion for a resolution which wants to put an end to the import of meat from animals slaughtered without stunning. Among other things, reference is made to the ongoing work of the Procurement Authority. Mr President, I would like to No matter what the Procurement Authority finds out, I don't think that's enough. In this case, we need to make laws. Through clear and clear legislation, all companies that want to sell meat to Sweden through public procurement have the same rules to follow, i.e. we only buy meat from animals that have been stunned before slaughter. If there are any Members in this House who do not have problems with animal abuse of this kind, I have a further angle on the problem: how are the people who are tormenting these animals on a daily basis? How do you go home after wading in blood for a whole day and seeing the horror and pain in every animal's eyes? How is it affected by the day in and day out inflicting this unnecessary suffering on innocent animals? The Swedish Democrats believe that Sweden should not contribute to such working conditions. Mr President, I would like to I wonder if any Member would like the job of executioner with the knife. Who would be able to cut the throats of unneeded animals that fight for their lives all day long? Who would even be able to go after a single cow, no matter how well cut a knife you have at your disposal? The veterinary profession, brain physiologists and animal welfare organisations agree that large animals that are slaughtered without first being stunned are subjected to great suffering and distress. It is perfectly possible for public procurement to require animals to be stunned before slaughter while complying with the basic principles of EU law. Mr President, I would like to The question that Sweden's Members of Parliament should ask themselves is whether we are going to do everything in our power here to promote compliance with basic animal welfare or whether we are going to continue to promote this barbaric way of unjudged ritual slaughter. I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 8. It is not a day too early for us to really step down in the procurement of meat from animals that have been denied stunning before slaughter.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-198	Mr President, I would like to In the news of the week we were able to follow a report on how government agencies have unfortunately used companies that are on the World Bank's blacklist. These are companies that have used corruption as a business practice. These have been released by the National Board of Trade in so-called framework agreements. Then other authorities have used them and have thus got the companies into their business. Unfortunately, this is nothing new, but it has happened in the past that companies that would not actually perform tasks for state authorities have come in the wrong way. Tax revenue cannot be used to favour such companies. As I see it, clarification in the legislation would be needed in this regard. I hope the latest business leads to some reflection. The authorities, among other things, who are going to hunt eco-criminals, have suddenly themselves ended up in such a tangle. Some regulatory changes would be necessary so that we do not end up there again. Having said that, Mr President, I would like to mention our reservation in the report. This applies to reservation 13, and it is about how many subcontractors you can have in a procurement. The left-wing proposal is two. We want to prevent accidents, occupational injuries and fatal accidents. If public procurement is carried out today and there are subcontractors, there is also a principal with a coordinating responsibility. This one then has a lot of subcontractors who have their own responsibility for the work environment. If something happens in a workplace, it is obviously much more difficult to act together when very many different companies are there. The different companies can have different cultures in terms of working environment. They can have different insights and knowledge as well as of course different financial conditions for carrying out their work. The customer company has control over the place of work and is therefore responsible for matters relating to coordination, but not matters relating solely to the entrepreneur's working environment. We all know that in many activities, not least where the Public Procurement Act applies, such as tunnel work or construction sites, there are very many subcontractors. It will then be up to each employer to ensure that their employees have the right skills. Common to the fatal accidents that have occurred during the year is that adequate protective barriers, such as safety zones, fall protection and protective equipment, have not been in place or have worked. This may be due to ignorance but also to deliberate neglect, faults in equipment or machines that have not been maintained. All too often, important security procedures and measures do not seem to reach out to those concerned. This applies both in complex activities, such as construction sites, and when subcontractors come to a workplace to perform a temporary task. People from different employers with different corporate cultures gather to collaborate on projects, making security work even more complex. Since responsibility is completely fragmented, everyone will understand that it has consequences for the work environment with accidents at work, sometimes with a fatal outcome. Everything should be done to prevent this, and that is what our proposal is about. Subcontractors are, of course, a risk in themselves, with long chains of different companies taking different responsibilities. The Swedish Environmental Institute has allowed working-life researchers to interview companies that actually take greater responsibility for coordination than the legislation says they need to do. The interviews have concluded that there are shortcomings in the requirements for public procurement in relation to the work environment itself. On the one hand, there is no follow-up of incidents and workplace accidents. So no action is taken after the incidents or accidents, so they can happen again. The Institute has also concluded that one of the proposals to be implemented – in addition to having better requirements and follow-up – is a limitation of the number of subcontractors, as these involve an increased risk. My starting point is that a responsible parliament with responsible parties should have approved such a motion. Unfortunately, however, this is not happening. We get roughly the same answer as we got last year: there is coordination with wages. Yes, it's great that the main contractor takes responsibility for ensuring that the employees receive their salaries. But why should there not be a principal responsible for thus shortening the chains so that the risks to the working environment are reduced? Then we would have been able to prevent more incidents and workplace accidents. It also wishes that we could put an end to the fatal accidents. Our proposal had at least taken another important step. I therefore request the approval of Amendment No 13.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-209	Mr President, I would like to During the last parliamentary term, the Social Democratic-led Government took many important steps in public procurement. It established the Procurement Authority and decided on a national procurement strategy, and on 1 January 2017, the new procurement legislation entered into force. This has meant that today we have more comprehensive legislation in this area. But we also know that there are additional things that need to be done and a lot that are currently being handled at the Government Office. The value of procurement obligations in Sweden is estimated at just over SEK 700 billion annually. In other words, a lot of money is being used in the system. For us Social Democrats, it is important that these tax funds are used in the best possible way. Procurement is an important instrument for achieving social policy objectives. Taking environmental and social considerations into account in procurement contributes to sustainable development and to achieving national environmental quality objectives. The new legislation, the introduction of the Procurement Authority, with the work to inform, provide support and guidance, and the work on the procurement strategy have increased the knowledge of more authorities and other contracting activities about procurement but also about how to procure more strategically. In today's report, which we are debating, there are several reservations. One is about social criteria, social enterprises and the ability of non-profit organisations to provide welfare services. The current legislation allows social considerations to be taken into account in public procurement. During the last term of office, it was decided on the proposal "Enhanced permit requirements and specific rules for welfare procurement", which included proposals on the possibility of reserving certain procurements to idea-based operators and proposals for simplified procurement rules for procurements of welfare services below the threshold of the EU Directive. In December 2019, the Idéburen Welfare Report was presented. The investigation was set up by the Government in autumn 2018 and has been tasked with developing a proposal for a clear definition of idead actors, which can be used to identify and delineate these from other actors in welfare activities and other related publicly funded or subsidised activities. The investigation is currently under discussion, and the responsible minister has said that the proposals will form an important basis for the Government's continued work. Today's report also contains reservations about animal welfare and food production. 3 million meals are served each day in health care, school and care. This means that municipalities, regions and government authorities have a great responsibility to impose requirements on animal welfare and food production. In the procurement legislation, it is possible for public procurement to set animal welfare requirements in line with Swedish legislation. Nevertheless, not everyone makes these demands. We need to take greater responsibility for ensuring that the food served at our preschools, schools, retirement homes and more is of good quality. We shall also be able to guarantee that animals have been treated in a dignified way and that they are not packed with antibiotics. Here there are great differences between animals that are raised in Sweden and animals in many other countries. The government is currently investigating how the legislation can be designed taking into account, among other things, EU legislation and international commitments. The government wants it to be mandatory for all procurements of animal food to require that production has taken place with a high level of animal welfare and low use of antibiotics. This is obviously good for us as consumers, but it is also good for Swedish agriculture and Swedish food production. The high demands on the environment and health that we have in Sweden and that the Swedish farmers live up to should not be a competitive disadvantage to those foreign producers who do not reach the same level. One of the seven objectives of the national procurement strategy is legally secure public procurement. An important part of this is that contracting authorities carry out proper supplier reviews both prior to contract writing and during day-to-day management in order not to get rogue suppliers in public contracts. Contracting authorities already have an obligation in the procurement laws to control and exclude suppliers who do not meet the requirements or who have committed any of the offences specified in the law. For framework agreements, ongoing checks are carried out during the duration of the contract. Currently, work is under way in the Government Office to investigate how these supplier trials can be facilitated. The report contains a reservation from the Left Party which highlights long subcontracting chains. As a general rule, it wants to limit the number of subcontractors to a maximum of two, on the grounds that it wants to tackle major shortcomings in the working environment and working conditions and that undeclared work, tax evasion and low-wage competition are common in certain sectors. Today there are provisions on labour law conditions in the legislation. This means that the conditions must also be met by subcontractors who are directly involved in the performance of contracts. This applies regardless of the number of intermediate stages between the supplier and its subcontractors. The Government has also commissioned Statskontoret to monitor and analyse how government agencies have worked to set employment law conditions in their procurements. This assignment will be reported in December this year. For us social democrats, order and order on the Swedish labour market are self-evident. This is also why, during the last term of office, the government has taken a number of measures to combat labour crime. One example is that eight authorities, including the police and the Swedish Tax Agency, have been given a government mandate to work together with controls against unhealthy competition. This joint work of the agency is an important part of the work to combat the serious crime in Sweden. Sweden's Byggindustrier and Bygg have started work together with other actors around the country to increase knowledge and curb unsound competition. We also have the regional safety ombudsman activities, joint training efforts and increased resources for the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Right now, a proposal to grant regional safety representatives increased access rights is on the table of the Riksdag. I hope that this whole House can support that proposal, but we get signals that not all parties do. I sincerely hope that we will see this in the future. Mr President, I would like to Much has been done in recent years to advance the positions in the procurement sector in order to achieve more sustainable economic, ecological and social development. But there is, of course, more to be done in this area, and there are several proposals that are currently being prepared within the Government Office. With this, Mr President, I would like to endorse the proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-224	Mr President, I would like to In view of the applause, it has to be said that it was a very popular and appreciated speech. Gunilla Carlsson talks about the work that took place during the last parliamentary term and that our parties did together. Unfortunately, we were not able to reach quite as far as we wanted. We wanted to go further on protecting workers' conditions, for example through collective agreements. But the bourgeoisie and the Swedish democrats are not so fond of standing up for workers' rights. That is why those proposals fell. While we are in this Chamber spending some pleasant time together, I thought I should take the opportunity to ask why the Social Democrats want long sub-contracting chains. For whose sake? The longer the chains are, the more difficult it is, for example, to control and get coordination – it is well known. Mr President, I would like to My question to Gunilla Carlsson is: Why do you not want to limit the number of subcontractors? Why do we want these long subcontracting chains when we also know the consequences of accidents, occupational injuries and fatal accidents?
i-HU5sRxPrhMvyfLFuCJgG4U	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ulla Andersson, for the question. I am delighted that during the last parliamentary term we were able to take important steps. I am also a little sorry that we did not get the majority in this House to become even sharper in terms of labour law conditions in public procurement. I guess we'll just have to keep working on that. As far as subcontracting chains are concerned, the labour market today looks quite different from what it did in the past. Today we have quite a few perhaps smaller companies that come in and get assignments when making large public procurements. We have a main contractor who stands as the guarantor of the procurement itself. Then other companies come under. This is a change that has taken place in the labour market. I think it's hard to back down and say you should only have two subcontractors. Having said that, it is not that we should in any way accept that those who come in as subcontractors have worse conditions in terms of working environment but also other conditions in the labour market. What the government is doing now is important. You go in properly and look at this. The employer has an occupational safety and health responsibility. You can never get out of that. That's the responsibility. Then we must ensure that the authorities check it, but also that we make clear demands in the procurement procedures. We can never accept that there should be precarious employment with the risk of, for example, death's accidents but also damage to the workplace. It's a job. It is about the safety representative activities, information but also many other different parts. They must have proper support and rules on how to work outside.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-233	Mr President, I would like to Well, the job market looks different. That's it. But the legislators responsible can try to influence reality. Politics is to want, someone once said. That's pretty wise to say. It should still govern policy, not least on such important issues as health and safety at work with the incidents that occur when it looks like it does. There are many times very responsible companies that do more than they need under the legislation. Unfortunately, however, there are also a great many companies that are not even doing what they are supposed to do under the legislation. That is the reality. Although the agency has its assignments, both Gunilla Carlsson and I know that it is not enough. There are too many workplaces that are unattended and do not receive the necessary inspections. We also know that many employers do not have a collective agreement or even a hanger agreement, but drive completely without a contract and do little what they want with the employees. Therefore, it would be reasonable to look at how to limit the number of subcontractors as it has consequences. It even has consequences in terms of fatal accidents at work. We have workplace accidents that we would not otherwise have had, and we have incidents. Therefore, I still think that the government parties, in this case the Social Democrats, should take this on board, look at the issue and see if there is a need to change the legislation. We believe that this is necessary and that this is a proposal that would affect the possibilities of limiting both workplace accidents, incidents and fatal accidents.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-238	Mr President, I would like to I share Ulla Andersson's view that we can never accept that people are exposed to a bad working environment in their workplace. Here the government is now making great efforts, because we can never accept it. Then, when it comes to making changes in subcontracting chains, you may have to look further at it. But we are making a great deal of effort with regard to the authorities. You go out and inspect. Work should not be carried out without good protective equipment and other things. It is also about the proposal that is now lying with the regional safety ombudsmen. They should be given the opportunity to enter workplaces even if there are no collective agreements in the workplace. I think that is a very important part of the continued work together with the authorities in different parts being able to go in and control the subcontractors but also those who are main contractors. It is also a question of the fact that the procurement process is clear about the requirements of labour law that can be made in the procurement process. Here we have the Procurement Authority that works actively. It can certainly do even more to inform all employers who receive public procurement contracts that they have that responsibility and that we set those requirements.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-243	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. Sweden is a country that was early with its electricity infrastructure. The first electricity plant was already built in 1884 in Gothenburg by the privately owned Electric AB and delivered power to 1,000 light bulbs, mainly to shops and restaurants in Gothenburg. In Stockholm, the first electricity came in 1892 with the city-owned Brunkebergsverket. In 1893, the world's first commercial power transmission line was commissioned about 15 kilometres long between Hällsjön waterfalls and the mines in Grängesberg in Bergslagen, a construction developed by an Asea engineer. The Swedish electricity market has a long history. At that time, just as now, technology was an engineering product, and there was both private and public ownership. Our early deployment of electricity infrastructure also presents challenges today. We had an early expansion of the electricity grid and now have in many places an aged electricity grid that needs to be replaced and strengthened. There are problems locally, and there are challenges ahead to be able to deliver the electricity needed. Mr President, I would like to Our electricity grid needs to be expanded, which is why we believe that an impact study needs to be set up as a matter of urgency. It should be an impact study that takes its bearings in today's shortcomings but also in tomorrow's needs and challenges. With a more inclusive electrification of our society, where both heavy industry and our heavy traffic are changing to electrification, there are challenges. We Moderates believe in development, that we achieve our climate goals through research and new technologies. With our view of social responsibility, where infrastructure and accessible energy are the foundation of our welfare society, we see major challenges. Only if we can fully meet these challenges and continue to develop can we maintain and develop the welfare society we want to maintain. Sweden's prosperity has been based on access to cheap, secure electricity for our industries and companies as well as our entire welfare sector. That is by no means self-evident in many other countries. That is something we must protect and work to keep. Mr President, I would like to What needs to be done? Our grid needs to be expanded. In order to do so in the best possible way, it is also good that an impact assessment is carried out. It should be an impact study that develops needs, weaknesses in current electricity grids, but also a vision for the future electricity market. It is a study that also needs to highlight how we make the best use of the electrical energy we have and how we protect the basic production of electricity that must always be there. Because we need to distinguish between intermittent electricity produced by the sun and wind and basic energy produced by nuclear power and water. The government has so far turned a blind eye to the challenges that exist and counted pears and apples in the same way, that is, it is believed that it is possible to heat a sauna with sun and wind in the middle of winter on a cold night when it is still at wind. I can tell you it's not working. We need delivery security targets. How else can we switch our heavy industry to electrical energy if the energy does not come when it is needed? Industrial processes cannot be paused. These processes, like so many other processes in society, require a continuous and large flow of energy. We also need a clear responsibility for security of supply. Who is obliged to ensure that electricity is in sufficient quantity, and who should have paid for that responsibility? Mr President, I would like to We also want from the Moderates to commission Swedish power networks to plan for and build a third cable for Gotland – this because we see it as a social responsibility that all parts of the country actually have access to the electrical energy needed. Only then can we continue to be competitive as a nation. Access to fossil-free, cheap and secure electricity is a key for Sweden's economy as a country and also locally in the country. Only then can we continue to develop as a welfare nation.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-254	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 6 in the report. As I said, this report deals with electricity market issues, or in many cases, rather with the lack of a proper market. Because despite the re-regulation of the electricity market in the late 1990s, it is far from being protected from political clout. Today we have a number of market-disrupting elements with differences in property tax for electricity generation plants, investment aid for solar cells, electricity certification systems for renewable power generation, exemptions from energy taxation for self-production, differential taxes and charges on fuels and emissions, reduced feed-in fees for small-scale producers, tax reductions for micro-generation of electricity, government grants for renewable electricity generation and more. Until recently, we also had an impact tax on nuclear power. Many of these deviations from more market-based pricing do not lead to rational measures and in many cases do not solve the technical or physical problems that exist. For a long time, the Swedish Democrats have stressed that the deviations must be removed if we are to have a long-term sustainable electricity market. One of the major problems with the energy agreement that has now been broken was that the causes of the energy market crisis were also circumvented. Instead, it proposed more of what caused the crisis from the outset, namely additional market-distorting subsidies for electricity generation that the market has not requested. However, when our proposal to push the Ringhals l and 2 further appeared to be winning the voice of the House, from the left, we quickly started to gasseve about market intervention and to give a scolding about socialism – something that is perhaps right for the current government, which is pursuing a policy that is obviously aimed at high-income earners. None of these, on the other hand, criticised the government, or rather themselves, when it ordered Vattenfall to suspend the plans for the construction of new nuclear power. Nor was it when it expressed its intention to take a holistic approach to the state company and its governance in order to increase the share of renewable energy. Nor was it when the company's financial targets were adjusted and the requirements for profits in the company were reduced. Will it stay here? Instead, even more extensive interventions are still being sketched, such as the abolition of offshore wind connection charges and continued support for solar cells, even though the industry itself has not asked for or wants them. Further reductions in energy taxation have also been introduced. Madam President, I would like Has the policy of the government and the Green fanatics led to a reduction in fossil dependence in the power sector? No, it hasn't. Has it improved the security of supply and the robustness of the power system? No, it hasn't. In the power balance reports we have now slipped down on negative values for power supply. You have to go back to the 70s to be able to find similar situations with power shortages such as those we now run the risk of getting into. At the same time, we can see worrying signs of insufficient balance in the power system and a deterioration in the quality of electricity as more and more major synchronous generators have left the power grid. Nor has the fossil share decreased in the power system since subsidies to renewables have gone away. Instead, time, energy and, above all, much capital have been devoted to replacing fossil-free power production with renewables. That is something that has hardly served us well in the effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which is clearly by no means the primary objective of these forces. Or you just happen to fail with it once and for all, and it's expensive as well. What, then, can be done in the near future of what is being dealt with within the framework of the report? Once again, the Swedish Democrats propose that the electricity certification system be phased out by not assigning additional installations any electricity certificates. This aid scheme has led to a self-suffering market where the profitability of investments and renovation of existing installations is difficult to achieve. Even so-called renewables suffer as subsidies are no longer sufficient. Our view is that we have reached an end point with the current system. The existing system should be abandoned in its present form, and we shall ensure that this can lead to a reduction in market intervention on the part of the policy. If we are to reduce our fossil share in different sectors, it is clear that it should be done by means of electrification, as our power system has been exclusively fossil-free for a long time. We can see that developments in the transport sector are moving at an accelerated pace towards a higher degree of electric power, either with fuel cells or with batteries. We see new potential businesses such as fossil-free steel production in Sweden, while new electricity-intensive activities are emerging with the establishment of server halls and battery plants that will further increase the electricity demand. It is also the conclusion from the work that Fossil-free Sweden has done and where the roadmaps from the different industries clearly indicate that it will increase its use of electricity. The availability of electricity is already directly crucial today and something that we take for granted in the same way that the water should always come in the faucet at home. Yet there is no player who has the overall responsibility for the security of supply in Sweden. This is something that the Swedish Democrats think is unreasonable from the outset. We have also received support in the Riksdag for our proposal to introduce such an objective within the framework of energy policy – an objective that policy can steer towards. However, little has happened since the announcement was addressed. Therefore, we now think it is reasonable for the government to return to Parliament on this matter by 2020. The government seems to be more eager to drag the matter down and do nothing. In order for this development of society with electrification to be possible and able to thrive, it is crucial that electricity exists when it is needed.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-272	Madam President, I would like Electricity market issues tend to live in a rather evasive environment. But lately – the last year and perhaps even the last few years – it has been different. It is very welcome, especially when you are able to keep the concepts separate and see solutions instead of getting stuck in old wheel tracks and plan economic planning of power plants. If we can really start talking about a market, there are also great solutions. Because it is precisely the electricity market and conditions and regulations around what we are going to debate – not the will to build new or maintain old nuclear power plants. It is also unclear for what money the Swedish democrats should do this. In that case, this market becomes rather a planned economic market, which there is more of in China and the old Soviet Union. The scenarios that the Swedish Energy Agency has developed for the future show that if we allow the market to control and remove subsidies – for example, we will close the electricity certification system – we will be able to do this. Then market forces will be able to reverse. This is classical liberal bourgeois politics. By allowing the market to govern, it also frees up the innovation potential that exists. It is about the things that today do not get loose because they are being slowed down. They are curbed by fixed taxes rather than flexible ones, and they are curbed by network regulation which is not adapted to current developments. When those things – innovation potential, technological development and the technology that already exists – can start to be used to solve the challenges we have, it will also happen. We in the Riksdag should not choose which technology is best suited to solve problems with, for example, deficit in system services. Those who are responsible for them will do so. Swedish power networks should be given a much clearer responsibility there. When the market prevails, it will also be possible to be more flexible. Timing should become more common. Basically, everyone in Sweden should have hourly measurement when all electrical meters are rolled out in 2025. Then you also get the chance to be flexible and to use electricity more when there is plenty of electricity in the system and sometimes move their production and use when there is less electricity in the system. The whole project with Hybrid, i.e. fossil-free steel, which the Swedish Democrats mentioned, is based on the fact that we have very flexible electricity prices and very renewable in the system. This makes prices sometimes low, so that you can produce a lot of hydrogen. The whole business idea is based on it. You do not want stable, high prices, you want variable prices, so that you can produce when the price is low. A flexible electricity tax is needed. The network companies need permission to be involved in moving customers' use on time – of course with their own consent – and they should be paid for it. It has been tried in Uppsala, for example: If you reduce electricity grid costs, the energy cost for the consumer goes down by 15 per cent, and you experience a better indoor climate even though it has not affected the temperature inside by more than 0.1 degrees. In fact, it is quite unnecessary for your water heater or heat pump to go fully when you are not at home. It is classic energy efficiency – using things when they are needed and not when they are not needed. This can be created if we have the right market conditions. This can then be combined with the possibility of creating local micro-networks. It is about producing energy that is not only good for the electricity system but also from a security policy point of view – having 100,000 small plants is better from a security policy perspective than having ten big – and having some backup if something falls and in the event of a crisis. Not least in these days, we know that we should be prepared for the unpredictable. However, there is a risk that system services will be more needed in the future if some power plants fall off. For this reason, Svenska Kraftnät has developed new markets for support services. For example, we are currently developing rapid frequency regulation and purchasing it, just as we are supposed to. The fact that we would go in politically and give compensation to certain power plants or other things because we think they will be needed is quite the wrong approach. The bourgeois parties want the Swedish power grid to be assigned to be responsible for the long-term balance of the electricity system. It would have been welcome if the Swedish democrats had also followed on, given that the pulpit says that they want it that way. Swedish power networks are the experts. They can see where the needs are and develop the markets for it. So do they. I do not believe that we in Parliament should decide which deficit exists and which is not. On the other hand, there is a deficit in the willingness to deal with the long state processes. This is something that is often thrown away. It is said that it is important to shorten the licensing processes, but few parties really do have any concrete proposals. We in the Center Party want to set a goal for us to halve the times of permit processes. It may take a decade from the planning of an electric cable to the actual implementation. Start-up, industrial start-up and other things will suffer in the meantime. The green transition that society not only wants but also demands of businesses is also slowed down by society itself by taking far too long. What we in the Center Party would definitely like to see is a green trail in the state-of-the-art processes, where it is quicker for those who make environmentally sound investments to move forward in environmental assessments and various types of service tasks to authorities that could also make a real difference. It's possible to get fast environmental permits– Northvolt got its in six months. Why, then, should it be so difficult for some others? We're gonna need some force. We can see that it's possible. The government had crisis packages for Malmö and Stockholm when they started discussing power shortages there. The big question is really: Why only in Stockholm and Malmö? Gotland has had problems for a decade. In 2018 and 2019 there were 18 total interruptions on the whole island. Why isn't this important, the government? Why do you have crisis packages when there can potentially be problems in Stockholm and Malmö? Is Gotland not as much worth, and is Gotland's electricity supply not as current? The process of getting a third power cable to Gotland was also well advanced when the Swedish power grid stopped it. This cable is absolutely vital, not only for the island's energy supply and exports, but also for the possibility for heavy industry to switch to climate-smart alternatives and, not least, for security reasons. It is about getting more redundancy in the system and knowing that you are not dependent on just the cables that exist today. We need a move here, and that is what we in the Center Party are pushing for. We are still waiting for the initiatives taken by other parties in the electoral movement to be realised in reality. Our commitment does not close at the same time as the ballot box. But let me sum up, Madam President: let the energy market be a market. To a greater extent, give responsibility to Svenska Kraftnät when it comes to managing the long-term balance, because they are the experts. They know which system services are needed and shape the market accordingly. If there is a deficit, they should be procured – you should not by definition pay blindly to power teams that you think should receive favors, because this is something that Swedish consumers, Swedish industry and Swedish competitiveness will lose out on because we have to pay unnecessarily. We in the Center Party are not prepared to pay unnecessarily. We protect Swedish consumers, the Swedish industry and Swedish households. With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 9.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-294	Madam President, I would like As you can see, I have sat in the middle of the House today – not where I usually sit between the government parties and the Green Party. This time it was for special reasons, and this will be noted by Members in my speech. This is about the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 10 on electricity market issues. The cases we handle may relate to the design and functioning of the electricity market, objectives or responsibility for security of supply and security and planning for the future electricity market and, last but not least, Gotland's electricity supply. With regard to Gotland's electricity supply, there are currently two cables for electricity supply to and from the mainland, which is not sufficient in relation to the capacity requirements that exist. In recent years it has become clear that Gotland's electricity supply does not meet the needs. The island has suffered more and more total interruptions. If you search with the words, there will be lots of writings and headlines, clearly more than for other parts of the country. I understand that not everything is due to the lack of the third cable, but much can be related to capacity shortages when there is total disruption. The report states that the Board of Swedish Power Networks decided in May 2017 to conclude work on the previously planned new connection to Gotland. The main reason for the decision was that the socio-economic utility analysis – taste the word: Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the government representatives what they see as crucial in a utility analysis. I would like to state with determination that there are endless investments and priorities that are being made and that would definitely need a utility analysis. I wonder where the utility comes in when RUT and ROT cost 20 billion and the abolition of the military tax 6 billion. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask representatives of the Green Party whether they have made a comparison of the utility of the over billion spent on subsidies for electric bicycles. Has it provided as much climate benefit as it would if Cementa were to drive its Cemzero project, as it is said, where the target is zero emissions in 2030? Madam President, I would like It is clear today that Cementa needs reliability and transmission capacity to complete the Cemzero project. Do not forget that their emissions are the second largest in Sweden when it comes to individual emitters! The fact that the state then does not take its share of the responsibility for reducing greenhouse gas emissions is quite incomprehensible if you ask me. Cementa wants to do everything they can, but then we need a reliable infrastructure for the electricity supply to Gotland. Last but not least, it concerns the expansion of wind power, which could contribute 100% renewablely to 2040. On Gotland there is a positive desire for wind power expansion, but there is a lack of capacity in the network. The government's position will then become even more incomprehensible if you ask me. Madam President, I would like I come back to the decision that I related to, what the Board of Swedish Power Networks took in May 2017. I wonder if the Swedish power grid and the government had the picture clear: If Cementa's production volume were to be at the same level as today, it would take ten times more electricity than today if their production were to be electrified and they would thus be removed from greenhouse gas emissions. Then I have to touch on the particular opinion of the Swedish Democrats. There you can read about how important they are about the importance of socially profitable investments. There is much one could say about what positions Sweden has made that have made Sweden one of the richest countries in the world. Madam President, I would like Naturally, I am in favour of reservation 9 and I now place the responsibility on you Members of the Swedish Parliament to vote so that greenhouse gas emissions in Sweden can be radically reduced – and this only at the push of a button this afternoon.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-306	Madam President, I would like Birger Lahti touched on our specific opinion in the report on Gotland's electricity supply. This is precisely about the desire for a third cable to Gotland. Of course, everyone in Sweden should be able to expect access to electricity. Security of supply is something that is important. This is something that the policy should be more concerned with and for which the European Union should set targets. The Left Party has opposed that. They do not want such targets for security of supply. Birger Lahti made quite a point in his speech on socio-economic assessments. He may now mean that you should not lean on them. Then it is very strange that the Left Party and Birger Lahti voted for it when a united committee landed in that Swedish power grid should lean more towards such assessments. It was probably also the basis for the decision made by the Swedish power grid – that the socio-economic costs far exceed the benefits that this may entail. As a result, work was not continued. Then, of course, these cables will not exist forever – there will be technical problems. New cables will be built when the old ones need to be replaced. Then you get into the issues of capacity and the like. It is about what one should be able to house in these and how much effect is involved. Rather, that is the crux of the matter. If you want to produce a lot of wind power on the island, there is every possibility for companies and stakeholders to pay, if it is so profitable, for the connection to the main grid on the mainland. Do you regret the decision that has been made, or do you not think that Swedish power networks should stick to the socio-economic analyses when they make network investments?
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-311	Madam President, I would like I think that the Swedish Democrats and, above all, you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, are driving energy issues in a respectful way. You have nuclear power and always push the question. As far as socio-economic investments are concerned, Madam President, I cannot help but ask the Swedish Democrats how it came to be that they were forced to give orders to Vattenfall to operate reactors which they themselves said are not socially profitable. There's a lot I could relate to. Sweden has been good at making investments, and society has become as it has become because it has really seen the benefits of society later on. That is why I reacted to the fact that socio-economic profitability is suddenly very important. I'm very grateful for that. But when it came to the Ringhals nuclear reactors, there were many indications that they were not profitable. In the short term, they would solve some of the issues of impact, but in the long term that is not the case. Everyone claims that this is not the future. Then I'll come back a little bit to why I'm reacting. How do you calculate that it is economically profitable to push these two reactors forward by force? With regard to the cable to Gotland, you refer to the Swedish power grid. It is grateful that the Swedish Democrats have also realised that the climate issue is important. Here we have the largest emitter, who would need capacity. And yet you say no.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-315	Madam President, I would like As regards socio-economic analyses of Ringhals 1 and 2, it was an initiative in committee to look at what the socio-economic components look like when it comes to driving the reactors further. The Left Party voted against this. There are also motion proposals that will be discussed to explore the socio-economic potential for further operation of the reactors. They did not want to look at this from other parties. We have taken this up in committee and we will deal with it in the spring. Birger Lahti and the Left Party are welcome to support the initiative. Then you should look at: Are the reactors socially profitable to drive further? Business-economically, that is another aspect. Of course, you can earn more money from politically-decided subsidies, which you can rely on, than from running existing plants further. I think it is perhaps a slightly different issue, but in the same way we go into detail here and highlight projects that have been pointed out as very unprofitable from a socio-economic point of view. It's different what you want to achieve. Is it about being able to transfer production capacity from Gotland to the mainland, or is it about being able to ensure that it is a good supply security for those who are electricity consumers on Gotland? One may have to consider more deeply which is the most important thing. We think that it is primarily about households and industry being able to expect that there is good supply of electricity no matter where you live or are in the country. But perhaps that is another aspect of expanding production. Then it is possible for these companies to connect themselves to the core network, where it is possible to transfer that capacity. Will the Left Party and Birger Lahti, when the committee deals with this in the spring, support a socio-economic assessment of the conditions for at least driving Ringhals 1 further?
i-X5F1vmSkJ8iYUq1mqMyUSd	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for the debate on the Gotland cable! The Swedish Democrats do not support an investment that would clearly contribute to reducing emissions in Sweden. It's the second biggest emitter that needs the cable. There you refer to the national economy. I can relate to many issues where I think this should be taken into account. But we do not support the fact that a reactor should be forced to continue to operate by political means. It is said that that is not the future. That is not what the world is asking for either. Soon wind power will be out of power in terms of production. I agree that it is not as safe as nuclear power when it is tough and it happens to work. But no, I will disappoint you on this issue. I will not vote in favour of the proposal for a mandate to look at whether the reactors can be further driven.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-322	Madam President, I would like Is Sweden's electrical system under pressure? In some ways it is absolutely so. The other day I read about Stena, a company with advanced plans to use more electricity when driving ships. Claes Berglund at Stena, however, lacked the necessary guarantees that the electricity supply will be sufficient and says, "We are concerned that there will not be enough capacity in the electricity grid to implement our efforts. ..................................................... Last year the crisis became acute in Skåne and Mälardalen. The shortcomings of the electrical system became a wet blanket. Companies were worried and were told negative things. Investments were compromised. Unfortunately, at the same time, the government deteriorated the conditions for cogeneration to such an extent that it had to pull out and extinguish what it had caused itself. Long-term solutions are still lacking, and this could become the reality of more regions in the future. Margins and hence the security of the system have reduced certain times of the year, as planned power has disappeared. In addition, we know that the industry's path to fossil freedom goes through a common denominator: more electricity. As I said, electricity networks are a concern. Our nets have many years on their necks. Population growth, electric vehicles, more variable production and new electricity-intensive industries require investments – around SEK 150 billion by 2030. Today's long state processes and lead times of 10 to 15 years must be radically shortened. The report from last year makes welcome proposals. However, as the industry has also pointed out, the gains in time are insufficient. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that an impact study should be set up to ensure that the design of the electricity market contributes to a more stable electricity system and an adequate expansion of the electricity grid. In order to ensure the availability and quality of electricity, the basic power is central. We see that today's market model does not sufficiently stimulate security of supply. Today, the energy market pays, but there are no incentives to provide quality or effect, that is enough at a given moment. An electricity system where you pay for these characteristics would, we believe, become more robust. The model should therefore be reviewed. We believe that the system must be characterised by planning, which would help, for example, to compensate nuclear power for its important contribution. The deteriorating margins we see in winter do not benefit competitiveness. A target for security of supply is necessary, as the Riksdag decided last year. However, it is not yet in place. The announcement exists, and we are now calling on the government to return to Parliament on this matter by 2020. Responsibility for security of supply needs to be made clearer. There is currently a lack of a designated operator that fully ensures that the electricity system provides sufficient and high quality electricity. I would like to endorse Amendment No 6 in the report. Madam President, I would like The climate and industry stand and fall with increased electricity generation. The Swedish business community, through its report, shows an electricity consumption of at least 200 terawatt hours in 2045. Planning for future electricity needs should be increased and, as a result, the market should be given the right conditions for new production. In addition to a balanced starting point for planning and implementing a developed electricity market, safety is crucial for electricity networks. Swedish power grids are responsible for the core network. The remaining parts of the electricity grid are owned and operated by many different actors. As I said, access to electricity was essential for a functioning society. It can be easy to put a country under heavy pressure if neither IT infrastructure nor other infrastructure works because of the failure of electricity supply. I therefore believe that the Riksdag should announce to the Government that it will give the Swedish Energy Agency and Swedish power networks the task of reviewing the safety and risks of the electricity grids in Sweden being attacked. Madam President, I would like Security of electricity supply shall apply to the whole country. A lot of people who've been up here say the same thing. This also applies, of course, to Gotland. The island has experienced power outages after power outages. Two cables are not enough to guarantee the electricity needed. The roof is reached, and a third cable connecting the island to the main grid would be needed. Gotland also has an important cement industry. Cementa is the country's second largest CO2 emitter and could, with electrification, reduce its emissions. Gotland is also strategic in defence. We Christian Democrats believe that Swedish power networks should be given the task of resuming work on a third cable between the mainland and Gotland. Swedish electricity generation has long been our advantage. That's how it has to stay. But then we need an electricity market that meets the needs: the right electricity in the right place at the right time.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-339	Madam President, I would like When I listen to the Christian Democrats, I get a little confused. I hope Camilla Brodin can straighten out the question marks. In a reservation – which we support, because it is a very good reservation – we want the Swedish power grid to be given the long-term responsibility for the balance in the electricity system. That is reasonable, because today there is no one who has that responsibility. However, in another reservation together with the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates, the Christian Democrats want the Riksdag to decide which types of services and what security of supply to pay for. But if it is now the Swedish power grid that should be responsible for maintaining the balance, why should the Riksdag decide which services are needed? What makes Camilla Brodin better know about it than Swedish power grids, which she wants to be responsible for?
i-PrSDAochhs5TDXfTKSxju3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for the question! This is not the first time we have discussed these issues. We know that we are facing many different challenges in the future, and we Christian Democrats believe that it is extremely important that we also take responsibility for implementing the delivery security target that we made an announcement about here in Parliament last year. We do not see that it has been fulfilled yet. Together we point out the Swedish power grid for the assignment, but we also want to see a market that takes responsibility for a robustness throughout the electricity system. It is not we who should decide in detail how. However, we see that the challenges are there and we want to take responsibility for it to become a reality.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-344	Madam President, I would like I don't think Camilla Brodin answered my question. If Swedish power grids are to be responsible for long-term sustainability, it has nothing to do with the delivery safety objective. It is perhaps something they could aim for. If Swedish power grids are to be responsible for long-term sustainability, why should we in the Riksdag decide which support services they will procure? They are doing this today, and they can have an extended mission. We agree on that. But that we in Parliament should decide in what way they should procure or what they need to procure sounds as if we should try to pilla in the technology that we should not make expert assessments about. This is exactly what the Swedish power grid should be commissioned to do. Why, Camilla Brodin, do the Christian Democrats want the Riksdag to take over the responsibility that they want to put on the Swedish power grid at the same time? This doesn't make any sense.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-347	Madam President, I would like We see that in the future we need more electricity and not less if we are to meet the climate challenges. Then it's important to raise your eyes and see how the whole system should work together. We must ensure that we have a designated actor who takes responsibility. With our model, we believe that we can ensure that we have enough power and capacity where the market is not functioning today. We want to make that clear.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-349	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 7. It is not really a good sign that we need to have a debate on the electricity grid in this House. The functioning of the electricity grid is absolutely fundamental in our modern society. The electricity grid and the electricity supply are not something we should have political debates about. Electricity market issues must be based on the needs of society and the importance of electricity supply for our competitiveness as an industrial nation. In addition, these issues are a key factor in coping with the climate challenges we see. But we are in a situation where we cannot feel certain that the electricity supply is working. On the whole, we agree that there are problems, and it is, after all, this congregation that is responsible for solving them. But there are still politicians in the H is the Assembly that acts as if electricity grids and electricity generation are some kind of ideological station where you can test your ideas and isolate yourself from different forms of cooperation. The problem is that experiments and isolation have consequences. High power quality is a Swedish competitive advantage that must be protected. Our electrical system will continue to be characterised by high security of supply. The good and stable supply of fossil-free energy is and will continue to be an argument for running operations in Sweden. But things are going the wrong way. There is no guarantee that the electricity supply will work. In many parts of the country, companies cannot expand. Large companies are opting out of Sweden because of the insufficient electricity supply. In this situation, the government and several parties in the Riksdag continue to aggravate the situation by actively combating stable electricity production. Not only is the electricity supply insufficient, it is also becoming unreliable. The ambition level for Swedish energy policy must be to ensure Swedish competitiveness and to really tackle the climate challenges. It is high time we took action on security of supply. People should be able to rely on electricity to work. Electricity shortages should not limit people's lives in Sweden. We know that the security of electricity supply will not be guaranteed in future winters. Swedish power grids and a number of other actors are trying in every way to raise awareness of upcoming power shortages cold days coming winters. From the Liberals' point of view, it is clear that there is now a need for a security of supply target that takes into account society's needs and the impact of energy policy objectives on our competitiveness as an industrial nation and on the climate. It is therefore gratifying that more parties are now following our proposal for a delivery safety target. As I said, E lbrist should not restrict people's lives in Sweden. Those affected live and work mainly in central and southern Sweden. Lack of security of supply risks causing serious damage to both industry and households, and it will cost money. Gotland is an interesting example. Gotland was described as recently as a few years ago as our laboratory for a hundred percent renewable. The example of Gotland would show how the electricity supply works when the weather controls, fru President. The short answer was – not. There are recurring power cuts on Gotland, and they have tempted the islanders' patience and hit hard on the island's industry. Without reliable supply of electricity, society does not work. In a way, it may be said that the experiment has been successful. We have got black and white what happens when there is no access to regulated production. It's time we cut off the experiment now. Another cable is needed so that the Gotlanders can have proper access to water and nuclear power from the mainland. The Gotlanders have the right, like the mainlanders, to expect the lights to work in any weather and every second of the day. Madam President, I would like In Liberals' Sweden, there is no need for parliamentary debates on the electricity grids. The parliament and the government have a responsibility to ensure that things like electricity networks work. Let us learn from Gotland and finish the ideological experiments.
i-1BaGc2nHJyAFJxBHaq4bY	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating NU10 electricity market issues. The report deals with 63 requests for exercise from general exercise time, and the report has 9 reservations. First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision and reject all motions. Sweden has unique conditions to cope with the transition to renewable energy while ensuring security of supply and competitiveness. Last year's production was 163 terawatt hours of electricity. We spent 137 terawatt hours. Sweden net exported 26 terawatt hours of electricity in 2019, which is all-time record. It takes almost a cheer! The Social Democrats are a climate party, and we are very pleased with the development. But certainly there are challenges, just as has been said in the speaker's seat before. As society is electrified, electricity grids and markets at all levels need to be developed, expanded and used more efficiently. Several measures are under way and are planned to create favourable conditions for a well-functioning electricity market. It is about market design, about efforts to have sufficient impact, measures for a functioning demand response, network stability and more. It is also about historically large investments in the transmission network – 60 billion in total up to 2029. These are investments in new connections, market integration and reinvestment in existing infrastructure. To meet the local challenges, Svenska Kraftnät implements a series of measures to address the capacity shortage in the long term and also with short-term solutions before new lines are in place. At the same time, the Government has commissioned the county boards of Skåne, Stockholm, Uppsala and Västra Götaland to map and analyse the impact situation at regional and local level. The government also presented an initiative last autumn with the energy industry to carry out more investments in electricity grids with increased regional impact. The Swedish Energy Market Authority is also tasked with analysing capacity shortages in the electricity grids and proposing possible solutions. Another measure is effective licensing processes for electricity grids, which many have previously mentioned in the speaker's chair. The investigation Modern permit processes for electricity grids make several suggestions on this. The report is now being referred and is currently being prepared in the Government Office. Here, too, the Swedish Energy Market Authority is tasked with reporting how it works to shorten processing times. The licensing processes are a key issue for improving electricity grid capacity. A number of other issues are also currently being prepared to make it easier for smaller operators in the energy market. Energy at competitive prices is crucial for Swedish industry's competitiveness, and it requires stable rules of play that enable long-term investments in energy-intensive industry and power producers. Swedish grids are now reviewing the electricity areas because major changes in the power system have taken place since they were introduced. The price differentials in electricity areas are now expected to be evened out when the South-West link connection is put into operation – albeit with very regrettable delays. An important starting point that should not be forgotten in the design of the electricity market is that consumers can strengthen their position and reduce their energy costs. When it comes to objectives and responsibility for security of supply, which several have mentioned, it is the Swedish Energy Market Authority that reviews the transmission of electricity by network companies and Swedish power networks that ensures a short-term balance between production and consumption. The responsibility for the existence of sufficient production rests with balancing companies. This morning it looked like this in the control room of the Swedish power grid: The production was 23 500 megawatts. The total consumption was 19,400 megawatts. So we exported 4,100 megawatts. There was a balance in the system, and prices were the same in all four price areas. Nevertheless, in my view, this indicates that the electricity market is working. In this area, too, the Swedish Energy Market Authority is tasked with analysing the legal acts at EU level on electricity market design, which address, among other things, a target for security of supply. Swedish power networks also make assessments of the conditions for maintaining the balance of power in the long term. When it comes to planning the future electricity market, it is quite difficult to have a definite idea of what it will look like in 20 to 25 years' time. It is probably more about monitoring developments via, for example, Swedish grid long-term scenarios for the Northern European electricity system. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to mention Gotland's electricity supply. An important starting point must be that the whole of Sweden has a secure energy supply and continues to have good conditions for the expansion of renewable energy. As several have mentioned here before, the Swedish power network 2017 discontinued the planning of a new electricity connection to Gotland, as it was estimated that the costs of the cable significantly exceeded the utility values it would provide. The investment was estimated at 1.8 billion. After that, the Swedish Energy Agency has developed a roadmap with proposals on how Gotland can switch to a sustainable energy system. I would like to draw the attention of Members to the fact that the budget for 2020 reads the following: Solutions are being developed, among other things. within the framework of the Government's mission on Gotland as a pilot in the transition to a renewable energy system. These measures will contribute to increased security of supply, competitiveness and ecological sustainability. ..................................................... In the regulatory letter to the Swedish power network, you can read the following: ..................................................... There are therefore two clear statements from the government about the importance of security of energy supply in Gotland. Swedish power grid in collaboration with the Swedish Energy Agency has been tasked with analysing whether Gotland has a safe and secure electricity supply in the short and long term. It is both reasonable and serious to wait for that analysis and then come back. With this, Madam President, I call for all motions to be rejected and for the committee's draft decision to be approved.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-381	Madam President, I would like In 2018 and 2019 Gotland had 18 total interruptions. I do not think that much analysis is needed to conclude that the supply of electricity is not very secure in either the short or the long term. When Ibrahim Baylan was Minister of Energy, he opened the election campaign to a third Gotland cable. He also pointed out that it was important to stand up for it even when there was no election movement. Nothing has happened since then. Regardless of how you would like to do this, I wonder what the position and position of the Social Democrats are. Should a third Gotland cable be built or not?
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-384	Madam President, I would like I suspected Rickard Nordin would ask the question about Baylan's statement. He did that last year to my colleague Monica Haider. I think Rickard Nordin is a little careless about the truth about what the minister said. But I can say that if the House decides that we should prioritise on the basis of the Swedish power grid's system analysis of cables, regardless of where in the country, then we have a pretty big job to do. And the question is whether we politicians should be doing it when we have a business that has to do this. I have just presented the position of the Social Democrats and the government regarding the supply of electricity on Gotland. I may think I was clear enough about this, but clearly Gotland's power outage is unacceptable. That is exactly what the government says in two statements. This is why the Swedish Power Network and the Swedish Energy Agency have been commissioned to analyse this. When you analyse this, we will see if it is a new cable or something else that is needed. But it requires serious analysis. To decide on a cable with a price tag of about 1.8 billion in blanco does not seem to me serious.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-388	Madam President, I would like It can be a reasonable attitude to keep politics from interfering. But then the big question is why the government interfered in the situation in Stockholm and Malmö where they did not have any total interruptions but only talked about impact problems. Could it be, cynically enough, that it was because it became big in the media? It was the Pope who pushed. It was in Stockholm it happened and not somewhere far out in the countryside on Gotland. Then it was all of a sudden necessary for the Minister for Energy to step in and take action and make political decisions to deal with the capacity problems. Why isn't the same kind of argument present on Gotland? I respect what the budget says. After all, we have been involved in negotiating it ourselves. I'd just like to be a little more accommodating. The Center Party will continue to push this forward in the budget work – that you should not only say that it is important to do something but also say how to do and actually do it. To create an analysis does not get that far. I would like to hear from Patrik Engström what he thinks distinguishes the situation on Gotland from the situation in Malmö and Stockholm – where we together, before Swedish power grids have done their analysis, have even commissioned the county boards to do the same analysis in, among other things, Västra Götaland, Skåne and the Stockholm area that they are now going to do on Gotland. Why does Patrik Engström think it was okay to go in there and act on the political side when he doesn't think it's okay to do it on Gotland?
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-391	Madam President, I would like Basically, it is not at all a question of there being any differences in the country, but the question is in what order of turn we should take this. As Rickard Nordin well knows, there is a project under way by the Swedish Energy Agency to look at Gotland's energy supply. I guess that's one of the answers to that. Gotland, in my opinion, can make the same demands on society as Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. It is not that there have been no measures to deal with the problem on Gotland. Actually, it has, and Rickard Nordin knows it very well. When it comes to whether we politicians should manage the investment plans in the long-term investment plan of Svenska Kraftnät, which extends to 2029 with investments of 60 billion, I think it will be a little strange if we in this House are to take a decision on an investment of 1.8 billion without making a proper preparation of the matter. Part of that preparation is to do an analysis. I think this feels serious and credible, and I actually think that many people on Gotland also think so.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-395	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by asking how Patrik Engström views this issue of safeguarding welfare. The Social Democrats are, of course, a party that sees itself as a society-supporting party and claims to protect both industry and climate, which is the foundation of a welfare society. The OECD says that we will not be able to meet climate targets or deliver enough energy if we do not use nuclear power. That is why I do not understand why we do not want a proper impact study to see how we are going to do this. As far as energy exports and imports are concerned, we are boasting that we are exporting a lot of electricity, and we are doing so. The days when they blow and our water reservoirs are full, which they have been now so that they almost run over, we export. But that's not what it looks like all the time, it's going to be different times. I can promise you that if Patrik Engström doesn't think so. Then we will be importing fossil electricity instead of using something much more energy-smart, that is, nuclear energy. How does Patrik Engström view this question? Why is this not being looked at in a major investigation, as we have wished? Energy is a major part of the competitiveness of Swedish society. How does Patrik Engström expect companies to cope with competitiveness when they do not get the secure access to energy that we already see that they do not get in Skåne, in Stockholm and on Gotland?
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-399	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for the questions! There were quite a few questions. I'll try to sort them out. First of all, I am very pleased that we can export electricity from Sweden. It is very much based on long-term rules of the game that they have dared to invest in Sweden for quite a few years. Recently, it is mainly wind power that has been invested in. I am very pleased with this. But maybe Lotta Olsson is having a bit of a hard time doing it, because I perceive underlying that she is trying to make it sound like there is a crisis in Sweden. Sweden has a robust system. We have Europe's lowest electricity prices for businesses, and so we have an electricity surplus. We have challenges. These are handled, for example, in the Swedish power network's system development plan until 2029. There are many of the answers that Lotta Olsson is asking for in an impact study, I would say. I think it is a pity that the Moderates and Lotta Olsson cannot be pleased with the success of the energy market. It is a pity that it chose to leave the energy agreement, which would have given us a long-term perspective. Long-term confidence creates confidence in the future and enables us to make investments that in the long term produce good results for the country. But it is the case in political society today that it is difficult to stand up for common solutions.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-403	Madam President, I would like It is certainly not difficult to stand up for common solutions. But it must be seen that these are solutions and not just political compromises in order to achieve a majority. What is a long-term good solution for Gotland industry so that they can also have confidence in the future, avoid power cuts and switch to electricity, which we know is so important? There is no reason why Gotland should not receive what the rest of the country receives. We were previously in electric areas. Electricity areas would not be needed in the best of worlds. It's a lack situation that made them come from the beginning. It is in the north that we have the most access to energy. In Skåne you have to pay more for the energy so that you do not consume as much. The question is whether the Social Democrats want to see the development of Sweden as an industrial country. Like previous debaters, we are now getting other industries that are energy-intensive, such as computer halls and other things. AI will, and it will require a lot of energy. It is good that there are such establishments in Sweden, but it requires that you know for sure that the entire government stands up for an energy that is safe to supply. Therefore, it is very surprising that Patrik Engström does not want to go on that line, but he sees something that the OECD does not actually see. There is no consensus behind what the government sees here. How long will it take before we get into balance and avoid the alarming reports from Gotland, Skåne and Stockholm? Or should we have temporary solutions? I wonder how Patrik Engström views it.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-408	Madam President, I would like There were many questions this time too. I'll try to answer them. Today it was the same price in all four electricity areas, which may be worth noting. As Lotta Olsson says, it is certainly not always so, but today it was so. Swedish power grids are now reviewing the electricity areas. From what I understand, it was when you were last in power that these bidding zones were introduced. There were good reasons for this, and perhaps there is still a need to speed up the process of electricity grid expansion. This is being reviewed at the moment. As far as the OECD and nuclear power are concerned, I can only say that, as far as I know, nuclear power must be well built in Sweden. But no one's heard from him yet and wanted to do it. It should be a problem for Lotta Olsson and everyone who believes that nuclear power is the only solution to our climate problems, because that is not true in my view. It can be nuclear power in Sweden, and we have nuclear power in Sweden. There is no ban on building nuclear power in Sweden. Yet this is not done because the price of new nuclear power is too high. The price will, of course, be paid by consumers. If anyone in this House wants three times the price of electricity because they want new nuclear power, then that is the case. However, I believe that most consumers are interested in a low electricity price, especially the industry, so that they are competitive with other countries. Lotta Olsson and the Moderates should drop the nuclear energy discussion and think about how we ensure that we have reasonable and long-term rules and reasonable prices for electricity in the future.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-415	Madam President, I would like It is exciting to follow the transition to 100 percent renewable. It is a very positive change in a number of ways. First and foremost, of course, it is about democratisation, that more and more people can take power over their own electricity bill and their own electricity costs. It also means decentralisation, that we should not be equally dependent on a few large production areas, but we should be able to slip them out across the country. This also means increased security for the Swedish electricity system. This also means, of course, a reduction in dependence on uranium and fossil fuels and, of course, a reduction in the problem of final disposals and other issues surrounding nuclear power. The conversion thus comes with a number of gains, but it also comes with certain challenges, of course. All the conversions come with challenges. For example, there is no doubt that the system will be more weather-dependent in the future. More wind and sun in the system will mean that we will simply have to deal with weather conditions in the market. But it is only technology pessimists and accident ravens who do not believe that this would be possible to solve. There are a number of solutions to address the challenges that the transition will bring. I believe that it is mainly in three areas that we need to see action. The first is that we need a more flexible system and a more flexible market. If we become more flexible, we reduce the risk that the balance of effects will create problems for us. It reduces the risk of the local capacity shortage that has been and is a real challenge. In order to achieve a more flexible market, we need, among other things, to get local markets for system services and flexibility measures up and running. We generally need to review the tax system linked to electricity generation and networks. We need to develop a strategy for heat and cogeneration. How can it facilitate flexibility in the system in the future? I also believe that we will need to step up efforts on different types of energy stocks, whether it be batteries or hydrogen. The second area in which action will be needed is general energy efficiency measures. There is much that can be done, including in the existing housing stock and in industry. Some energy efficiency measures are simply not being taken there. This is either because it does not come to mind, even though it would be profitable, or because it is not profitable today, given that there are no instruments to steer towards energy efficiency. When we become more efficient with how we use electricity, we can cut peaks and facilitate the conversion. As I mentioned, there is not today a major instrument that drives towards energy efficiency. That is why we want to put in place a so-called obligation, i.e. compulsory energy efficiency measures that can be traded with. We also need to review, strengthen and develop the various state aids for energy saving and energy efficiency. The third area where more measures are needed to cope with the transformation is all that concerns the capacity of the network system. We know that more weather-dependent energy production will mean a need for transmission and stronger networks. It has been lifted up earlier here in the speaker's chair that we must continue to work on shortening the time to build nets. A great deal is already happening in this area. The authorities themselves take action. And we have quite recently received an investigation in the field that we will continue to work on. I also believe that we need to think even smarter about where we are placing future electricity generation. We know that the sea wind will be strong in the future. It will make it easier in southern Sweden. But one might imagine that we should facilitate even more for example both the Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in their planning of new wind production so that it is placed as strategically as possible. We also need to think about how we can reduce the need for local networks where they are not needed and how electricity can be transferred without a concession obligation and the like. In conclusion, we will be able to cope with this exciting and positive transition if we manage to move forward in precisely the three areas I have mentioned: flexibility, efficiency improvements and robust electricity grids. Then I think we're going to have the transition as in a small box. I therefore support the proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-427	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Lorentz Tovatt tells us that it is we who are going to put wind power and other things. It is the market that is doing so; this is also a debate on the electricity market. It also happens that the market would very much like to build more electricity supply, not least on Gotland. But there you have capacity problems. There's no way to get any more power. More stable access to the core network would lead to significant amounts of renewable energy. But it is also crucial to cope with the climate change change on Gotland. The heavy industry there needs that supply. It is not included in the socio-economic calculation. It does not count 7 SEK per tonne of carbon dioxide and so on. There are some shortcomings, and there is a problem. I am therefore curious about the position of the Green Party. Should a third power cable for Gotland be built? Yes or no?
i-45kzLroZ7ms9JhdM5ybc2h	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for the question! When it comes to installing wind power, I referred in my speech to the already ongoing planning work of the Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. I hope Rickard Nordin knows that it is planning to locate wind power that will reach 100 terawatt hours. J ag means that we should facilitate that work so that they can have good collaboration with, for example, county boards and municipalities. I hope Rickard Nordin isn't against that. As far as Gotland and the electric cable are concerned, I don't know what to say. I usually have the image of the Center Party and Rickard Nordin as a party and a politician who does not want to regulate authorities in detail. You might think it should be done, but then you have to be honest with it and have it as a consistent line. The electricity cable to Gotland is absolutely not something that the Green Party opposes. But we have a system in which politicians demand things from their authorities, but we do not go in and influence the details. We have negotiated a budget. As far as I am aware, the Center Party is also involved in the work on the regulatory letters. There are also wordings about Gotland's electricity supply. It sounds a little bit at Rickard Nordin like he's failing the potential and work of his own negotiators. He himself has been involved in negotiating these issues, both the budget and the regulation letter to the Swedish power network. The Center Party must therefore continue to push it in new ways if it has failed so far.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-433	Madam President, I would like I would not have had to raise those issues in this House if we had received feedback from the government parties on this issue. That is also why we are having this debate. Just as, unfortunately, the Green Party will not stop pushing the issue of increased petrol taxes, although they did not get it through the budget, I will not stop talking about Gotland's electricity supply until it is safe and stable. Unfortunately, it is not today. I'm a little curious about the Green Party's attitude. If you do not have to manage your authorities in detail in any way, why do we have infrastructure planning? Why don't we make a direct decision from the Finnish Transport Administration? We don't. The Green Party would like to focus on lifting more resources from road to rail. I don't have much against it. But that is exactly how Lorentz Tovatt says we should not do when it comes to Swedish power grids. When there are shortcomings in the socio-economic analysis and when climate issues or security policy issues are not taken into account, it is reasonable to make such an assessment as the Center Party has done. We think that the entire country's energy supply, not just Stockholm and Malmö, is important. There were political decisions on emergency packages. Why did they not trust the Swedish power network's assessment in those cases? Swedish power grids say they have things going on and that they will have cables ready 2024, 2028, 2030. Yet politics went in and made crisis packages and assessments of a situation that does not even exist yet but for which there is potential. Gotland has had a difficult situation for ten years. Uppsala has had it for a long time too. Why is it okay to control detail in Malmö and Stockholm but not on Gotland, Lorentz Tovatt? The situation is exactly the same there, but the solution is different.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-438	Madam President, I would like I'd like to thank Rickard Nordin for the line shift. The indexation of the petrol tax remains. That, of course, is the important thing. I'm happy with that. There are some misconceptions in this debate. The fact that politicians should not go into detail and regulate the specific work of a business does not mean that politicians should be left to their hands. It is clear that politicians should be able to take action in areas where they are really needed. That is not what this debate is about. It was obviously important that the government went forward with a series of measures to deal with the capacity shortage in Stockholm and Malmö. Moreover, it was not a question of such planning. It was a series of assignments to authorities, county boards and so on. The comparison with Trafikverket is also limping, as there are two completely different procedures. The Finnish Transport Agency has a national plan that spans 12 years, and they produce a long list of proposed measures. It is the government that ultimately says yes or no. It is a certain procedure that is used. We do not have that procedure when it comes to what investments Swedish power grids should make. If Rickard Nordin wants to change this, it is an interesting attitude that you can argue for, but then you have to be consistent. Then we need to look at the whole way in which we are dealing with investments in electricity grid infrastructure today, because that is not how it works now. If Rickard Nordin is willing to run this, he'll have to be honest with it.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-444	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by giving positive feedback to Lorentz Tovatt for his positive view of research. Research and development are the foundations of the whole welfare society. However, I would like him to listen more to what the OECD says about the energy needs of the future and how we are going to meet the climate targets. I do not have to say what their solution is, but they believe that nuclear power is very important. I wonder how Lorentz Tovatt views the problem inventory. He talked about how we need to be more flexible and that more local networks are needed. That's great, but that's not where the problems are. Today, there are the problems and challenges in how we can reshape our heavy industry, which is generating an enormous amount of energy. Up in Luleå they still burn with coal in the blast furnaces to be able to melt iron. It is this industry that needs to switch to electrification. It is not at all a question of local networks, and then it is not the flexibility of the networks that is the dilemma. And then there's our heavy transport. It is in these two areas that we are not the best in the class today. Sweden is also very good at fossil-free, smart energy. Then there is general energy efficiency. But it is not what you and I are doing at home that is the big accident child, Lorentz Tovatt, but those are the activities I mentioned. How does Lorentz Tovatt land in that it is these areas that are the dilemma? I personally see two very different areas.
i-47wKpdJBj12UZHq7GDxoZG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for the questions! Two weeks ago I made a very fun climate tour in northern Sweden where I visited the Hybrid project, which is about producing steel without coal. They say they want flexibility. Their entire business model is to have excess wind, for example, which they can then convert into hydrogen that they will run their processes with in the future. That's interesting. Flexibility will benefit the heavy industry, but above all it will ensure that, as smart consumers, we do not steal electricity unnecessarily when it is really needed in industry, for example. That's how you get to see the system: that it's connected. If consumers get smarter, we will be able to supply the industry with electricity at competitive prices. I am opposed to the view that it is precisely the production of electricity that is the major challenge in general in the future. We export huge amounts of electricity. In 2019 we exported electricity equivalent to four Ringhals reactors. It's huge amounts of electricity. It is obviously good that Sweden exports electricity. We have clean electricity, and it will be exported and compete coal in other countries. This is not the big challenge ahead, it is how we get the system together.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-450	Madam President, I would like How we get the system together is hugely important. Even if we streamline and take all the measures described by Lorentz Tovatt, we problematize that we will need much more energy in the future. If we change our heavy industry, all our heavy transport and our cars and if we, with the labour market of the future, are to attract large energy-heavy computer halls and things that are good from a security perspective and for jobs and Sweden, there is still no reduction in energy. Then the question is whether to stifle this development because we do not have enough intermittent energy, because it will take a huge amount. We must also expect that our water storage facilities will not be this drunk all these years. Perhaps it is better to contribute to the world's climate goals by exporting electricity than just thinking that you are yourself enough. In some ways, energy production is larger than just Sweden. It can be seen that Germany has increased its CO2 emissions. They have converted to wind power and import quite a lot of fossil gas. But France, which is largely using nuclear power, has actually reduced its emissions. This is something we need to learn from, because climate targets are not far ahead. If we are going to do something that will have a real effect, this is the time. Then we cannot think 20 - 30 years.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-453	Madam President, I would like I did not notice any clear questions, but I can reason a bit about what Lotta Olsson talked about. As an event, I also visited a computer hall in northern Sweden. I have the same picture – that it is good that computer halls open in Sweden, because we have good and a lot of electricity. That's a good thing. However, I would like to emphasise once again that the image of more electricity generation is not very accurate. I would like to emphasise that it is during the time that the government has been in power that the electricity surpluses have increased as and when. In addition, surpluses have increased as new wind enters the systems. Under the alliance government, when the Moderates were in power, we were net importers for a few years, and that is very bad. But during the time that the government has ruled, we have increased the surplus of electricity. It would be quite a debate of our own if we were to go through the German energy transition, but only so that it is clear: emissions within the German electricity system have been reduced by 30%. These are facts and are beyond question. I know that it is the right's favorite argument to say that the German energy transition has been disastrous, but it is simply not true that emissions have increased, as some claim. Emissions within the electricity system have decreased by 30 per cent in Germany. After all, I am not responsible for the German electricity system. I wouldn't have done what the German politicians did. Part of it I would have copied right off– I think it's brilliant politics– but of course I'm not behind it all. As I said, in the German electricity system emissions have been reduced by 30%.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-457	Madam President, I would like I will not be surprised to talk about Gotland's electricity supply. I think everyone in the room has figured this out. The basic attitude of the Center Party is that Gotland belongs to Sweden. It is therefore very reasonable that Gotland should be connected to the main network. Gotland is part of the electricity grid that is not connected to the main grid today. This is our basic attitude. I am pleased with the debate. A lot of bourgeois people understand that. Five parties will vote in favour of an announcement. However, one might be a little surprised at the debate, as it sounds like this is a new issue. It certainly is not. This discussion has existed since 2009, when Svenska Kraftnät made a specialization decision. Then it was planned for eight years, and then it was in all the investment plans, before they ended it all in May 2017. The question is therefore analysed and investigated. There's a lot of material behind it. There are some basic aspects that affect Gotland in particular. Electricity supply is central to the development of a modern society. It's extremely clear. In practice, all technologies are based on electricity supply. It's computers and milk robots. For example, Cementa has a number of thousands of electric motors to be restarted at each small blink. In 2018, the situation was that we had 13 total interruptions. In 2019 we had 5. That's completely unreasonable. Imagine this situation in Stockholm. Then it would have been a scream. But Gotlanders will accept this. It doesn't make sense. That is the first starting point. The second is that Cementa and Heidelberg Cement represent the base production of all cement in Sweden. It is produced 70 percent in Slite on Gotland. This is what builds up Swedish housing production, among other things. They urgently need to make a change for climate reasons. They represent the second largest emission point in Sweden and aim to be climate neutral by 2030, i.e. in ten years' time. It's a pretty short time. When they are going to do so, one of the main inputs is that they should have carbon capture and storage. When they do this process, electricity consumption goes up on Gotland, from today's consumption of about 1 terawatt hour to 3 terawatt hours. They triple their consumption. This means that even more cable supply and local production are needed for it to work in practice. Electricity cable is also needed very clearly to cope with the energy transition on Gotland. We have been very successful with the wind power expansion in particular and in recent times also with the PV expansion. We have 45 percent local renewable energy production in the power grid on Gotland today – mostly wind power. But the cables have actually been full for ten years. It's been a deadlock for ten years. Imagine it in Stockholm or Malmö! That discussion had not been possible at all. In practice, for ten years, we have had a deadlock. We know that Gotland has extremely good wind resources, we are located in southern Sweden and that is where we need the electricity. At the moment, a large bottom survey is also underway around a large offshore project in the area of wind power south of Gotland. It has enormous potential. All of this will be recorded in the future. I would also like to add that the time aspect is very important when it comes to such large investments. These are very long lead times. We know that it normally takes between eight and ten years to lay a sea cable. When we know that it is ten years before Cementa is to change, we understand that this decision must be taken quite quickly. Other basic facts are that the two small old cables that we have are laid in 1984 and 1987. So they sing on the last verse. Right now this is being investigated. However, according to estimates, they end in 2030 – 2035. This means that the new solution with the third cable cannot be based on the fact that today's two cables will remain in operation. Then we will soon have the same problem again. Because they're almost over. I will say a few words about the socio-economic analysis on which this is based. I have been running this issue since 2007, first as a municipal councillor, then as a regional wind power coordinator, then as a national wind power coordinator and now as a Member of Parliament. This means that I have read some socio-economic studies a number of times. For example, what Birger Lahti and Rickard Nordin have been talking about is that this analysis does not include a single cost-plus item in terms of climate improvement. If wind power is not built on Gotland, it will be built in northern Sweden. However, there is not a single plus point to correct the climate effect on Gotland by building cable. I therefore believe that this analysis falls on its own absurdity. Investigations become what they become depending on what you pick into them. And I think this is a very bad investigation. We in the Center Party are very convinced that Gotland needs a new electric cable. That is why, of course, this afternoon we will be voting in favour of the announcement that we have. The Minister for Energy today stated in the media that this does not matter. Maybe it won't. In that case, however, the responsibility for resolving the matter falls heavily on the government. Everyone understands that, regardless of today's vote, the substance of the matter must be resolved. This doesn't hold. I therefore call for reservation 9.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-470	Madam President, I would like We shall now debate mineral policy. Everyone in this House will agree that the minerals in our land are Swedish basic industry and form the basis for the Swedish economy and growth. The mining industry generates large revenues to the state and employs approximately 32,000 people in the country. Together with the steel and metalworking plants, the mining industry forms a large part of the Swedish export industry. If you back down well back in time, Sweden could also export some of the surplus of our iron production in the Viking era. This happened at the time with the help of the blast furnace, which was also a Swedish invention, so that we could quickly respond to the demand from other countries that then needed the iron among other things to manufacture weapons. To this day, we still export two thirds of all iron produced in Sweden. The concept of basic trust can really fit in with this. We can say that it is an ancient industry that has laid the foundation for Swedish welfare. At the same time, the subject of mineral policy brings complex issues, mainly in terms of sustainability and the environment, but also in terms of property rights. We're a leading mining nation. We shall be very proud of that. Our mines and mining companies are at the forefront of technological innovation, work environment and productivity. Our iron is world-class, and we have companies that supply equipment to mines all over the world. The Government's mineral strategy takes a concerted approach to creating favourable conditions, highlighting opportunities and identifying challenges so that the mining and minerals industry can grow in a sustainable manner in line with the opportunities that today's strong international demand for metals and minerals actually offers. The availability of metals such as iron, copper, silver and high-tech metals is a prerequisite for producing modern energy and environmental technologies such as wind power, solar cells, low-energy lamps and even catalytic converters in cars. In fact, green growth without access to raw materials for green technology is completely unthinkable. There is an international interest in how to strengthen access to metals. The issue has been raised by the rapid economic development of countries such as China and India, but also Brazil, where increased prosperity leads to an increased need for metals in order to build, not least, infrastructure. The EU has a shortage of most metals. There is a large deficit in the EU in nickel, iron, zinc, lead and copper. The EU is currently totally dependent on imports, including tin, cobalt and molybdenum. The demand for metals is estimated to remain high in the coming years, both within the EU and in the world. Sweden is one of the EU's leading ore and metal producing countries. Almost 90% of the EU's iron ore production comes from Sweden. Sweden also has the largest lead and zinc production in the Union. Swedish silver production is the second largest in the EU, while Swedish gold and copper production is in third and fourth place, not far behind the countries that produce the most. Mining is of great importance for the country's growth and economy. It creates jobs in the surrounding society, contributes to increased attractiveness and creates growth in parts of the country that have had a long-term decline in population development. The expansion of mining shows the strong link between town and country. In addition to the production of ore for the production of metals, Sweden's bedrock gives high quality natural stone with international reputation, and it is exported worldwide. From the bedrock, materials are collected for various construction purposes that are necessary for society. In industrial processes and products, minerals with specific physical or chemical properties are used. Madam President, I would like In order for the mining industry and industry to develop throughout our country, it is important that there is a surrounding society that works. This requires investment in research and skills provision, as well as substantial investment in infrastructure and our well-being. It is therefore welcome that the government has said yes to, among other things, Norrbotniabanan and that efforts are being made on railway maintenance. It is necessary for the industry to develop. The government's efforts to improve its skills are very necessary and welcome. Madam President, I would like I am aware that the permit processes are very long. In order for us to remain at the forefront and be competitive, it is important that we have an efficient and predictable permit process. It needs landowners, reindeer owners, residents and – above all – Swedish mining industry. With the right system and the right processes, I think it is perfectly possible to have an effective permit process while not compromising the consideration of important natural values, cultural values and other things that we want to preserve in the surrounding society. It is good that the permit processes are reviewed. Not only are they slow and drawn out, but they are also scattered across many of our authorities. The government is aware that environmental testing must also be made more effective. In the budget proposal for 2020, the government stated that it is working on simplifying the environmental test. As part of this, the Government has commissioned the County Administrative Boards and the Swedish National Courts Administration to collect statistics on processing times for environmental testing during the 2020 fiscal year. The statistics will then be reported to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which will compile, analyse and present the data that have been submitted on the environmental assessment. As far as the question is concerned, there are a lot of motions and, as it stands, also an announcement of an announcement from last year to speed up the processing times. Last year there were a lot of e-mails from all over our country, certainly to many of the Members of this House, where there was a great deal of concern – if we are to speed up the processes and the processing times, are we doing the environmental review seriously? Are we taking the others seriously? There is now a review in the Government Office, and as I mentioned, our county boards and courts are also working to collect such data and present it during the year. It is also intended to report to Parliament in March what it has done and intends to do so far. It is also intended to set up an investigation to review how the mineral law can be adjusted in order to create predictability in these processes. Stefan Löfven also said in the Government Declaration in autumn 2019 that the issue of review procedures and regulations needs to be reviewed. Yet the opposition in this House is saying that we should make an announcement about the announcement. I believe that the Swedish people expect this process, just as I have reported, to take place seriously and not to be pushed forward. It definitely doesn't feel serious. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all motions. However, I also support reservation 1. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that the minerals are crucial for Sweden. It's been a long time. They also form a bridge between rural and urban areas, between innovation and history. The mines are the backbone and engine of Swedish industry. We Social Democrats want to continue using the minerals in a wise and responsible way, taking into account and sustainability for all. We want to continue to strengthen infrastructure in the surrounding society. We want to see a strong and innovative society that stays together. This also applies to the issue we are debating today, namely mineral policy.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-487	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to call for the approval of reservation 5 by the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. Sweden has more than a thousand years of history of ore mining and metal production. Up to 3 000 mines have existed in the country, making Sweden one of Europe's most important mining countries. The mining industry is also Sweden's oldest industrial activity; among other things, the Garpenberg mine in Bergslagen was created in the 1200s. Yes, Sweden is indeed a mining and mineral country, and it has largely formed the basis for the prosperity we see today. The technological advances of modern society depend entirely on the availability of metals and minerals. As we are now debating mineral policy, I think it is important to emphasise that this is an issue that concerns all of us. Whatever the opinion, the fact remains that we have all, in one way or another, come to this House today. Some people may have gone by car, some other trains. Some may have flew up yesterday, while others took the subway. All these means of transport – and so much more – demand in one way or another that the mining industry is strong. There are a thousand other examples of uses that I could mention, but out of respect for the other debaters I will probably choose to abstain. The point is the same: Every day we are all affected by what our mining companies manage to produce within Sweden's borders, and I think that is important to lift up and be proud of. It is quite clear that we need to switch to a more circular and fossil-free society, but if we are to electrify everything we need electricity, batteries and infrastructure. It is therefore important to have a holistic approach when discussing important future issues such as this. A prerequisite for this transition is that we have access to metals. The transformation of society must be characterised by cost-effectiveness and result-orientation, not by expensive and short-term symbolic policies. It is no news that the mining industry generates a significant amount of waste. For the Moderates, however, it is high on the agenda to create the conditions for a resource-efficient society. We see that it is the policy's task to create good conditions for different actors to take responsibility for their waste and to safeguard the polluter pays principle. That is why we would like to review the possibility of including waste costs in the testing of the breakworthiness of a deposit. Now I would like to get a little involved in licensing processes because the long waiting times often put a brake on new investments, jobs and innovative investments. The industry accounts for large export revenues and employs many people, but the times for obtaining a permit are far too long. The mining industry has now begun to tire out and wonder why the government has not done anything. One example is the Kallak iron ore project, which has been waiting for more than six years to obtain a permit. G incubation area Laver is another example. It is not reasonable that this should be so complicated and take as much time in a prominent mining nation as Sweden. Another important aspect that I would like to highlight is that metals and minerals are where they are. So it is not possible to move a mining operation to a more suitable place if it happens to be an inopportune time to break just where it is. According to the Constitution, every citizen's property is secured except when it is necessary to satisfy urgent public interests. The exploitation and breaking of minerals and the creation of secure supply in the mineral industry have been considered to be such a public interest. A reasonable starting point should then be that the landowner obtains a reasonable return. Today, landowners receive a mineral replacement of 1 1⁄2 per mil of the estimated mineral value. Landowners, however, receive no compensation whatsoever for loss of income from, for example, agriculture, tourism or forestry. We believe that it is therefore important to review whether and how ownership rights in the mining industry should be strengthened. I would like to conclude by saying that there are very many good examples in the mining industry that should be borne in mind. The mining industry has done a lot for Swedish prosperity, and now there is much more to be desired by policy action.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-497	Madam President, I would like This past week I made a company visit to Skåne Höganäs. There I visited Höganäs AB, which is one of only five companies in the world that manufacture metal powders that you can press and sinter and thereby manufacture advanced metal objects from. We even saw examples of how to use it to 3D print complex metal parts. We were told that Höganäs AB is the market leader with about one third of the global market, which is therefore only five players on. We also learned that they are the oldest in the game and that they invest a lot in research and development. Of their metal powder you can make lots of complex components. In this context, the automotive component industry is highlighted as an important customer. An exciting market is also the electric engine manufacturers, which can produce more efficient electric motors for the automotive industry by applying magnetic metal powder in the right place in the electric motors. They told us that it all started in small Skåne Höganäs, where the head office is still located, and that it is now a global company with operations spread out in large parts of the world. As is customary for company visits, we were shown around the facility. We also had to look at a new pilot plant which, if it turns out to be large-scale, will be pioneering for their environmental work. We also saw their three ovens, which are 256 meters long and which are the very heart of their production. They told us that the newest oven, dating from 1971, is planned to have a lifetime of 2040 and that the other two ovens, even older, will eventually be replaced by new ovens, including those with a life span of 70 - 80 years. Investing in new ovens is not a trifle matter, and everything must therefore be right for them to be able to count home the investment during the technical lifetime. During the visit, we also learned that Höganäs AB is buying its magnetite – that is, the raw material, for those of you who do not know what magnetite is – from LKAB's mine in my own municipality. We even got to see the big piles in the raw materials warehouse. Madam President, I would like What does this view have to do with a South Swedish mining and mineral policy? Here I was going to continue my consideration. When I came to a spring winter Gällivare I simply couldn't help but pass my former workplace, the Vitåfors mine in Malmberget. There I looked out over the industrial area and was impressed by the fact that what is broken there becomes market leading products down in Skånes Höganäs at the other end of the country – first as metal powder, then as vehicle components and then to trucks and cars that go for export all over the world. I then continued down to central Gällivare. There I looked at the new high school that will be inaugurated this autumn and at our hospital, which is one of Norrbotten's two large regional hospitals. I couldn't help but reflect on the fact that this is all connected. For a long time, the Vitåfors mine has delivered iron ore to Swedish industry and generated jobs and wealth, as there have been customers at the other end who need what you can do with the ore. Companies like Höganäs AB simply exist because we have and have had access to the raw material. In addition, our educational system has provided us with world-class engineers, and energy policy in the past ensured industry's need for cheap, clean and secure electricity. None of this comes from any natural law or by chance. The link between access to raw materials, access to skills and access to energy has been the mix that has created the fantastic value chains that have enabled us to build schools, infrastructure, health care and other things that benefit the entire population. The example of Höganäs and LKAB is a telling example that is easy for me to relate to, as a moving show that has worked twelve years underground in LKAB's mine in Malmberget. But the connections and value chains are basically the same whether we are talking about our domestic mining of copper, zinc and silver or new innovation-critical metals and minerals. Madam President, I would like It should be made clear that if one of these components falls, the others will also fail. Without raw materials, no industry. Without high-quality education, no research that makes us competitive. Without stable and secure electricity, no electricity-intensive basic industry. Without industry, there will be no exports, no jobs, no tax revenue and no welfare. Or if you want to tip it a little bit: Without mines there will be no heavy export industry and no welfare. I am therefore very concerned that in this House there are those who do not seem to see the connections and who do not understand the importance, value and importance of a domestic and environmentally smart mining industry, but are turning around with statements that there may be a complete curl with the Swedish mining industry. I am concerned when decision-makers in this House seem to have the objective of their political action to combat a domestic industry which, in an international context, is absolutely world-class in terms of technological development and environmental work, which not only benefits us as a nation but also helps to create a better world. I am proud to represent a party whose mining and mineral policy is balanced and forward-looking in areas by area. In the Swedish Democrats' Committee motion, we propose, for example, that the Swedish mineral strategy be updated and that SGU and the Bergsstatet be strengthened financially and given a clearer information assignment. We also point to the importance of making continuous provisions to finance clean-up and restoration work. We also want to lift the ban on uranium mining, as uranium is a marker for other, more difficult-explored innovation-critical minerals that industry needs to succeed in the transition to a higher degree of electrification. Not least, we Swedish democrats stress the importance of eliminating the problems that currently characterise the state-of-the-art processes. The licensing processes are currently perceived as unclear, slow and unpredictable, which has led Sweden's reputation as a mining nation to make future investments in has fallen drastically in recent years. In our committee motion we not only stress the importance of bringing about a solution, but also present a concrete proposal – a so-called one-stop-shop solution. Finally, Madam President, I naturally agree with all our reservations in the report, but in order not to extend this afternoon's vote more than necessary, I am content to ask for the approval of reservation 10.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-520	Madam President, I would like Swedish mining industry is of great importance for our development. We have traditions, knowledge and unique assets to be cared for and developed in an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable way. The mining and mineral industry employs 13 000 people in Sweden and generates many jobs. Together with the steel industry, one tenth of our gross exports are accounted for. Mineral policy is linked to the vision of the whole country living. In Norrbotten, more than half of the investments are directly or indirectly linked to the mining industry, and for Västerbotten we are talking about 80 percent. The goal must be to protect and develop Sweden's position as a mining nation. During the year, however, we have seen how the industry has alerted us about the current situation, and last autumn we were able to read in the media about crisis meetings between the minister and parts of the industry. The Fraser Institute in Canada annually examines the attractiveness of different countries and regions for mining investments. In the 2019 ranking, Sweden loses investments when it comes to policy factors. For example, uncertainty is raised linked to rules. Madam President, I would like This underlines the need to improve licensing processes. The Swedish Parliament announced to the government last year that permit processes must be simplified and shortened. However, it is still the case that the processes are lengthy and that there is a high degree of unpredictability. Coordination between authorities leaves the rest to be desired. Now we might have heard something else from Mattias and the Social Democrats here in the pulpit. However, nothing has been mentioned in the course of the proceedings. Let's see what's coming. Of course, the licensing process should respect the complexity of the cases. An overall assessment is essential, but current time is problematic. Here we believe that the government has not done enough on the basis of Parliament's decisions. That is why we have proposed in this preparation process a new announcement to the government to investigate and come back with concrete measures to shorten and improve the processes. We're looking forward to it. In order to underline the importance of this, we also believe that the Government will report on the measures taken in connection with previous announcements by 2021 at the latest in connection with the budget. Madam President, I would like The use of fossil fuels burdens the climate and creates problems for health and the local environment. It is therefore of concern that many EU countries have not managed to switch from a significant dependence on coal but have quickly locked themselves even harder into fossil fuel-based societal structures by phasing out nuclear power, expanding shale gas extraction and forsaking the necessary investments in clean energy production. Sweden has an important role to play in pushing others forward and should work towards a ban on oil extraction in the Baltic Sea within the EU and Helcom. The fact that Sweden has introduced such a ban on Swedish waters is welcome and should be able to serve as a good example of how such a unique and sensitive brackish water sea as the Baltic Sea can be protected. The environmental risks associated with shale gas extraction are high, and the chemicals used are highly toxic even in small quantities. At present, there is no shale gas extraction in Sweden, and given the risks of the method, it is important that this does not happen. The Christian Democrats believe that shale gas extraction should be prohibited in Sweden and put this in a reservation in the report. That is why I am in favour of reservation 8. Madam President, I would like Ownership is absolutely central to Christian-democratic ideology, a right which every civilised society should protect. It is the basis for economic development and enables management across generations. Landowners should retain as far as possible power over their property, and protection should be strong. In reservation 5, which we support, we remind the government of Parliament's decision last year. It is a question of setting up a parliamentary committee to review and strengthen constitutional property protection – a decision that has not yet been complied with. In addition, the reservation suggests that the Government should be invited to develop an investigation with the aim of strengthening ownership rights in the mining industry and giving the landowners a reasonable return. With that, Madam President, I thank you for the floor.
i-EUwkAN57L677zajSmmm4Wn	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal and reject the motions.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-536	Aitik was Sweden's largest dam quarry in 2000. It was fortunate conditions that did not cause devastating consequences at that time. The other four places I mentioned are places d are mines have gone bankrupt and where it turned out that the financial guarantees provided were not at all sufficient. Instead, the state and taxpayers had to go in and pay the bill. Why am I bringing this up? Why am I saying this? In order to point out that a high level of environmental protection is extremely important and that the state ensures that financial guarantees are provided for the mines. This is a prerequisite for a long-term sustainable mining industry. With the Green Party in government, we have tickled off this step by step. There is now a ban on breaking uranium, which is very important. We can see two different perspectives ahead of us – one that is climate-smart and renewable, one pure future, and another with nuclear energy, where you are dependent not only on uranium mining but also on a repository that is not yet solved. We have also worked to develop a ban on drilling for coal and oil. This has not yet passed the Riksdag, but even before it has companies have withdrawn their applications to do such drilling. Speaking of curling the mineral industry, we have also removed the tax rebate on diesel, in order for the mineral industry to change and become climate-smart. It has come a very long way and now works with work vehicles that are electrified. Now we are working hard to tighten the regulations for alumskiffer. This is important, because it is linked to major environmental risks due to things that can be leached into the water and that are not good for human health. We also work with financial security. There is an investigation, the state's gruesome risks, which has been referred to and which is now being processed at the department. Madam President, I would like In Sweden there are living lakes and watercourses and a lot of drinking water. That is something we really need to protect in the future. Drinking water supplies need to be protected in different ways. We do not want to get into a situation, as in other European countries, where we can drink water from a bottle. It is also important that we safeguard the rights of our indigenous peoples. The Sami need a voice when it comes to the mineral industry. We are also a country that has valuable natural areas, from Laponia in the north to Österlen in the south, not only in a Swedish perspective but also in a European perspective. It is also something that we really need to protect. At the same time, there are difficult balances. We need minerals to build our society. We need minerals not least for climate change and electrification. Effective licensing processes are very important here, while maintaining a high level of environmental protection. This is a work that is under way and that you have probably seen the Minister for Economic Affairs be out in the media. As far as minerals are concerned, it is important to bear in mind that it is the minerals and jobs we want to access. We need to look to the future here. We have a glorious thousand-year history with mines, which is very good, but we also need to look ahead: how do we want to work with the minerals in the future? Here I would like to say that it is important to look at product design: How can we design products differently? I recently saw that Tesla will now make batteries without using cobalt. This is a work that is going on in the EU and where Sweden is a driving force. We also have urban mining and waste mining, where you look at slag heaps and products and then recycle different forms of minerals. Here we are very far ahead in terms of iron ore and copper. There's something called the copper pendulum. In the case of rare earths, however, recycling is between 1 and 5 per cent, which is very little. Here there is a great potential to step forward. For example, LKAB is working on this. Then it is very important, if you look at the global system of traceability and zero tolerance to child labour, that the production with the minerals we break is really ethically sustainable. It is a battery legislation under way in the EU, and there are several other international collaborations on traceability. Here Sweden is also a driving voice. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, the Green Party, the government and the progressive January parties have gradually pushed for a climate-smart future with product design and urban mining and waste mining that stays within the planet's borders and where we also give nature, water and the Sami a voice on mineral issues.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-553	Madam President, I would like Aitik is in Gällivare, not far away from robbery where I live. It's pretty close to a fresh water supply. The dust breach almost 20 years ago is something nobody talks about in Gällivare, strangely enough. There is really no one here who is opposed to strict environmental rules. I think all parties agree on that. But the question is whether strict environmental rules must impose and have as a consequence that we have such long and lengthy permit processes. Rather, the long and prolonged licensing processes have the effect of withdrawing investors, reducing market capitalisation and reducing the solidity of prospective companies. I cannot see that it is in any way beneficial for the disposal that needs to be done to take care of residual waste and to carry out post-clearance work, but it must be in everyone's interest to have fast, efficient and environmentally sensible permit processes. I wonder how the honourable Member views the problem of the lengthy processes and the negative impact they have on the industry.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-556	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Eric Palmqvist! I am very pleased to hear that the honourable Member agrees with the need for a high level of environmental protection. I would say that the lengthy processes are of no benefit to anyone. They do not benefit the mining industry, they do not benefit the Swedish population and they do not benefit the environmental interests. Permit processes need to be effective and legally secure, and they need to ensure a high level of environmental protection. The climate plan includes provisions to review environmental tests in order to make them effective. Then the Minister for Economic Affairs has also signalled that we should review the legislation. It's important. Then there are some issues that are beyond our discretion. The Supreme Administrative Court gave a ruling on the need for further evidence on Natura 2000 sites, and that is in order for us to be able to enforce legislation coming from the EU. It must therefore also be taken into account when it comes to what causes permit processes to drag on. We need to review this, and the processes need to be predictable and more efficient. I was a local politician earlier in my life, and there we looked at building permits cases and managed to shorten the lead times in the process while at the same time having a good quality.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-561	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for your answer. This brings me to my second question, which concerns the ban on uranium mining. How does the honourable Member feel about the fact that the ban on uranium mining makes the exploration of the minerals needed for the transition that not least the Green Party is asking for more difficult? Many of these minerals are such as uranium as an indicator. How do you see the ban on uranium mining actually making the transition more difficult?
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-564	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. Uranium mining is associated with very large environmental risks, so we think it is very inappropriate. These minerals are also often found in densely populated areas and near water, which can affect the water. We believe that a lot of attention should be paid to product design and urban mining and waste mining. As I said before, they have a recycling rate of only a few percent. There is a huge potential in this. We think that you should steer the cow straight towards the future rather than back into it and work as you have worked before. We think we should look at this with secondary sources and work on it. Research and product development projects are needed. Then there is still this thing with alumscipals linked to innovation-critical minerals. So that's our line.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-569	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report. Today we are debating mineral policy, which has been a political area for many centuries. My colleagues Mattias Jonsson and Helena Antoni have described the history, and as I said, Sweden's mineral policy, ore mining and metal production has a thousand-year history. It has, as Helena Antoni said, been up to 3,000 mines in the country. Most of them have been located in Bergslagen. I hope you know where Bergslagen is. There are parts of Värmland, parts of Västmanland, parts of Dalarna and parts of Örebro County – that is, relatively close to Stockholm. Sweden's mining history dates back to the 13th century, or really to the 1000s. Much of our wealth is based on income from, for example, Falu mine. I come from Dalarna where Falu mine is located. Since the Middle Ages, Falu mine and iron ores in Bergslagen have given a large income to Sweden. Over the past hundred years, the ore fields in Västerbotten and Norrbotten have also meant a lot to Sweden's economy. Since I come from Dalarna, I want to talk a little more about Falu mine. The break started before the 11th century. It should be remembered that the company that carried out the processing of Falu mine is also the world's oldest limited company. The mining in Falu copper mine has had an enormous impact on Sweden. During the great power period in the 17th century, the copper mine in Falun accounted for two thirds of all copper production in the world. The mine was closed in 1992 after over a thousand years of operation. I remember when it was shut down. Today it is a fantastic destination. Take the opportunity to visit Falu copper mine if you visit Dalarna! All of us who have been students in Dalarna have had to do so – even if we did not want to do so, we had to go down in the mine. Today we have only 12 mines left in operation. They're all metal mines. Two mines are located in Örebro County, one is located in Dalarna, four is located in Västerbotten and five is located in Norrbotten. It should be remembered that although it grants over a thousand research permits from 2013 to today, no n y mine has been opened. With that, I would like to say that a state of inquiry very rarely leads to mining. The twelve mines that remain today have an enormous historical breadth. The Garpenberg mine in Hedemora I have been down in myself, and I know it dates back to the 1000s, although it says when you search online that it is from the 1200s. The Zinc Mine in Askersund dates from the 18th century, and Malmberget in Gällivare and K iirunavaara in Kiruna dates from the 19th century. Madam President, I would like In this report, there is an announcement addressed to the government that, at the latest in connection with the submission of the budget proposal in 2021, the measures taken since the last announcement, which we heard here, were due in 2019. It was about the Government taking urgent measures to simplify and shorten the licensing process for the mining and minerals industry. The fact that the committee agrees with this announcement can of course be seen as pushing the environmental permit test, but that is not the case. Long processing times and inefficiencies in licensing are neither good for those companies that want to invest nor for those who do not want to see the establishment of a mine. I, and certainly many Members with me, have told me that many years of waiting creates mental ill health for those who do not want to see mining. Shorter and more efficient processing times would therefore be good for all parties. Madam President, I would like The report contains two motions by my colleagues, Anders Åkesson, Sofia Nilsson and Kristina Yngwe. They want to see a total ban on the extraction of gas and oil from shale as such extraction both makes it difficult to transform into a fossil-independent society and at present poses significant environmental risks. The Christian Democrats also have a similar motion. In Sweden there are alumn shale in parts of Skåne, Västergötland, Östergötland, Närke, Öland, the mountain chain and the southern Baltic Sea. It may seem a little strange that we do not support these movements. However, it is related to the fact that the 2019 January agreement regulates that exploration and exploitation of coal, oil and fossil gas shall be prohibited in the same way as has been done with uranium. It also says that the regulations for when minerals may be extracted from alums are to be tightened. Negotiations have taken place, which I myself have participated in, and the issue will be investigated and new legislation will be in place in 2022. That is why we do not support these motions. Finally, I would like to remind you that Sweden has one of the world's toughest environmental legislations, and that is a good thing. However, it is a fact that we will need to extract new metals in Sweden in order to meet the needs arising from the climate change. But we're not just going to extract new metals. We will also recycle metals, which we are good at in Sweden. Swedish mining industry, steel industry and forest industry are at the forefront of technical and environmental work. Sweden should therefore protect the world-leading industry we have in the country so that it does not end with our companies closing down, jobs disappear and we import materials and products that are much worse from the environmental and climate point of view than Swedish products.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-583	Madam President, I would like I was pleased that the honourable Member referred to the recycling of minerals. In the January agreement we have many good writings about the circular economy and circular cycles. Nevertheless, I would ask the honourable Member to develop a little more how we can work together in this area. Water is important related to mining. Mines always affect groundwater to a large or small extent. Unfortunately, at the last EU Environment Council, the Center Party was pushing to open up the Water Framework Directive, which will have unfortunate consequences. At the same time, in its election manifesto, the Center Party has written about living lakes and watercourses and to secure drinking water. I would therefore like to hear how we can work more specifically for water rather than against it.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-585	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Palmstierna for the question. I believe that all parties are involved in the circular economy. In Almedalen, we have met industry that works a lot with circular economy, not primarily for the sake of climate and the environment – it is a positive side effect – but because there is actually money in working with circular economy. Last year or last year, a company talked about wood asphalt, and it sounded incredibly exciting. So the binder is extracted from wood instead of oil. In this way, we will have a circular economy there as well. There is no major conflict in Sweden when it comes to reusing materials and working with circular economy. A lot of work is being done in the construction sector as well. You can take down a house and reuse most of the material. So to the conflict between the mineral industry and water issues. As the honourable Member says, we work for a fresh water in Sweden. However, there must be a balance between how much damage this causes and how much benefit we have from products that are removed from the ground. Here we may have a slightly different view of what is good and what is a reasonable balance. The Center Party wants to extract metals from the ground that help in the climate transition, and therefore I do not see the same conflict as the Environmental Party.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-591	Madam President, I would like As far as the circular economy is concerned, it would be interesting to follow this up in the Committee on Economic Affairs' follow-up group with some kind of research compilation or so. When it comes to water, it is mainly about the impact it can have on the Baltic Sea if the WFD is opened up and lobbyists are allowed in. We see this as very problematic. In terms of removing minerals from the soil, it is reasonable to always work primarily with product design, circular economy, recycling and secondary sources and only ultimately, unless there is another way and with a strong environmental protection, work in another way.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-594	Madam President, I would like I visited the steel mill in Avesta and then really saw the circular economy in practice. Most of the content of the new steel comes from recycled materials. Swedish steel industry works in a fantastic way to reduce its carbon dioxide emissions. Swedish steel has only 20 percent as much carbon dioxide as Filipino and other Asian steels. But there is a great risk that by making too great demands we will knock out our Swedish industry and ultimately only import ugly steel from other countries. We must therefore always have a balance. It is about how much rules we can have in relation to others so that we can be competitive and make good Swedish products. As far as the water directive is concerned, we must of course have fresh water. We can impose environmental requirements on our mining industry and our heavy industry at all, as we do. Sometimes we should praise our industry for doing so much good in the environmental field rather than painting it like a big villain. When I meet heavy industry, you say that you want to improve and work forward. I therefore have great confidence in how Swedish industry works with the environmental issue.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-599	Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of Europe's most important mining countries. Together with the steel and metalworking plants, the mining industry forms a large part of the Swedish export industry. Mining is also Sweden's oldest industrial activity. Among other things, Persberg in my home county had mining activities from the Middle Ages until the end of the 70s. This shows the importance of the mining industry for Sweden as a nation, but above all how important it has been for different regions in our elongated country. I have visited several companies in the mining industry myself. Interesting and admirable is that the industry itself takes big steps to become more climate smart and work for a more sustainable Sweden. The Swedish mining industry is well ahead internationally with its relatively climate-smart production. Emissions to air and water have gradually fallen, and production is today one of the most climate efficient in the world. I look forward with great confidence to when Sweden, probably first in the world, can boast with fossil-free steel production through the project Hybrid. Mining is an important part of Swedish industry and a strong export success. Sweden's mining industry is of great importance for the mineral supply in Europe. The industry employs more than 32 000 people and produces 8.2 million tonnes of industrial minerals. In Norrland, the mining industry also creates confidence in the future, more jobs and local growth in towns that have had a hard time before. A job in the mining industry is not just a job in the mining industry. It is one of the industries that generates the most additional jobs in relation to basic activities. Mining is also a key factor in electrifying society. For example, if we are to electrify and reach climate targets, copper is needed. Copper is mined in seven Swedish mines. Around 12% of the copper produced in the EU comes from Sweden. Imagine how amazing if Swedish copper could be part of electrifying society and achieving climate goals! Madam President, I would like The mining industry is, as I said, important for confidence in the future, more jobs, local growth and Swedish exports. We shall pursue a policy that enables growth, while it is important to take into account other interests, such as the environment and nature.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-606	Madam President, I would like The committee proposes an announcement to the government to simplify and shorten permit procedures. The Left Party has not supported the announcement. The reason is that a preparation is already ongoing. However, I would like to make it clear that the Left Party absolutely wants to see how the work is carried out in relation to permit processes. An early warning should be given when applications for processing concessions are submitted if there is a high risk of uncertainty. It will then be up to applicants to assess whether they are moving forward in a project that is at risk of delay and where the outcome is very uncertain. It is not we who should take responsibility for the companies' willingness to take risks. The mining industry is important for Sweden and can be expected to play an even more important role when the energy system is now being changed in a sustainable direction. Many minerals needed in modern battery technology or other technology applications are available in Sweden. They may form the basis for new mining establishments, often in parts of the country where the supply of jobs may otherwise be limited. My view and the Left Party's view of natural resources and who should extract and refine them is that they should be happy to have Swedish owners – why not government? Then it is not to the detriment of local ownership. Local anchoring gives more consideration to the local area and more long-termness, and it creates a sustainability mindset. Sweden has a low tax on mineralisation. This means that many mineral prospectuses come here, and more will probably be because the needs are increasing. Mineral extraction is often against other interests, which places great demands on the mining industry to take care of common environmental spaces, to be at the forefront of using environmentally friendly technologies and to take responsibility for local and regional society. My view is that Sweden should consider a different design of the fees and compensations associated with mining of minerals. Today, the fees are very low in an international comparison. I believe, for example, that a larger proportion of the profits of mining companies should go back to the local community. The Left Party has a motion on the protection of marine areas. Mining on the seabed could risk more damage to the marine environment than oil drilling, and hunting for deep-sea minerals can affect environments that have been undisturbed for billions of years. The Left Party is of the opinion that the precautionary principle should therefore be applied in order to prevent deep-sea mines from causing toxic contamination in food chains and destroyed ecosystems. In negotiations on the Convention on the Law of the Sea, Sweden should press for the introduction of a moratorium on deep-sea mining. That is why I am in favour of our Amendment No 11, which deals, among other things, with mining in maritime areas. In addition to the mining of minerals in deep-sea areas, I will be working to ensure that mineral policy is geared towards the development of the mining and minerals industry in line with the natural environment in such a way that indigenous peoples' rights are respected and that the returns of these common natural resources are reinvested in society to a greater extent than they are today.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-614	Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with the Social Security Committee's report on Parliament's proposal to increase the reduction in employers' contributions. I commend our reservation 2. Of course, I support our other reservations. If anyone wonders why in my speech I will address our proposals on strengthening pensions and better conditions for Swedish outdoor life, it is because the report also deals with sports from general exercise time relating to social security contributions. We in the Swedish Democrats share the view that good conditions for research and development are of great importance for Sweden and for creating growth in a globalised economy. For us, it is positive that companies are given good opportunities to conduct research and development, where the international aspect, in terms of competitive conditions, is a significant factor. This is also why an improvement in the opportunities for companies to carry out research and development is welcome. Madam President, I would like Among the consultative bodies, a majority supports the proposal or has nothing to recall. The proposal would improve the opportunities for Swedish companies to attract foreign experts and researchers, as the Karolinska Institutet's consultation body also highlights in its referral. Furthermore, the Karolinska Institutet says that this proposal would lead to increased opportunities to retain qualified research personnel in Sweden, which is a positive thing. Madam President, I would like However, although the proposal is very positive, we believe that the Government's proposal overlooks certain important elements. For example, it would have been desirable for the 2014 budget proposal to have actually been made before this proposal was presented. This is something that most consultation bodies have also pointed out and also asked for. Furthermore, the Enterprise Tax Delegation argues that an evaluation of changes such as these should take place within two years of their entry into force. Madam President, I would like We share this view and also believe that it should be ensured that an impact assessment takes place in any case within two years of the entry into force of the current enlargement. We also believe that it should be investigated whether there has been fraud. This is an important step when Arbetsförmedlingen, the Swedish Financial Control Agency and the Swedish Tax Agency believe that the proposal risks increasing incentives for companies to use the reduction even for employees who do not work with research and development. The existence of such abuse should therefore be further examined in the proposed evaluation. Madam President, I would like I would also like to take this opportunity to discuss briefly something about the old-age pension system. The old-age pension scheme is not financially sustainable in the sense that citizens do not receive a sufficiently high pension, measured as a proportion of the final salary. For example, an average 80-talist, born in 1985, who enters the labour market at the age of 25 and works until 67 years with a final salary of SEK 30 000 per month, at the present monetary value, receives an income pension of a date of SEK 13 600. This represents just over 45 per cent of the final salary, which is far from the target of 80 per cent. We therefore believe that it should be examined whether it is possible to increase the pension provision within the employer's contribution, while at the same time reducing the general wage contribution accordingly. By switching between lower general wage contributions and higher pension provision within employers' contributions, individuals will receive the same pension as at present or higher, and there is no need to increase the general retirement age.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-624	Madam President, I would like Sweden has an extensive and rich outdoor life. Svenskt Friluftsliv is an umbrella organisation for 25 non-profit outdoor organisations in Sweden that together have 1.7 million members, of which 300 000 are children and young people. Together, the organisations consist of nearly 9 000 local and regional associations. Many use Swedish nature through sports, tourism and recreation. Outdoor life reaches many social groups and is also an important resource for regional development and thus an important part of the palette of industries that interact and create the conditions for a vibrant economy in the living countryside. Although Swedish sport is larger and has more resources than Swedish outdoor life, both activities are equally important for public health. Despite this, Swedish outdoor activities are currently disadvantaged in comparison with Swedish sports as regards the half basic amount rule of the Social Insurance Act, which for example the Swedish Sports Federation is covered by. The remuneration of sportsmen and women from non-profit associations for the purpose of promoting sporting activities is in accordance with Chapter 2. Section 19 of the Social Security Contributions Act, free of charge, if the compensation during the year has not been half a price base amount. Madam President, I would like In other words, those who are not covered by the Swedish Friluftsliv. The Swedish Tax Agency believes that the legal text states that sportsmen should be involved in the application of the rule. Sports affiliated to the Swedish Sports Federation are the ones that may primarily be involved, but also similar activities such as outdoor sports. According to Svenskt Friluftsliv and several member organisations, the big problem is that the Swedish Tax Agency has an unclear interpretation and handling of the concept. In turn, according to Swedish Friluftsliv itself, the Swedish Tax Agency in different regions has allowed local outdoor associations, such as the Swedish Lifesaving Society, to apply the price base rule, while the same organisations in other parts of the country were not allowed to use the rule. Thus, sporting activities have been assessed differently in different trials. We believe that this is unclear and unreasonable. Swedish outdoor activities should of course have the same conditions for their activities as Swedish sports life in general. Otherwise, we risk ignoring a large and very important part of the public health promotion work. In view of this, we believe that Swedish Friluftsliv with sub-organisations should also be subject to the rule of half the basic amount in the Social Insurance Act as part of the work on outdoor development in Sweden.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-628	Madam President, I would like The report we are about to discuss has been described in detail just now. It covers a rather small but important issue with regard to those who have a profession in research and development. It is important to reduce the general salary levy for people working in the field of research and development. In this way, of course, I and the Center Party agree that we should reduce the general wage bill even further. This will mean that there is a potential and a greater opportunity to develop the areas and innovations involved. It is useful, not only for us here in Sweden, but for the whole world if it wants to be well, and that is what it wants. In addition, Madam President, there are other extremely important areas when it comes to looking at how we can improve and create more jobs in Sweden. We need to be aware of the reality of jobs, entrepreneurship and skills, and not only in the densely populated metropolitan areas here in Sweden – it should exist throughout the country. We in the Center Party are serious about the whole country living. This means that we in Parliament must create the conditions for this. Per Åsling, our center party from Jämtland County, has submitted a motion that shows the way to how it could be possible to get the whole of Sweden to live. In Norway there is a system of regionally differentiated employers' contributions. This gives all parts of the country of Norway fair conditions, including the municipalities that are far from the major cities – Oslo, Trondheim and Bergen. Thanks to the fact that employers' contributions are now reduced, citizens and entrepreneurs throughout the country are offered a good service. This has meant and means that more people settle in the sparsely populated areas. The reduced social security contribution applies to everyone, not only private companies but also to the public sector. In addition, the EU has approved this, which means a great deal when we change our various contributions, not least employers' contributions. In other words, there are only benefits to the proposal implemented in Norway. That is why it is important for us here in Sweden to look at it and take after it. Professor Almås at the Norwegian Centre for Rural Research believes that it could easily be implemented in Sweden as well. We can also in Sweden make the whole country live in the way the Norwegians have done. That, Madam President, is why I and the Center Party are in favour of Per Åsling's motion and reservation 4 in paragraph 4. Before closing my speech, I would like to take this opportunity to comment on our old-age pension system, as the report also states. We in Sweden have decided to have a long-term perspective when it comes to strengthening our pensions. In the Pensions Group, which includes me, we have decided to find a solution for raising our pension systems and getting more money for our pensioners. But there is not only one way to solve it, Madam President. It is therefore important that we look at all the possibilities and proposals that exist and not just take on board what the report is about today.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-633	Madam President, I would like It is very exciting to debate with the members of the Social Security Committee. The speech before me was a little about Per Åsling, who sits in the committee that I usually sit in. It feels a bit sprawling, but I will try to stick to the report. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation in the report. We believe that the Government's proposal should be rejected in its entirety. As early as 2014, rules on the reduction of social security contributions for research and development workers were introduced. The Left Party then voted against the proposal. When the government now proposes further reductions, this is done without the previous reduction having been evaluated. There is also no international comparison of this. There is also a clear risk that the enabling regulatory framework will be misused in order to use the reduction for persons not to be covered by it. Here, there is a slight increase in incentives for companies to use the reduction even for employees who do not work with research and development. The level of risk could have been analysed if the previous reduction had been evaluated. Moreover, the proposal is obviously aimed at large companies which can make these deductions to the extent that is now possible. At the same time, the impact of the proposal on employment or the economy as a whole in the long term is not really specified. The risk is that the proposal will simply lead to the subsidisation of research and development which would have been carried out in any case in large companies. The Left Party believes that subsidizing these companies is not a priority. Instead, the money put into the national budget for 2020 to finance the proposal could finance spending on welfare. There is no reason to subsidise large companies before welfare, especially in a situation where welfare across the country's municipalities is in desperate need of resources. In addition, efforts on general welfare are central to a more equal society and to reducing economic disparities. An increased tax credit for research and development is crucial if you want to subsidise and push our common tax money into the big business. I think they'll be fine without it.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-640	Madam President, I would like The need for an active civil society is more important than for many years. This is where we find meeting places that are now needed, for example, based on the integration debt that Sweden has to deal with. We need more meeting places. Today there is an increasing recognition that the loneliness of our elderly is one of our absolutely greatest social problems. In Sweden there are parishes, associations, educational associations and others who make important efforts to break this. If we think about it for a moment, I think we all understand that civil society with its different communities is creating great added value. We shall take care of them, and as politicians we shall be sure to support and develop them. I therefore support the Christian Democrats' reservation No 5 to extend the possibility of reducing employers' contributions for associations and to announce this to the government. Today we have a regime whereby all sports associations that are members of the National Sports Federation have more favourable tax rules than other associations, organisations and communities that are designated as non-profit-making. The current rules mean that a sports association does not have to pay employers' contributions for sportsmen, competition officials or trainers provided that the remuneration is less than half a price base amount. The amount of prisba today is SEK 47 300. This means that the sports club that pays a compensation of less than SEK 23 650 per year does not have to pay an employer's contribution. This rule has been created in order to promote the activities of the sports movement, and the positive health effects on children who can benefit from it are well established. The Christian Democrats are therefore in favour of this order. After my many years as chairman of Örebro SK Bandy I know how tax rules affect how sports clubs act and what the contracts you write with players look like. It is about the compensation that is given, but also about how many months such compensation is paid. In many sports, as in the bandy, it is difficult today to engage in team and sporting activities, not least at the elite level. It is simply being forced into structures that are not optimal for sport itself, but it is still being chosen because it is, for fiscal reasons, the most advantageous. I have never met anyone in Sports Sweden who did not think that the rule that employers' contributions do not have to be paid on remuneration up to half a basic amount is valuable, quite the contrary. Everyone sees the value of this. I say this as a background to the Christian Democratic reservation. We want other non-profit associations to benefit from the same conditions as for sports clubs. This makes it possible to provide a small financial compensation for actions that are important for people, nature and water conservation, education and more. I know after my years in the sports movement but also as a priest and later a parishioner in the Swedish Church how there are enthusiasts who really sacrifice their time to be for others. We'll be extremely careful of those souls. What few seem to think about, I sometimes feel, is that the volunteers we are talking about need encouragement, direction, coordination, support and training. At present, however, it is not possible, for example, to give a small compensation to a person who takes responsibility for coordinating, quality assurance and training people who make contributions to a congregation's visiting group by visiting the lonely elderly. If you give such a person SEK 1 000 or more per year, you have to pay the employer's contribution. This is to be seen in comparison with the fact that today it is perfectly possible to give a football player who plays in division 4 almost SEK 3 000 a month and at the same time avoid paying an employer's fee. I think that the latter is all right. It's not my headache. But I think everyone feels, if you think about it, that if you compare with the former, it's totally crazy. Madam President, I would like In older preparatory work, it has been stressed that how we design taxation can have a negative impact on members' willingness to participate in associations' activities. Today, undoubtedly, time is an ever-increasing shortage not only in your life and in my life, but in everyone's life. Among all the country's non-profit organisations, it is one of the most prioritised issues. How are we to solve this so that people feel that they have time to spend on nonprofit activities? To then be able to give a substitute, even if it is only symbolic in size, is a solution to what I am trying to describe. In 2016, the government states that the tax legislation for non-profit associations should not counteract the existence of a vital association life. From this point of view, I believe that it is not only reasonable for non-profit associations to be given the same conditions and for employers' contributions not to be paid on benefits below half a price base amount. That is also very logical. That is why I support the Christian Democrats' reservation.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-651	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the Social Security Committee's report No 15 and, therefore, for the government proposal to strengthen the reduction of employers' contributions for research and development workers. At the same time, this means that I am calling for all reservations to be rejected. For the Social Democrats, a well-developed welfare society is closely linked to successful companies and a policy of job creation. It has therefore been important for the Social Democratic-led government to develop, among other things, a new industrialisation strategy and an export strategy. At the beginning of Smart Industry – a new industrialisation strategy for Sweden, there is a foreword that says: ..................................................... With this insight, it is important that we then shape a policy to make it easier for these companies to develop and to research new, smart products on the world market. During two of the points in Smart Industry – a new industrialisation strategy for Sweden, it is said to make it more attractive for researchers to be active in Sweden and to make it more attractive for companies to invest in and conduct R & D activities in Sweden. This can be done in many different ways. In the matter and the proposal we are debating here today, it is proposed to reduce employers' contributions for people working in research and development. Of course, I do not think that is the only way. Basically, I believe that the ability to attract competence to Swedish companies lies in how we organize and build our society. As regional councillor in Region Skåne a number of years ago, I worked on the question of getting the large international research facility ESS to Lund. I remember a meeting we had with neutron scientists and management of other world-leading research facilities. The message from them about their conditions was extremely clear: Make sure that there are good preschools, good schools, a functioning labour market and a rich cultural and leisure offering! It is therefore a question of creating the attractive environments that make people want to live in a place, because then the skills also move to the companies that establish themselves there and to the research facilities that are there. Therefore, the most important thing for strengthening research and development in companies is actually the efforts made by the previous Social Democratic Government through general state grants to the municipalities and which we continue with during this term of office. It is therefore a question of additional resources for municipalities to maintain good quality in their operations. In addition to the more general measures on the part of society for companies and competence to want to move here, it is about how we strengthen our part in what can be research clusters, development clusters and industrial clusters. Again, I take an example from my home region. In Skåne, which is a part of the Öresund region, the clustering takes place on both sides of Sundet. If we are to be involved in getting companies competitive on the Swedish side, we must also follow and give Swedish companies good conditions. We can do that through this dossier. Therefore, the increased reduction in the employer's contribution is important for Swedish companies that have high costs for both research and development in order to be able to stand up well in competition. Several parties have asked for an evaluation of the reform introduced in 2014. On the part of the Social Democrats, we share the view that an evaluation should be carried out. This also states the government in the bill, and we are pleased that such an evaluation will be carried out. Of course, we are not without evidence; we know roughly how the right of deduction that has already existed has been distributed. We know that a large proportion of those who take part in the aid are small enterprises with less than ten employees. We also know that the Stockholm region is dominant as both its corporate structure and its size. But if we look at the relationship between how you have taken part in this and what type of company you have, we also see that it is upper and middle Norrland and South Sweden that use the deduction to a greater extent than other regions. It is important for us, who safeguard the whole country to live and also safeguard small companies' ability to develop their business and conduct research. Sweden is an export-dependent country, which needs strong competitiveness and to be at the forefront of research and development of new products – whether it is new environmental technology, improved IT systems, better construction technology or whatever it may be. As I have said, the bill and the committee's report are part of strengthening the competitiveness of Swedish companies. But it's far from the only part. Therefore, we need to continue working on the conditions for municipalities to build well-being communities that are good and that make people want to live in our country. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-668	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Rikard Larsson for his speech. For a moment, one might think that the Social Democrats really care a lot about welfare. As Rikard states, well-being is important when companies establish themselves but also when attracting competence to Sweden. But the fact is that there is a crisis in the country's municipalities. Around the country there are cuts going on. They go on in school, in care for the elderly and in childcare. Social services are being cut back and so on in the municipalities of the country. We were involved in forcing the government to spend money on the municipalities. However, much more is needed than that. Welfare is in desperate need of resources. Here we want to spend a great deal of money on a reduction that has not even been evaluated. I heard Mr Rikard talking about small businesses, but this is mainly aimed at large companies. They're the ones who use this the most. In particular, small businesses find it difficult to document with the right quality. They do not have the resources to meet the Swedish Tax Agency's requirements and so on. Why do you go ahead with the proposal when the reform has not even been evaluated? I heard Mr Rikard also said that this needs to be evaluated, so why are you making the proposal now?
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-673	Madam President, I would like When we discuss the conditions of well-being and the municipalities, it is extremely important that we also have with us that the conditions for municipalities are created by what the labour market and employment look like. Sometimes we tend to get stuck in a discussion as if it were SEK 2 1⁄2 billion in this House that determined how the municipalities can live up to their welfare mission. The basic thing for the municipalities is that we have well-functioning companies where people have a job that makes you pay taxes. Nearly 70 per cent of the municipal income comes from this. It is clear that it is a bit difficult when you discuss this with left-wing parties, because it is always very close at hand for them to say that companies are big and mean and should be punished. We Social Democrats do not believe that a society is being built. We believe that by providing good conditions for companies, they give them the opportunity to research, develop and develop products that enable more people to become employees and that we get more tax revenue for the municipalities. There is clearly a difference between the policy of the Left Party and that of the Social Democrats. I agree that the reform should have been evaluated. Now we are making this reinforcement. It is therefore not a new reform, but a strengthening of the old one. This should then be evaluated. The majority of those who used this were still small companies with under ten employees. This strengthening in itself can also strengthen the situation of the small research-intensive companies that are our future. It's those we're supposed to live on in the form of tax revenue to build prosperity for.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-678	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Social Democrats do not want to talk about welfare and the municipalities' commitments, because they have not wanted to push the resources needed for municipalities to be able to do this. In Varberg municipality, next to the municipality I come from, the children get a sandwich of soft bread as a meal because they have cuts. Then we need more money. It's no harder than that. Then Rikard Larsson claims that we see the big companies as villains. I have not said that in my speech at all. But those who have earned a lot of money from this deduction are above all Ericsson, Volvo Cars, Saab Group, Volvo Group, Scania and Astra Zeneca. They have a billion-dollar turnover, and I think they can pay for this themselves. It is also mainly large companies that work to withdraw skills. It is a good business environment in Sweden. Corporate tax has been reduced for many years. Now it is gradually reduced to 20.6%. Yet there are more cream files for the big business than for the welfare when you have not even evaluated the previous reduction. It is very sad that the Social Democrats are going that way. But I fully understand that the Social Democrats do not want to talk about welfare commitments across the country's municipalities.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-683	Madam President, I would like That is exactly what I am talking about with the Left Party. It is trying to be intimidated by saying that we are giving big profits to big companies. But nowhere is there a mention of the 1 400 - 1 500 small businesses with under ten employees who have also benefited from the deduction. Why are they not mentioned at all? Well, it's because you want to paint a picture of big private companies being the bad guys in the world. On the part of the Social Democrats, we do not believe that this is the case. We believe that both small and large companies in this country are extremely important, whether they are Ikea, Volvo, Ericsson or Börje's Mechanical. They are extremely important for building well-being in our country, because they create jobs. I think it would have been good if the Left Party had also seen all parts of this reform and looked at who has actually taken part in it. Then you can see that it may also have strengthened our competitiveness in Sweden internationally. I think that the Left Party should also think that strengthening Swedish competitiveness is a good thing. Now the Left Party is saying that the Social Democrats are basically lowering the welfare of this country. In the budget, it was during the last parliamentary term that our parties decided on the contribution of resources to welfare. Now we are increasing them compared to what Tony Haddou and I agreed on during the last parliamentary term. I think that's good.
i-Sf2K5BGpSFcJEtm7WtNqgQ	Madam President, I would like Firstly, on behalf of the Liberals, I would like to support the proposal and the committee's proposal in the report 'Strengthening the reduction of employers' contributions for people working in research or development'. Madam President, I would like Sweden is and will remain a knowledge nation. Our population is well educated. Healthcare is our largest knowledge organisation. It is at the forefront of the world, and our industry is very advanced and high-tech. This is the result of a long Swedish tradition of investing in education available to all. We know that higher education, research, innovation and training provide the basis for meeting different societal challenges, and this contributes to economic growth. In order to maintain a strong position in international competition and attract the most prominent researchers, students, a repreneur and innovators, Sweden needs to be in the absolute forefront of international competitiveness. One of the areas where Sweden is at its strongest is within life's science. This includes research and development of products, services and technologies that create the conditions for increased service life and quality of life. It drives the development of new therapies, medicines, diagnostic methods and an improved healthcare system that benefits not only Sweden but the whole world. Life's science employs a large number of people in Sweden in several large clusters around the country, of which perhaps Lund, Gothenburg and Stockholm – Uppsala are the best known. To risk, for reasons of cost, the destruction of this industry and the confidence in the future in all these areas where competition is enormous would be a fatal mistake. Madam President, I would like I am pleased and pleased today that we have agreed today, under the J Anuari Agreement, on a strengthened reduction in employers' contributions for people working in research or development with a view to strengthening Swedish competitiveness. Proposition one points out that good conditions for research and development are of great importance for Sweden to create growth in a globalised economy. It is not only increasing the productivity of the company operating it, but also having positive externalities in regions and for the whole country. Since the companies that bear the cost of research or development cannot actually be credited and assimilate the entire return on investment, there is a risk that there will be too little research and development in relation to what is economically optimal. There are therefore obvious socio-economic reasons for subsidising research and development. In addition, available statistics show that a large proportion of enterprises using the current reduction are small and medium-sized enterprises, as the previous speaker mentioned. According to data provided by the Swedish Tax Agency, approximately 1 750 companies reported fee bases and savings in 2018 for employees working with research and development. So it is not three or four large companies that are involved, but it was 1 750 companies. It is important that they are given the opportunity to develop and flourish in increasingly fierce competition. Madam President, I would like I note that the Left Party and the S verige democrats are opposed to the proposal. I'm very sorry about that. The reduction in employers' contributions is a relatively cheap measure that will mean a huge amount to Swedish companies and their employees. We have evidence that this is a cheap and effective measure that hits relatively right. To stand up for employment in Swedish municipalities and in all parts of our country and growth here in Sweden is incomprehensible to me. Finally, I would like to say that Mr V iberaler shares the view of the Moderates in principle that general tax reductions and reductions in employers' contributions are the best policy and that specific solutions such as this should be avoided. However, it must always be balanced against cow aden. Therefore, Madam President, today's proposal is a good and necessary proposal for the future of Sweden. I would ask that the committee's proposal be included in the report.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-698	Madam President, I would like I would like to make it clear to the audience and to those who watch television and via the web that the Swedish Democrats are behind the bill and the report. We think it is positive that we are doing this reinforcement. On the other hand, we believe that the evaluation that should have been carried out already in connection with the first reinforcement of the 2014 budget proposal should be carried out. I just want to clarify that. It would be very attractive if we were to tell the truth in this House.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-699	Madam President, I would like Of course we should be right. However, you Swedish democrats have reserved themselves in the report within the framework of the proposal. That's what I meant. If I wasn't clear, I'm sorry about that. While I have the floor and we are debating this, I can say that we Liberals believe that history shows that we have the basis for the necessary decision today. It is an industry that is incredibly competitive, and Sweden is not in the middle of the world but on the outskirts. Yet Sweden is a lace nation. We live a lot on our successes from the past. We need new successes to continue that journey. I have no objection to our having clear evaluations and reviews, Madam President, of what our decisions have led to historically and of what they will lead to in order for us to make good decisions, but we must also dare and have the opportunity to move forward with necessary things that strengthen Sweden as a nation and Sweden's competitiveness.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-702	Madam President, I would like I agree with exactly what Bengt Eliasson says. We also write that in our reservation. We support the reduction. At the same time, several consultation bodies maintain that this review should have been carried out much earlier. That's what we're pushing. We really want to see it done within two years of this change coming into force.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-703	Madam President, I would like We can then only be happy and agree that we now together are doing this reduction in the employer's fee for research and development so that we actually give the Swedish cutting edge industry tools to take further steps forward.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-704	Madam President, I would like The report deals with a proposal to increase the reduction of employers' contributions for people working in research or development, but also with the exercise of general exercise time on social security contributions. I would like to begin by calling for the rejection of all the motions. Otherwise, I will only devote this speech to the bill, which I propose to the House to approve later this afternoon. Companies that employ researchers have since 2014 an opportunity to make a deduction in employers' contributions for employees working in research and development. This is about 10 percent, and the deductions for all employees within the company together can amount to 230 000 SEK per month. The proposal proposes that this amount should be increased to SEK 450 000 per month, which means that the reform in this stage and in this part is aimed at the larger companies that employ many researchers and are of great importance for Swedish research. In addition to this reinforcement, it is proposed that the general wage contribution should be reduced for the same group of employees, also by 10%, which, of course, continues to benefit the many small but important research-intensive companies that have been deducted since before. The aim of this reform for research-strong companies is, of course, to strengthen Sweden as a research nation and strengthen the research carried out in the Swedish business community. Research has the nature that it is a major risk-taking issue. Far from all research leads to final benefits, if that word is used, in the form of new technologies and new products for companies. However, research conducted by a company can lead to continued research and also profits in other companies or for all parts of the public sector. There is thus a socio-economic benefit in that companies are encouraged to venture into more research. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a leading research nation. Swedish research stands very strong in international comparisons. We invest large resources in research, a total of well over SEK 150 billion each year. Of this amount, the state accounts for around 40 billion, which mainly goes to higher education institutions and universities but also to the research councils. But business, the corporate sector, accounts for nearly SEK 100 billion each year. That's good. This places Sweden among the few nations that invest most in research and development per capita. We are among the top five OECD countries in the evaluations that the Swedish Research Council, for example, publishes at regular intervals, approximately every two years, in its research barometers. But it is above all public funding that is really strong. The business sector invests slightly less than in comparable countries. We can also look a little further back in history. Then we see a downward trend in companies' research efforts in the 21st century. There is therefore reason to stimulate research efforts in the business sector. The increased R & D deduction is one way of doing so. Let us remember one thing about the deduction that we are debating today: in a wider context, it is not a question of very large amounts. This is about half a billion in costs to the public purse for the research deduction that companies are making. This is certainly a lot of money, but it should be compared to the nearly SEK 100 billion that the corporate sector itself invests in research and development or the around SEK 15 billion that the state invests in research in the corporate sector – it is primarily within the framework of the strategic innovation programmes and collaboration between researchers and companies that the state co-finances through Vinnova, the Swedish Agency for Growth, the Swedish Energy Agency and so on. Of course, we should expect the funds we spend from the public treasury to be of use and benefit and companies to respond and deliver high-quality research. This is something that needs to be included in the evaluation that needs to be made of this deduction. I want to make it clear that the Green Party obviously supports the need for such an evaluation. I think we agree on that between the parties. Madam President, I would like As regards the direction of research in the coming years, the government will return this autumn with a research and innovation policy proposal. The companies are of course a very important part of Swedish research policy. The research should be free. The best research is the free, curiosity-driven research. But the strategic cooperation programmes and innovation programmes, the so-called SIPs, will probably also be addressed in the bill. And the bill will set out the direction of the state initiatives. We have a number of societal challenges that research needs to be involved in dealing with. This applies not least to the climate, where our municipalities and regions need to be supported in research on how to deal with, for example, strong winds, large amounts of precipitation, drought, heat and fires. But it is also about the large flows of refugees that not least the UN expects to come in the wake of climate change. The UN has forecasted 200 million climate refugees globally around the middle of the century, i.e. within three decades. How should we deal with this situation globally, within the EU, in Sweden and in our municipalities? Research on climate adaptation is needed here, and not only research on forecasting and climate change, which has dominated climate research for many years. The health challenge is another challenge. Here clinical research and more research is needed for safer care. Today, almost 1,200 patients die unnecessarily in Swedish healthcare every year. So we need more research on patient safety. Medicines and chemicals need to be tested. If we can streamline this management by reducing the need for animal testing and instead researching alternative methods, we can reduce both time and costs in life science research, for example, in addition to a more ethical research process. These are some of the elements that I expect from publicly funded research in the future, but also the companies are involved in contributing to both basic and applied research. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-720	Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a country with growth and happy people. The basis for this is a well-functioning school, where all children succeed and gain knowledge and education. That is not the case today. More than one in four pupils leave comprehensive school without a complete grade, and we have an extensive teacher shortage. As many as 65 000 teachers will be missing in 2025. One in four teachers has been subjected to violence, sexual harassment or violations. More than half of the students report that they are disturbed in the classroom. We also have 5,000 children who do not go to school today even though they would. Yesterday, Bris presented the annual report for 2019. During the year, 27 143 calls were made via chat, e-mail and telephone. Nearly 5,000 of these talks were about the school and the school's shortcomings. I read aloud from the Bri report: a discussion about vulnerability at school is about being subjected to bullying; being subjected to ridicule, harassment, physical violence and threats of violence from peers, and also about experiencing the school as an unsafe place to stay. The school is a common crime scene for young people, and the feeling of being insecure naturally affects children's feelings and living conditions. ..................................................... Bris goes on to say that mental illness is the most common topic of conversation in Bris when children seek support and the severity of children's conversations continues to increase. Talks about suicide have increased by as much as 88 percent over the last four years. During the same period of time, conversations about self-harm have increased by 55 percent and eating disorders by 48 percent. Many children keep their bad feelings to themselves and do not tell about how they feel to loved ones in their lives. In the talks to Bris, children describe that it is difficult to get help and support for one's life and there are major shortcomings in how society is able to meet children's needs for, and the right to, health care. Some do not know where to turn for help and there are shortcomings in treatment with care. Children, for example, tell us that they find it difficult to get help if they are not judged to be poor enough. A common thread in the stories is that children feel that they are not sufficiently informed or involved in their situation, that they are passed around between actors or have to wait in care queues, and that the different caregivers are unable to see the whole picture around the child. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like In today's case there are a number of proposals both from us Moderates and from other parties that would be good, if not necessary, for Swedish schools. Let me mention some of the proposals that we are putting forward today. We propose that children with special needs be ensured the opportunity to achieve the knowledge goals in the form of adaptations, such as smaller teaching groups or resource schools. We suggest that children should be able to retake grades so that comprehensive school ensures that all children achieve the knowledge goals. We Moderates propose extending compulsory schooling to 18 years, and we want a vocational school as an alternative to upper secondary school for those who are better suited to that form of school. We want to abolish the student's choice in its current form and instead use the hours to prioritise the subjects that students need. We want to investigate the head of student health so that children are not shoveled between BUP, student health and the health centre. We also want to amend the law in order to force the interaction between these different actors and thus ensure that children receive input when needed. We also want to introduce knowledge contracts, reduce the number of state subsidies and instead give more money directly to the municipalities, to mention a few things. All proposals today are rejected, sometimes without explanation, sometimes with reference to various investigations. I think it is a pity, because as long as every fourth child goes out of Swedish school without having passed the comprehensive school and received a complete grade, I think that all the proposals are worth discussing and thinking about. In view of this, Madam President, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 1.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-734	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats, of course, support all their reservations on the matter, but, in accordance with the agreement that exists in this House, I am only in favour of reservation 2. Exactly a week ago, we stood in this Chamber discussing and debating high school. In that debate, we moved on to a number of issues that also fit into this debate, which therefore relate to overall school issues regardless of the form of school. Sometimes the limits of what falls under the respective debate may be rather unclear. For example, there are a number of issues on this subject that were very well suited to a debate on primary school. But now it is what it is, and we have to deal with it. A week ago, when I was standing here, I stressed the seriousness of the fact that so many students leave comprehensive school without being eligible for upper secondary school. In the spring of 2019, 17,400 pupils left comprehensive school without being eligible for any upper secondary school programme at all. If you add those who do not have a complete certificate of leaving, around a quarter of all students do not achieve the knowledge goals in grade 9. That, of course, is not good. Earlier this week, we heard that the government is preparing to introduce a ten-year primary school as part of its efforts to increase the number of hours of teaching in comprehensive school and thus improve results. First of all, let me emphasise that we Swedish democrats are not fundamentally opposed to the idea of a ten-year primary school. However, since the pre-school class in 2018 was made mandatory, we see this issue as rather out of hand. For our part, it was important to extend compulsory schooling. It must also be questioned whether labelling or the number of hours in school are crucial for a strong acquisition of knowledge and improved school outcomes. For us, it is more about what is done during the time the students are in school than how many hours they are there. Unless the content is strengthened, it does not matter how many hours of teaching or schooling we introduce. Then we can have an 11-, 12- or 13-year primary school. There seems to be an overconfidence that the solution is for the children to go more years in school. We Swedish democrats think it is better to focus on content and protect quality rather than quantity. For example, the preschool class could more than today serve as a lock into primary school, where pupils have to get used to the new environment in something that is a good intermediate step between preschool and primary school. In the best of worlds, the preschool class could also serve as a form of control station where children who are judged to need longer preparation for comprehensive school could remain in the preschool class for another year. But then we need a completely different level of intellectual debate from that which is now being presented by the government and the support parties. To continue on the theme of control stations, we see a serious problem that today's students can go several years in school before it is stated that the levels of knowledge are not sufficient. Most often, the principals then resort to desperate measures such as summer school and holiday school to ensure that the students at best catch up. This, of course, creates even more pressure on already under pressure students. Aid and support measures should, of course, be, and also to some extent, ongoing in each school year, but for those students who nevertheless do not achieve the goals of important nuclear materials, it should be more reasonable to remain in the grade than to be moved up to the next. We believe that there should be such a real possibility. Without a solid foundation in the subjects, it will otherwise be difficult to acquire knowledge of higher grades. We therefore want the Vice-Chancellor, after an overall assessment and consultation with the class teacher and the subject teachers, to be able to make a decision on the student's need to retake the course. This decision shall not require parental approval. An important prerequisite for passing the studies is also to have a good knowledge of the Swedish language. Today we see that many schools are struggling with the problem that many students have come in for a very short time with a mother tongue other than Swedish. We believe that today's preparation classes are not up to date. They must be strengthened and improved. The legal regulation must be rewritten, and there must also be greater demands on knowledge of the Swedish language before students are transferred to the ordinary class. We also believe that consideration should be given to a level grouping in Swedish, mathematics and English from year 7. Students' learning does not always take place at the same pace, and when all students follow the same teaching groups, there is a risk that the weak-performing students fall even further behind and that those who are easy to learn lose motivation. A tiering in a general and a specific group would instead benefit both of these student groups. As I have mentioned several times before, the Swedish Democrats are in favour of a government headship for the public school. We think it was a big mistake to publicise the school at one time. It has weakened the status of the teaching profession, and it has not helped to strengthen equivalence – quite the opposite. National targets, ambitions and guidelines must be guiding in all situations. When municipalities interpret these differently and make different priorities, it strikes hard at just equivalence. In this discussion there are those who want to hit hard at the free choice of school. Let me therefore be clear: the Swedish Democrats stand up for free school elections and will not contribute to any restrictions on this. However, we believe that there is reason to strengthen the requirements for free-school establishments. We want to do this through stricter control of the economic conditions and of those who want to start a free school. We also propose to introduce a requirement for an economic buffer to ensure the long-term sustainability of education and to ensure that pupils who start education can also complete it. We are also generally opposed to foreign interests financing schools in Sweden, and we want to see a ban in the School Act on representatives, individuals or organisations outside the Nordic region being able to finance independent schools or preschools. Exceptions should of course be made for example for international schools, the IB programme, schools abroad that are intended for Swedish students or already well-established and well-functioning schools. We also want a stop to the start-up of religious free schools. In their budget reservation for 2020, the Swedish Democrats proposed a so-called security billion in order to address the problems of school order. The increasing insecurity at school must be taken very seriously. Studying is a basic prerequisite for learning. In addition to the proposals that we have highlighted in previous debates, such as clear regulations to support teachers and the introduction of emergency schools, we also want to strengthen the School Inspectorate. More unannounced visits and more follow-ups need to be made. The School Inspectorate must also be given greater powers to act against dysfunctional schools – both municipal and independent. We want more checks to be carried out and the procedures for these checks to be developed and strengthened. Finally, the Swedish Democrats want to abolish the Children's and Student's Representative. It is not reasonable to have two different departments within an organisation that can make completely different assessments. Basically, this means that the authority opposes itself. We are also deeply critical of the development that has taken place in the field of activities of the Children's and Student's Ombudsman. The idea from the beginning was to act against principals who did not take hold of bullying problems, for example. Instead, the Children's and Student's Ombudsman has conducted processes where teachers are criticized and pointed out for offending students. In a number of high-profile cases, the representative has not even been in contact with the designated teacher or school staff. This is not in line with the requirements that need to be imposed on legally secure processes. We therefore believe that this is something that needs to be corrected urgently. Madam President, I would like These were, in the main, our views on the matter.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-751	Madam President, I would like What determines whether you pass school and manage to absorb the knowledge that society believes you need to bring along? It is, of course, to a large extent the individual student's abilities, the conditions for taking in information with which the student has been born, such as the student's ability to sit still and read or to convey what one actually can. It is about the student's background, what support the student receives at home, the number of books in the shelves at home with the parents and their support in reading homework. For us in the Education Committee, there is not much to do on this issue, but we politicians can do a lot in other areas. On the other hand, we are responsible for making as much difference as possible for the students who attend school. What can we do? Well, we can make sure there are good teachers. It is not something we should discuss today, but it is just to note that the teachers are the most crucial for whether the individual student is doing well or not. What we can influence, and which we are actually going to decide today, is what means schools have at their disposal to combat inequality in school. There is an important tool in the equivalence grant, which we are presenting together with the government, of 6 billion over time and which the School Commission has proposed. Then we will ensure the ability to deal with the inequalities that accompany children to school. In this way, all children will have a greater level playing field and will be able to succeed in school. We can also influence what can be done when a student does not reach the goals. That is why we are introducing homework guarantees and a priority hourly plan for those children who are at risk of not becoming eligible for upper secondary school. There's a big social list here. We can see that those who do not reach the targets today mostly come from the socially weakest homes. That is why it is extremely important to do something. We introduced the read-write-count guarantee in the School Act in July 2019. More money is being added there, which is extremely important. What is absolutely crucial are the basic tools for a child to take in information and then be able to show the way to himself in the future. We can also influence how much time the student gets to learn what he or she needs to learn. There, the Center Party proposes that we try a three-term system in Swedish school and see if it can mean an effort for those who are having a difficult time, i.e. shorter time away from school so that they have better opportunities to take on the teaching. We are now introducing ten years of schooling. The crucial thing is that the fantastic preschool educators in preschool classes can remain. We have put pressure on this issue in the face of the change that is now taking place. We can also influence how the students are at school. There is much talk of mental illness, but in addition to mental illness, we must also talk about mental health. With good mental health, there will be less mental illness, and we almost always focus on what is bad. Here we would like to introduce the subject called life knowledge, which is available in Denmark, Norway and Finland. In the January agreement, student health has been highlighted. This also means that there is an investigation in progress that will present new proposals on how we can create better pupil health and ensure that everyone has access to it. In February 2021, the investigation will be presented, and I look forward to that. It is crucial that the students feel well so that they can absorb knowledge. This also means providing early support for those who need it. Fortunately, this issue is also included in the January agreement, and there is a study to look at the issue of ensuring that students better reach the goals. We are looking at the support measures that can be made. Madam President, I would like We can also influence what students need to learn, and there we review the curricula and knowledge requirements. It has been extremely difficult for many students to absorb what they need to learn. What is counterproductive is when teachers and students do not understand what students need to learn in school. We are also reviewing the rating criteria. We need a rating system based on a more reasonable view of people's knowledge. It cannot be that if you fail in a small area, you will be punished in all areas. We are changing that, which is fantastically good. Madam President, I would like We can also influence how students are given the opportunity to learn. This is true when there is a lack of teachers with the necessary skills, as is the case in many places today. We will introduce the possibility of using remote learning to a much greater extent than before. It will be an enormous boost for both rural schools and many schools in exclusion areas today where there is a lack of qualified teachers. We all wish that there would be qualified teachers everywhere, but now that it does not, we need to review the conditions and opportunities for creating an education that holds even for those who do not have access to a qualified teacher. There is room for a large quality lift in Swedish school by allowing the best teachers to teach more at the same time. It is not entirely wrong to use the modern digital methods that exist, although many are sceptical about digitization at school. Madam President, I would like We can also influence what school principals need to focus on. Several have raised the Children's and Student's representative. There are many who want to remove this function, but we can see that there are also times when children are suffering from abuse because of the actions of schools. There must be ways for them to be heard, but the solution that exists right now is not good. We need to look at this. We in the Center Party believe that a complaint should first be dealt with by the principal. This is to remove a lot of administration for the individual school and not least for the headmaster but also to ensure that the child and student ombudsman can focus on the most important areas. Then we will have less administration and less pressure on the teachers, who will feel safer. We get a solution that is based more on trust and less on a major administrative crash, as it can easily be when the child and student ombudsman is included. At the same time, we can make it easier to be the principal by providing fewer targeted state subsidies. We in the Center Party have made it clear that we want to reduce the number of targeted state subsidies in the field of schools. The budget proposal that will now take the first steps with a number of proposals, such as a new collective state grant for the career stage et for the first teacher, so that the principals and principals can focus on creating a good school and workplace and teaching what needs to be taught before spending all their time on applying for grants that they still deserve. It's extremely important. Madam President, I would like We can also influence when we say not when the school does not keep to the level it should actually keep. We have too many schools where children do not receive the education and knowledge they need and then be able to map out their own path in life. Therefore, it is important that the School Inspectorate tells and inspects the quality of teaching, but also that the inspection is guided by and based on relevant and quality-assured research so that we know that what you are looking at is what makes a difference. It is also important that schools which do not deliver today are forced to accept support when it is stated that they do not meet the demands that a student can rightly make. Madam President, I would like We want more focus on knowledge and science. There has now finally been a clear mission to identify what is actually good quality. There has been no clear picture of what is good quality in Swedish school, which is remarkable. But now such a mission comes, and we look forward to making it clear what is good quality and how to teach it. We also want to increase research funding for the School Research Institute so that we get more research and science within the school. This, Madam President, is an example of a lot of good things that we can do in this locality. A lot of good things are going on. I think most parties have good proposals. But in addition to good things we're going to do, it's a lot about what we're not going to do. We're not going to spend time on major reorganisations. We should not spend time on symbolic politics, because it makes no difference in Swedish schools. But that is what a large part of the school debate is about, and it is sad. We should certainly not force the staff of the school to break laws and rules, as there are people in this House who believe that we should. We should not prevent principals or teachers from informing students about the rules that apply at school. That, if anything, is a subjugation of the authority and role of teachers and principals in society, so we do not want any more of that. No political desire is above the law, and of course everyone in Parliament should understand that. Unfortunately, this is not the case. Madam President, I would like With those words, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 16.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-773	Madam President, I would like Growing up in poverty has a strong negative impact on children's chances of good life. Save the Children has since 2002 conducted studies that reflect changes in the welfare of children in Sweden. Their report on child poverty shows a lot of interesting but also worrying facts. Among other things, the report shows that in the City of Stockholm, the proportion of children living in economic poverty is lowest on Kungsholmen with 2.8 per cent and highest in Rinkeby-Kista with 24.8 per cent. Corresponding economic gaps within cities are also found in other parts of the country, in Malmö and Gothenburg, but also in other cities. The report also shows that children of single women and children whose one or both parents have a foreign background are more at risk of living in relative poverty. Madam President, I would like Swedish society has changed. From being the world's most equal country and having had the world's most equal school, Sweden has in recent decades been identified by experts and economists as the country where the economic divides increase most. We have also been identified as the country that has the most extreme school system with our free school reform, free school elections, school money and other systems introduced to create a market school. These segregated school election systems, the world's most extreme free school system and a political orientation where it is no longer a priority for everyone to have equal chances of life have devastating consequences for many children. It really affects us all on many levels, but the children are hit hardest. In a society that is torn apart and where gaps are increasing, more children are at risk of being knocked out of school for various reasons linked to inequality. While we know about the facts presented by Save the Children, we know that the mother's educational background and thus class affiliation is crucial for a student's success in school or not. That is why Swedish school policy must be changed. The overall objective must once again be to create an education system based on equivalence and equality and a school system in which the interest of pupils is put before the interest of profit. But we're not there yet. The vast majority of children in Sweden are well. They feed to the school. But we have a serious situation when there are children who come to school hungry. In today's debate, I intended to focus on the issue of equality in that particular area. Personally, I've never liked to have breakfast, but I've always had the opportunity to do it at home. I've even been careful how much I took off my school lunch because I was afraid others would think I didn't have food at home. But many children live in a different reality. Madam President, I would like The school can't solve all the problems. But the school has a crucial role to play in the compensatory mission. The Left Party believes that all children in all schools in the country should be fed every day and therefore wants them to be entitled to breakfast at school. For us, this is as much a matter of course as it is for them to take part in an educational activity of good quality. Of course, this should be done through additional resources and careful investigations. Many children and young people do not eat breakfast at home. This may be because time is not enough due to bus times or parents' working hours, but it may also be due to poor eating habits at home. However, there are also children who are met by an empty refrigerator in the morning, children whose parents cannot afford or buy breakfast. Several of the country's schools today offer breakfast at school. Schools that have breakfast serving quickly discover the benefits. It becomes calmer in the classrooms, absence decreases, pupils become educationally more accessible and their interest in diet and health increases. We believe that breakfast is an important meal and therefore something that should be offered to all students. Breakfast at school should not replace breakfast at home, but it should serve as a complement for those students who for some reason do not have time or can eat at home. Serving breakfast at school is one way to give all students a good start but also good conditions to manage the whole school day. The government should therefore set up an investigation to oblige primary schools to offer free breakfast for their pupils, we in the Left Party believe. Madam President, I would like I know some people think this is an unnecessary idea. It is representatives of the same parties who thought that the school lunch was an unnecessary idea. It should be remembered that all students throughout the country have had access to school lunch since 1997 and that today there is a large majority of us behind this – even those who might have thought it sounded like a bad idea when it was first presented. Sweden currently has a strong economy. There should therefore also be great opportunities to live up to our commitments to uphold children's rights. One such right is to be satisfied. This would benefit both children and school staff. Last, Madam President, I would like to say that I am sorry that I even need to raise this issue. The fact that in 2020 we are living in a society where economic gaps are increasing so much that I need to make a proposal for children to be offered breakfast at school is something that I think we should be sorry about. There's nothing to be needed, but that's what reality looks like. In this connection, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 9.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-792	Madam President, I would like In this report, the Liberals have a number of demands and motions that we have submitted in order to increase the results of knowledge and increase the equivalence and quality of teaching and, not least, respect for Sweden's teachers. But I intend in particular to lift our motion to dismantle the Children's and Student's Ombudsmen at the State School Inspection. That is why, Mr President, I am in favour of our reservation 18 in the report of the Committee on Education. It is no secret that the issues of order problems, disciplinary problems and teachers' authority should be given more attention. And it is no secret that the School Commission already addressed the problem of many teachers having problems interpreting the school law when it comes to intervening against the mess and disorder in the classrooms. Unfortunately, we see in regular surveys, surveys from the Teachers' Association and most recently from the School Inspectorate that six out of ten teachers refrain from intervening against the mess in school and in the classroom – six out of ten teachers! We also see in school surveys that more students feel that other students interfere with the important teaching that is at the heart of the school's knowledge mission. Those most affected by this, Mr President, are those who most need the school's activities and the time of the teachers and of the teachers. What pains us even more is that PISA reports show that in the most vulnerable areas, in addition to a high percentage of unauthorized teachers, there is a high turnover of teachers and principals. But there are also problems with just mess and lack of study and work peace for both students and the teaching staff. That is why, for a year now, we have been stubbornly pushing the issue of dismantling the role of the Children's and Student Representative of the State School Inspection, which we believe has completely failed. It was created ten years ago under the Social Democratic Government. Its head is appointed directly by the government since 2006. In our view, from the outset, the authority worked properly. They helped and assisted students who had been subjected to bullying and insulting treatment. Advice was given, and shortcomings were brought to the attention of the principals, free schools and municipalities. In general, our picture and assessment was that it worked well. But for a few years, we believe that the pendulum has turned over in the other direction. We believe that this authority has developed an assessment culture and practice, an almost activistic one, through its interpretations of the School Act and the Education Act's constitutions on Chapter 5 on teachers' powers and Chapter 6 on so-called personal violations. That is why we have called for the school law to be reviewed, both in terms of teachers' powers and in terms of the so-called personal restrictions, where one should have experienced being violated. Just as some lawyers at the School Inspectorate say: Just because a child claims to have been violated does not mean that it has actually been violated. After these unwieldy complaints and the almost unilateral damages proceedings against not only principals but also individual teachers, it is the individual teachers who will be allowed to sit in court once it is time to hear claims for damages. It is not the school council or the municipal council chairman, but it is the individual teacher or teacher who will eventually sit and defend herself in court proceedings. We believe that this development must be stopped. If you want to report a matter, you should first of all go to your principal, and that is exactly what we are exercising about, Mr President. Then you go to your school headman. If you are not satisfied with the measures they put in place, you should turn to the State's school inspection, the national level. Unfortunately, we do not get the support of so many parties on this issue and for our motion, even though many have been on the so-called registration chain. I would like to inform our colleagues in this House that both the Teachers' Association and the State's school inspection and its Director-General have addressed this problem. It has also been pointed out the absurdity of having a function in the School Inspectorate over which the School Inspectorate's management does not control, but it is two completely parallel organisations in an authority. There are two different lines in one authority. Unfortunately, the government has not been able to resolve this issue. We demand that the Children's and Student's representative be dismantled. I began to raise this issue nationally a year ago. And in retrospect, we have received the support of 16 lawyers, Mr President, in the State School Inspection, who have submitted a signed letter to the Director-General who was not allowed to be disclosed to the public. Thank God we've got it through detours. It has also reached the light of the public in that it was published this summer in Dagens Nyheter, where 16 lawyers completely undermine the assessments of the Children's and Student Ombudsman and, so to speak, criticise the colleagues in the School Inspectorate. I want to know from the colleagues and parties who believe that we should keep the Children's and Student's representative why we should keep the Children's and Student's representative. We already have a school inspection. There are already procedures in place to report to the principal. However, we do not need to retain a role that we believe has played its part, which has meant that teachers do not dare to intervene against the mess. It's not just about these errands. At the beginning when the Children's and Student's representative was created, in 2006, there were about 400 cases, and in 2018 they were up to 1 910 cases. Now we have seen a marginal reduction of 136 cases. However, there is still a dramatic increase in the number of complaints only to the Children's and Student's representative. It is not only the number of damages cases that we should look at, but also another consequence, namely that parents and students threaten school staff, principals and teachers, with making a complaint. That effect we can't quite see the magnitude of yet, but you'll hear about it when you're out on school visits. Most recently, the Teacher Association's report confirms that many teachers, many adults, do not dare take command. Then it will be the troublesome ones who lead the classroom, and then it will be the students who most need a safe school with students and peace of mind that is affected. That is why we will persist in pushing this demand towards the government.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-808	Mr President, I would like to I have a daughter at home in Älvsbyn who started school last autumn. When she left for a month, she came home proudly as a rooster and waved her first lesson. That night was nothing as important as letting her do her first lesson. As Christmas approached, it was evident that she did not enjoy going to school anymore. She was sad and started to say she didn't want to go. There was a problem with some friends, it would turn out. On Monday when it was bedtime and she had left the first day after the sports break I asked her how the school had been. Perfect, she replied. And I was happier than I've been in a long time. Her joy came from seeing good friends but also from having been cross-country skiing in school that day – fantastic! Mr President, I would like to This illustrates quite well how crucial and comprehensive the school is. It's about learning and feeling the joy of growth. It's about becoming a socially well-functioning person and being able to handle relationships with others, who sometimes don't do what you've thought. It's about experiences, about impressions and expressions. What young people experience at school shapes them, and they form together our future society. That's why it's so important that the school is good not only for some but for everyone. Anyone who participates in, listens to or, for that matter, reads the Minutes of this debate must ask himself the question: which society do I want to live in? That is what this and all other school debates are really about. Mr President, I would like to Recent international comparisons show encouraging developments. Teachers like their job, and the perceived status of the teaching profession increases according to Talis. And most recently, PISA's findings increased for the second time in a row. It shows that a negative trend is broken. At the same time, it becomes painfully clear that the school has an overwhelming problem. Differences in Swedish schools do not decrease. Equivalence is deteriorating, and pupils' skills are increasingly determined by background factors such as their mother tongue or the level of education of their parents. The school system is unable to compensate for different life conditions. It's serious. Sweden has had one of the world's most equal and high-performance school systems. That's where we have to go again. The subject matter of the report for today, the report of the Committee on Education and Training 10, is consistently bearing this in mind. Mr President, if you will allow me, I will go over this point-by-point. Let's start by raising the results of our knowledge. To do so, we have just introduced a reading-write-count guarantee in the preschool class and primary school. It means that the school should make sure that every kid can do what is expected by mapping knowledge, analysing needs and making efforts to meet each student's needs. Everyone should learn what will then play a role in all other learning, i.e. reading, writing and counting. It increases equivalence. The government has just set up an investigation to ensure that students are guaranteed help with homework, holiday school if needed and in some cases extended school duty. Unlike RUT deductions for homework aid, which only benefits those who can afford to pay for the homework aid, a homework guarantee has the potential to increase equivalence. The study on how more students should reach the knowledge requirements has been expanded and will come back with suggestions on how a minimum acceptable level of access to pupil health can be regulated. That would definitely increase equivalence. Instead, the right-wing conservative block wants to see a system where it should be easier to let students go over or where there are different models to test if students qualify for the next grade. It is a policy that has as little scientific support as the Swedish Democrats' idea of re-establishing the level grouping general and special course in math, Swedish and English. The right-wing conservative block's ideas about more standardized tests, keeping students and level groupings are completely unsupported in the research. Mr President, I would like to With regard to the distribution of responsibilities and resources in the school system, the State must take greater responsibility. This is crucial for equivalence. We have started the work of allocating resources more fairly so that those who need it get the most. The equivalence grant is designed just that way and involves a large amount of resources for the school system. But this must continue so that all municipalities also build their resource allocation according to the needs of the student groups. As we phase in the equivalence grant, we are also phasing out a bundle of targeted state subsidies. This development will continue in order to make the system more transparent and easy to use and can also fully benefit small principals with small administrative resources. This increases equivalence. When it comes to school elections and free schools, the Moderates, as usual, would rather make it easier for the school groups than better for the students. Possibility for free schools to control using selection and queue systems instead of having a mix of segregations. We have recently introduced ownership and management testing, which may be part of steering away the most rogue players from training. But we must break with the segregated mechanisms of the system. The unfair selection basis of queue time must be replaced at overexplored schools. The goal must be a comprehensive social composition of school units and classes. We need to put in place mechanisms to attract the best teachers and principals with the most challenges. We must put in place the quality indicators that the Swedish National Agency for Education has now been tasked with analysing and developing. We have to break with market governance, and we would have to stop the pursuit of profits. That would increase equivalence. When it comes to supervision, I prefer support. I have said that many times in this House. But supervision is a necessity in a system as diverse as the Swedish school system. Unleashing market forces at school requires inspection. At the same time, it would be beneficial if it were possible to manage the school with trust. It would be valuable to the profession and to the efficiency of the system. With responsible, non-profit actors, supervision could be properly reduced and support systems such as Best School Collaboration could be extended. The January agreement stipulates that during the term of office the government will regionalise the school authorities, which will involve a larger government review. The allocation of responsibilities and supervisory tasks will, of course, also be subject to that review. It would be good for equivalence if the state focused on getting closer to the principals and providing support based on the principals' needs. When it comes to remote education, the government recently submitted a referral to the Law Council. In short, the proposals make it possible to provide long-term education in all the theoretical subjects of primary and secondary school if it is necessary to provide skills or to maintain schools in rural and sparsely populated areas. Distance learning should be available to pupils in need of it. It is an important step in offering equivalent training to qualified teachers based on needs throughout our elongated country. When it comes to IT in school, the government has developed a digitalization strategy for the school system, and SKR, together with the Swedish National Agency for Education, has developed an action plan to realise it. The Government has subsequently appointed the Swedish National Agency for Education as the responsible authority in the sector. All these elements are important for the equivalence of school digitisation. Mr President, I would like to School policy is about what society we want to live in. I want to live in a society where all people feel participative and community, where all students can learn, develop, grow and rejoice in their schooling as comprehensively as my daughter. That is why school policy must now focus on strengthening the equivalence within and between the country's schools. I therefore call for the proposal of the Committee on Education and Training to be approved in report 10 and for all motions to be rejected.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-830	Mr President, I would like to This is not the first time we have heard what Linus Sköld says, and it usually comes from the Social Democratic side. It is about the fact that we once had an equal and high-performance school system. I usually ask myself what time it is. We can go back and look, Linus Sköld. I assume you mean sometime around 1980 or 1990, that's the time you're pointing to. What, then, distinguishes today's society, 2020, from the society we had in 1980 or 1990? Is there anything in the composition of society that has changed? Are there more problems to work with today than 40 years ago? I think we have to have a reasonable proportion before we become as national romantic as Linus Sköld seems to be when he says: We once had, and when he dreams of, the equal and high-performance school system. It is clear that we all want as equal and high-performance a school system as possible. But the way there doesn't just mean saying it was better before. The way there is to pick some raisins, to change but also to meet and arrange the challenges and problems that we see today. The question is: Is there any change in society that may have contributed to this, more than the eternal nagging of profits in welfare? It seems to go like a mantra through the whole left-wing movement. For example, some subjects were classified in 1980 or 1990. But that idea is being crushed here. It doesn't apply. But if the school was so good in 1980 or 1990, wasn't one of the recipes you had to just tier students?
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-835	Mr President, I would like to Patrick Reslow wonders what has led to the inequality we have in the Swedish school system. It is actually based on two factors. One is increasing economic gaps in Swedish society. The second is a school system designed as a market. A market, Patrick Reslow, will always mean that the strong has advantages over the weak. It will always segregate. Patrick Reslow and the bloc he belongs to pursue an ideological, dogmatic line that individuals in competition with each other will perform better and that it will lead to a better society rather than if we all help each other. It is the basis for the inequality that we now see danger as a plague through our country, and it is also the basis for inequality in school. National romanticism, says Patrick Reslow. It's SD's parade branch. Members of this House are nodding. Yes, it is SD's parade branch, and general and special course in math, Swedish and English is an excellent example of when SD picks up something old that you can recognize, dreams of something amazingly good with this that may never have existed and puts forward this proposal completely without support in science. Let us use such things as were good with a system that was planned and built together, and let us reject those things that were not good in the same system. Doesn't that seem like a better way, Patrick Reslow?
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-839	Mr President, I would like to No, absolutely not! The Social Democratic road is not a good way to go. We have seen examples of this in history. It will not be good when the Social Democrats are to tamper with school policy. It is better that they stay as far away as possible. It worked well with a general and special course. This Linus Sköld himself has just stood and said here. It was so good – fantastic – in school 1980– 1990. It worked great then. Linus Sköld sees no problem whatsoever with students having difficulty keeping up with their teaching. As I have said several times before, the Social Democrats think that everyone should be made in the same form. It's a problem, we think with determination, if students can't keep up with the teaching. If they are thereby lagging behind and do not get the knowledge they need, that is a problem. It's the same problem if it's a class of many high-performance students who lose motivation because they think it's going too slow. We believe that it is better to group levels and make sure that you invest both in those who have problems and in those who are easy to do. I've heard Social Democrats say this before, so I get even more confused when Linus Sköld is now trying to make a big deal out of it. No, it is not something ideological or dogmatic on our part to propagate for independent schools. It's basically about us being for school elections. We think it is students and parents who should choose school, not Linus Sköld and his party colleagues. It's an important dividing line. Either you're for free choice, or you're not. I thank Linus Sköld for being so clear here and notifying all students and parents who are out in the school world and who want to choose school and take the one they like that they do not think they should. But that is what we think of Swedish democrats.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-844	Mr President, I would like to Students should be allowed to choose school, Patrick Reslow, but schools should not be allowed to choose students. That is what my main objection is to the system that we now have. Queue as a selection ground is extremely unfair. The freedom of establishment of free schools is a problem that allows free schools to establish themselves in areas where it is possible to target pupils who come from socially strong homes and who can reduce teacher density and make profits. It's a huge problem. Patrick Reslow can shake his head any time he wants. I have much bigger problems with the Swedish Democrats' school policy. Students who are lagging behind should of course have the effort to get back, keep up, be approved and feel the joy of growth. They should of course have access to special pedagogy and teachers who have the skills to meet their needs, but they should not be divided into how well they perform. Research shows that this does not lead to progress. Students should also not be kept – it also lacks research support. The fact that students are allowed to attend a grade does not lead to better results. The repressive school policy of the Swedish Democrats is about sorting kids. Now they want to sort them again according to students who perform well and students who do not perform well. From previous debates we remember that we also want to sort out students who are mischievous, who are going to other schools, and students who come from other countries, who are going to still other schools. This is the line of the Swedish Democrats – the sorting school. In the ordinary school, all students should be the same, and they should preferably also be dressed in school uniforms, if the Swedish Democrats are allowed to decide.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-847	Mr President, I would like to You're sitting all over the S-Bench wondering what I'm going to bring up here. I could not help but applaud when Mr Linus Sköld made his speech. He gave very good answers to the repressive and sorting policies of the Swedish Democrats. On the other hand, I'm a little surprised. It feels like in those times when the Social Democrats know that we will not be able to get rid of the free choice of schools or the pursuit of profits, i.e. when we do not have a majority for it in Parliament, the Social Democrats are tough and talk like any left-wing party. If we are to be honest, Linus Sköld's speech was as a speech from the Left Party's first May train about the Swedish school and the prize hunt there. One wonders why the Social Democrats, when they have had a majority with the help of the Left Party, the Green Party and so on or when there have been other majorities that have allowed us to get rid of the prize hunt, have never put forward a single proposal to remove it. During the last parliamentary term, we agreed with the Social Democrats that the question should be included, or rather, we put it as ultimatum to cooperate with them. Even then, the Social Democrats demanded that some of the profits be retained. I wonder: how is it that the Social Democrats always in times when they do not have a majority stand for a very good and radical line in terms of the pursuit of profit but that they have defended the pursuit of profit in all the times when we have had a majority?
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-852	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the opening kind words! I will do my best to take it as a compliment that my speech sounded like part of the First May celebration of the Left Party. The previous parliamentary term clearly shows how we stand in line with the line I delivered in my speech. It is worth mentioning that during the last parliamentary session of the last parliamentary term we presented two clear orientations, which were voted down by the parliamentary majority. This is what Daniel Riazat knows. Why he asked why we were opposed during the last parliamentary term is a mystery to me, because we actually tabled the proposals and they were voted down in the House. It was about the universal social composition of schools and classes, and it was about stopping the prize hunt. Daniel Riazat knows that we made the proposals. I honestly don't understand the question.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-855	Mr President, I would like to To begin with, I would like to say that this is not a tribute to the Moderates, who started this chaos. Return to Member Linus Sköld. Actually, I was talking about a much bigger perspective. From the reform of the free-school system and all the segregation reforms, introduced with the help of the Social Democrats among others, the Social Democrats have been quite constant defenders of our having this. There are many Social Democrats who still make profits from these schools today, so that is not so strange. When it comes to the question of the last parliamentary term, I will clarify. The Left Party called for budgetary cooperation with the Social Democrats to include the issue of welfare gains. It was an ultimatum and not exactly something that the Social Democrats agreed to on their own. We are pleased that we made the agreement, and we are pleased that the Reepalus investigation came about, although we would have liked no profits at all to be collected. The Social Democrats wanted some profits to be made, but we are still happy about what we did and about the Reepalus investigation. However, the question is why the tone is always rising when you know that you will not be able to get a majority on this issue and when you are sitting today in a government that cooperates with parties that want to do everything to strengthen the extreme school system that exists. You have also agreed with these parties not to touch the free schools, not to touch their profits and not to touch the free choice of school. Then it doesn't matter if you, Linus Sköld, come up with a proposal for universal social composition because it won't affect anything. That is not the basic problem. The whole problem of composition has been that we have created a marketing school, which Linus Sköld himself mentioned. So why do you not stand up for this when you have a majority on this issue?
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-859	Mr President, I would like to I thank Daniel Riazat for the question. I'm still not quite sure I understand. I think I stand up for this line very clearly today and have done so for as long as I have been in this House. Perhaps S-representatives have periodically thought that the liberalisation of the school system has been a good thing and that it would lead to greater efficiency or, for that matter, greater educational diversity, which was the aim from the outset. That way, perhaps Daniel Riazat has a point. But if we go back to the present, Daniel Riazat knows as well as I do that we need the broad cooperation in the middle of Swedish politics to keep authoritarian forces away from power. Part of this has been that we have promised not to put forward any proposals to limit profit draw in welfare. This is what Daniel Riazat knows, and I guess he just wants me to say it in public. That's how it is. The Social Democrats as a party are still making this position. I am a Socialist representative, and I defend the cooperation in the middle of Swedish politics because the purpose of this is to take responsibility for the country so that it can be governed. But I stand by the line of our party.
i-RgjK1oVzVvj9kRbtMB7Pxt	Mr President, I would like to One area that went under the radar during the speech of the Social Democrat Linus Sköld was the section on studies and security and the Liberals' questions about the Children's and Student Ombudsman. The other day we could read that a 15-year-old guy who had sent naked pictures to a girl at a school in the Stockholm area had been assisted and helped by the Children's and Student Ombudsman to pursue a claim for damages against the principal because he felt violated by the principal's informing and confronting the boy's parents. We have another matter, the so-called soffincident, where a teacher picked up a boy who had blocked a corridor at school in Lidköping Municipality. This boy who felt himself violated has reported this to the Children's and Student's Ombudsman, and this matter is currently at the highest level. There are also other cases where teachers who have been notified have received their notifications closed by the Teachers' Responsibilities Board, the Police Authority and the other School Inspectorate. However, the Children's and Student's Representative continues to pursue this type of claim for damages.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-865	Mr President, I would like to I thank Roger Haddad for the question. I shall begin by being so old-fashioned that I refer myself to show Roger Haddad that I actually touched on the issue of the school authorities. I said that the j anuari agreement stipulates that during the term of office the government will regionalise the school authorities, which will involve a major review of the authority. The allocation of responsibilities and supervisory tasks will, of course, also be the subject of this review. That is exactly what I said, which means that I have addressed the question of BEO. And I know very well that there are motions on this that are raised in the report. The representative of children and pupils will be dealt with in the framework of this review of the authority. And I know that Roger Haddad will have insight into this because the Liberals are part of the government base. It turned out not least last week when the Liberals were the ones who were allowed to bring the news to the public that the government is setting up an investigation to develop a national plan for security and study. It's a receipt that Roger Haddad and I work together when it comes to safety and study. The representative of children and students will of course be part of the government review, which Roger Haddad will be involved in.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-867	Mr President, I would like to Unlike the Social Democrats, the Liberals want to dismantle the Children's and Student's Ombudsmen. You want to keep the Children's and Student's representative. In the report on regionalisation of school authorities, there is more focus on how the Swedish National Agency for Education will work regionally and how the Swedish School Inspectorate will work nationally to review quality. I haven't seen a single sharp proposal linked to the Children's and Student's representative. It was not even included in the previous government's school administration review. Thankfully, that investigation was thrown into the trash basket because this investigation suggested that the School Inspectorate should be dismantled, which we strongly oppose. I want answers today from the Social Democrats: why do you want to retain a function that has completely undermined the position and authority of the teaching staff and has contributed to the fact that six out of ten teachers in the Swedish school do not dare intervene against messy students?
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-869	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad spoke of retaliation in his speech. But I'm not sure he used this very word. But he spoke of threats of complaints, or complaints that have no basis, as a major problem. He focuses on the Children's and Student's Ombudsmen and wants to abolish the Children's and Student's Ombudsmen as a result of these complaints. But the Swedish School Inspectorate has a huge number of exactly the same reports. But Roger Haddad wants to hug the School Inspectorate. He loves the school inspectorate. It's very strange. For one authority si, for the other authority so. But it's all about exactly the same problem. The increasing individual cases at the School Inspectorate are a consequence of the market system. The teachers' individual wage setting has damaged the teachers' authority and has damaged the collective in combination with shifting power relationships in the classroom related to the market. Roger Haddad's own school system moves power in the classroom from the authority of the teacher to the customer, that is, the student and the pupil's parents. It requires an inspection that serves as a general complaint board. When the customer is not satisfied, it either changes supplier or reports to the General Complaints Board. The over-notifications against which Roger Haddad opposes and the declining status of the teaching profession are a direct consequence of the market system that the Liberals have been leading in introducing in this country.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-872	Mr President, I would like to The overall goal of the school is to convey knowledge. The goal is for students, whether they are children, young people or adults, to gain knowledge in order to get a job and become self-sufficient. But knowledge also has another very important function that we must never blur. It is about education, that is, knowledge that contributes to the soul's development – that you grow as a person, that you get a stronger sense of the context in which you are in and what has shaped it and yourself. This also includes the values and knowledge of our history and culture, but also to be enriched by the cultures of others. Just now, I listened to Elisabet Åbjörnsson Hollmark, the new Director General of the State Department Board, at a seminar on young criminals. Her first point was precisely the school as the strongest protection against crime. We know that leaving school with approved grades is also the strongest protection factor against unemployment, mental illness and long-term illness, i.e. virtually all types of exclusion. But in order for young people – the students – to gain this vital knowledge, some basic things are needed. There is a need for competent teachers – educators – who are the most important occupational group for learners' learning. There are several challenges. Teachers need to be able to focus on teaching. More teachers and better teacher training are needed to provide teachers with the right tools to carry out their work. However, the student also needs support from home. Parents are by far the most important people for a child. Parents who involve themselves and care about their child's performance in school are incredibly important for their children's schooling – parents who support, follow up and interact with the school for the best. Mr President, I would like to If parents can be supported in their role as a parent, it can prevent both mental illness and social problems. It can therefore help parents to learn about the child's natural development phases of different ages of life. We also believe that parents should be supported in helping their children to meet school requirements. That is why we Christian Democrats are proposing an effort for all schools to involve parents more actively in the child's learning. The initiative includes special educational meetings for parents where school leaders will offer parents concrete tools to support their children. Experts and interpreters should be able to be involved if necessary. In connection with such meetings, there is also the opportunity to talk about the role of the school and the role of the parents and the family, and a form of parental contract can be established in which the different roles and responsibilities of the parents and the school are clarified. There will be the student's and the family's right to choose school. One must have the right to opt out of a school of poor quality, where the student may be bullied and not get the security and study that one has the right to expect. You have to have the right to choose a school where the student receives good education and where the student can develop according to his or her potential. The student who lives in a vulnerable area with a school where a large proportion of the students do not get approved results should not be tied to it but should be able to choose a school where there is a greater chance of success, but this requires that the parents and students are informed about the right to choose a school and about which schools they can choose. The municipality has a responsibility to inform and assist with material, in different languages, about the school elections and the schools available to choose from. In this context, I would also like to highlight the incredibly important role of the Swedish School Inspectorate in the review of schools, both municipal and independent. The Christian Democrats want to strengthen the School Inspectorate's ability to carry out more inspections, and unannounced inspections, in order to see if schools really comply with the curriculum and the school law. However, we also want to commission the Swedish School Inspectorate to highlight good examples and thus contribute to development around the country. You are around and you see how different schools work, and as it is today you only get to know what is wrong – not what is good. Mr President, I would like to We are concerned about the fact that children and young people are moving less and less. The sedentary posture affects bone density and muscle mass, but it also affects fitness and endurance. Worse fitness increases the risk of overweight, which is clearly related to impaired self-image and mental illness. The Bunkeflo School in Malmö has studied the effects of daily physical activity, and not only has the skeleton become stronger – the students' ability to concentrate and solve problems also improved, and thus the study results. Especially interesting is that boys' school results improved considerably more than girls'. Unfortunately, in today's school system, boys lag behind the girls, and there is a larger proportion of boys than girls who do not pass grades. However, among the pupils who received daily physical activity in Bunkeflo School, the results of both boys and girls were raised and the boys caught up with the girls. In our motion we in the Christian Democrats call for the number of sports hours to be increased from 600 to 700. Correspondingly, the student's choice should be reduced. This way we give the guys the opportunity to catch up with the girls and become really good at school while they get daily physical activity. I therefore expect all of you who want girls and boys to have equal chances in school to support our proposal. In anticipation of our proposal, individual schools can introduce daily physical activity, preferably by connecting with a local sports association that helps to activate pupils in breaks and hole hours. Mr President, I would like to Student health is another important function for us to be able to help students complete their studies. I've worked as a school nurse in the past, and I've experienced students who have had a hard time running school... who haven't done their homework, who haven't remembered to bring gym clothes and so on. When student health has been plugged in and we have been able to look at what is the basic problem for the student, it has not rarely been found to be about, for example, a substance abuse problem in the home. Then the student's whole world of thinking goes to thinking out strategies: What am I going to face when I get home-- is Dad drunk? Is Mom beaten up? It's not easy to concentrate on school then. It is therefore very important to have a sufficiently developed student health system that can manage to meet the students in the situation they find themselves in and that you have support from and collaboration with the social services. It is about finding ways to help the child, so that the child does not have to feel that responsibility for the family's well-being and woe lies on his or her own shoulders. Children often assume that responsibility. There is also, as someone else has been in here during the day, that students fall between the chairs – for example, between pupil health and child and adolescent psychiatry. Nor does it help to provide security for the student. The Christian Democrats find it unfortunate that today we have two different principals, that is, that pupil health is organised by the municipality, while health care is otherwise organised by the regions. We want to pool responsibility on a principal, and at the moment it is the regions that we believe the responsibility would be transferred to. Of course, the student care staff would continue to be in place in the schools. We also want to introduce a student health guarantee: As a student, you should be able to get in touch with student health on the same day. With the digital solutions available and with a comprehensive student organisation, this should be fully possible, not least given that the health care system otherwise manages a guarantee for visits on the same day. The overall goal of the school, Mr President, must be that as many students as possible should go through the school with a passing grade. It is totally unacceptable as it is today that a quarter of students leave school without a full grade. It is a disastrous failure, not least in view of what I said at the outset about the protective function of the school. A quarter of young people today do not get that protection. You can see a connection between teaching time and school results. In Sweden, students have fewer hours of teaching than the OECD average; it corresponds to approximately one week per school year during primary school, and yet the teacherless lessons have not been excluded. This is something we need to look at. The entry of Christian Democrats has long been that we need to increase teaching time so that we can at least get into the OECD section. However, it is important that students receive early support when you see that someone has difficulty reaching the goals. It is completely wrong that schools put in the most support efforts during the last year of primary schooling; the school needs to be more flexible and responsive. As I said, you should be able to deploy resources early, and it should not be wrong to take some children aside when needed in specific teaching groups. It would also benefit those students who may need a little special stimulus in order not to lose their appetite and interest. We Christian Democrats want to build a school where every student has the opportunity to develop according to their potential. We do not want anyone to be left behind or anyone to be held back. This also applies to children from national minorities. Just now, a seminar was held here in Parliament on this theme. Sweden has a lot to work on here to be able to live up to the commitments that exist towards the national minorities. We can hope that new rules on remote and distance learning will be able to improve these conditions. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to endorse all the proposals made by the Christian Democrats in committee and party movements. However, as our proposals are prepared in a simplistic way, I am abstaining from applications but I am referring to our specific opinion.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-893	Mr President, I would like to I note that Gudrun Brunegård expresses roughly the same view as in a motion request from the Moderates in this report that it should reorganise pupil health and move it to the region, if I understand Gudrun Brunegård correctly. I would like to know more about how the Christian Democrats think this will work. From my horizon, student health's mission is to work preventively and to take promotion measures. It's about us having a health-promoting school that the students feel good about going to. Then the student health care, as I understand it, needs to be close to that business. Perhaps the student health needs to be present in that activity and be involved in the planning of the structures of that activity – not as a remedy when something has already gone wrong, but in order to be able to take part in planning how the school should include all children and how the school should be health-promoting from a physical and psychosocial point of view. I think that things like balance between diet and exercise and things like good and trusting relationships are the absolutely necessary keys for people to feel good. If these are to be incorporated into school activities, student health needs to be close to that activity – even in that activity. How would we benefit from raising student health from this activity and further away, to the residence city or to the nearest place where the region is located?
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-898	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Linus Sköld, for the question! It is very interesting that we should talk a little more about this issue, because it is a very important question. As I said in my speech, student health should of course still be in place at school – in each school where school activities are conducted. It shall be there as a well-functioning and integrated part. However, it has its head in the region, and it also has the opportunity to work together without the need to create headage limits on matters relating to the individual pupil. There is quite a lot of experience from student health personnel who feel that the municipality as an employer does not understand what work in student health means. For example, you do not get the training you need, and you may not have the tools to do your job. We believe that the region is a much better organiser of this. One should of course have a very close cooperation with the municipality. You should see that this is something that is done together. There are many other forms of collaboration where you work locally close to each other – the family centres are such a model. In some places there are also children's and young people's health, where employees of different employers work in the same premises. I think that student health would gain a great deal from this being lifted up in this way.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-902	Mr President, I would like to I think students' health will benefit if we invest in student health. I believe that students' health benefits are the fact that we are investing in equal pupil health and that with the new investigation directives we can achieve a minimum level of decency for what it means to have access to pupil health for every student in our country. That's what I think we're going to win. I think we will gain from having close collaboration between the school – as in teaching staff – and student health, including special pedagogic skills, social skills and psychologist, doctor and school nurse. I think we will benefit from this cooperation. Of course, we also benefit from a good collaboration between school, student health and child and youth psychiatry, or for that matter the social care of children and young people in social services. Of course, these collaborative processes will be better and closer, and we need to make efforts to do that. But I still don't understand how the quality of the student health that students face daily would be better if the head of the school nurse or the school counselor were to sit in the county hall instead of in the municipal building or even at the school, organized under the headmaster. Gudrun Brunegård will be happy to develop that.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-906	Mr President, I would like to Students' health has a very important role to play in preventive work and – just as Linus Sköld said in his first post – in talking about diet, health, exercise, physical activity, having healthy lifestyles, sleeping at night and so on. You can do that even if you have someone else who pays the salary; it doesn't matter whether the person who pays the salary is in the city of residence or anywhere else. However, we must have a good organisation, and I am absolutely convinced that this can be achieved. During the last term of office, when I was in SKL's primary care preparation, there was a very broad consensus that this – transferring the headship and having a common headship for all health care – would be an important reform in order to improve pupil health. Today it is divided. Health care for small children – up to the age of six – is provided by the county council. Then it is the municipality's pupil health care that is responsible for the preventive parts that are directly linked to the school for nine to twelve years. However, all other health care is still carried out by the county council, or the region, and then it is the region that manages it all when they leave school. This means a hatiness and a lack of continuity for the student. A single head of student health care would be beneficial, and this does not prevent you from still being in school and working closely with the school staff.
i-715ca9c64536f4a3-910	Madam President, I would like Every child has the right to develop as far as possible. The most successful school systems in the world are those that are equal. It is a school system where children in need of special support get it early, preferably before they themselves understand that writing, counting and reading could have become a problem. These are some of the conclusions that have guided the Green Party's school policy and which now continue to form the basis of government policy and the cooperation on school issues that we have within the framework of the January agreement with the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals. On this basis, we are now working on the School Commission's proposal of, among other things, 6 billion more to school for greater equivalence. It is money that gives more to all schools and most to those who have the greatest need. We continue to provide teachers and those who already work in school with increased knowledge about neuropsychiatric disabilities. We also work for better conditions for resource schools and better opportunities to give more time for teaching to those students who need it in order to be eligible for upper secondary school. In order to early discover who needs special support, we have introduced the read-write-count guarantee. It is continuously evaluated so that we really implement it in practice. It is not that we have not previously written legal text that says that students should receive support as soon as it becomes clear that they need it. But now we have a system in place that really makes you go through the students early and put in action. In the January agreement, we also agree to improve the opportunities for children with special talents so that they can develop longer and faster. We are working on legislative proposals on minimum requirements for student health. It is central at a time when we see an increase in mental illness among young people, especially girls. By reviewing the rating system, we can prevent some of the mental ill health that comes from the pressure that the rating system is perceived to give, where the worst performance has an unreasonable impact and where a bad test day can actually be experienced affecting the chances for the rest of life. Other issues that will have a crucial role to play in combating inequality in schools are those that I hope will be presented by the study for an equal school. I hope that we can get thought-out and scientifically-based proposals that we in this House can agree on widely in order to get a fair school election in place for everyone. We need a system that counteracts rather than reinforces the effects of today's major housing segregation. I also look forward to continuing, together with the other parties in the January agreement, the discussions on the State's responsibility for the school's equal funding. Madam President, I would like The topic of the day is overall school issues. A central question is how we ensure that children and students are not subjected to violations in school. When I was ten years old I sat with a white A4 paper and ink pens in several different colors. I wrote myself a letter as an adult. I had no idea then that I would be a spokesperson on school issues for a parliamentary party. But I wrote to the adult Annika who I wanted to remember that the most important question there and then was to work against bullying. I had seen the adults standing on the schoolyard looking at the children but did not see the obvious: the lonely girl with foreign background who was systematically harassed on breaks. I sat with the principal. We tried to get through, and we talked to the teachers. I wanted to remind the adult I would one day be not to forget how important this is. Bullying can ruin children's schooling, and how schooling is largely defines what life as a child is. Children must be in school, and even if we say that we have a free choice of school, it is not the reality of ten-year-olds when they get up Monday morning, especially those who are being bullied. Today we have discussed one of the bodies that takes advantage of children's right not to be violated. When the Vice-Chancellor, the municipality or the independent principal does not understand and do not take action, the Children's and Student's Representative must perform supervision and take care of the children's rights. In fact, the Children's and Student's Representative is one of the most effective bodies to carry out this type of task. We can compare with the Discrimination Ombudsman, who chooses to only pursue cases of principle. The representative of children and pupils takes advantage of every child's right, and that is important. It is a strength that you have made it easy to report and that there are therefore many who dare to turn there. At the same time, there are challenges when teachers do not dare to maintain order and study in the classroom. Of course, we need to discuss how we can get the best possible system in place. But we must remember that it is incredibly important and valuable that there is a body that will always stand on the children's side and that it is easy to turn to when the adults who should listen do not hear. I am a little worried that in the debate we are making the Children's and Student's Ombudsman a scapegoat for a really much bigger system error – a system error that is about schools being afraid of getting rid of students because we have put a student money per head together with a profit interest. When we met the Swedish School Leaders' Association at the beginning of our term, they told us that threats and hatred from parents about, among other things, higher grades, extra support or other measures is one of the three biggest challenges that Vice-Chancellors face today. It's a huge problem. I am afraid that it is we who have put this school system in place that is based on a market with a profit-making interest and where the consequence of a loss of one student from one day to another is about six-digit amounts. We need to think about this in depth, and it is a bigger question than we have made it today. Madam President, I would like The Green Party has an ambitious agenda for a more equal school that is now being implemented by the government in the framework of the January agreement, and there is so much to talk about when it comes to overall school issues. Since we are implementing our policy in the framework of intergovernmental cooperation, I support the proposal of the Committee on Education and Training.
