i-c34cad7256ebee42-3	Madam President, I would like Today, in Coronatimes, we still have to deal with this report. In a way, albeit in a limited form, the report has a connection with the time we are living in right now because more people are buying online than before and the economy is uncertain. Today, consumer loans are extremely easily accessible. Without evaluating this, I think it is reasonable that, in the case of online shopping, it should not be the preferred option or pre-selection, which this proposal aims to address. The assessment from several quarters is that consumer loans do not threaten financial stability. However, when a household receives reduced income, high consumption loans risk threatening the household's financial stability. It can bear in mind these days when both the global and the Swedish economy are characterised by great uncertainty and a very serious economic situation. As legislators, we must take a stand to protect the individual consumer. Should you trade on credit, yes, then it should be clear and an active choice. I support the committee's proposal.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-7	Madam President, I would like Thanks to all members of Parliament and officials who work from home and ensure that we can continue to get legislative proposals through the Swedish Parliament! It is important and also guarantees the quorum of the Riksdag throughout this crisis. It's well worth saying. The bill that now comes from the government is good and strengthens consumer protection when it comes to e-commerce. However, we Moderates saw two risks with the bill, which is why we put in an additional motion to evaluate the legislation relatively quickly. One is that, now that we are doing the way the bill proposes, i.e. that credit purchases should not be the preferred option, there is one way to get around that legislation: simply to offer only credit purchases. It would be unfortunate if this were to happen, and that is why we believe that this risk should be assessed. The second is that the risk of fraud increases when you shop online and pay before you get the product. These two things we now agree in committee that we should evaluate. Hopefully the legislation will be good in this area, but we have the little thing with us to ensure that. Otherwise, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal before us.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-11	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. The Swedish parliament and the Swedish government are, of course, now focusing on minimising the harmful effects of the coronavirus on both people and the economy in Sweden. Nevertheless, I would like to mention a few words about the report on labour law that we are now debating, Madam President, and briefly outline the overall moderate approaches. In particular, we have four reflections on the necessary change in labour law in Sweden. Firstly, Madam President, there are safe and secure jobs only in safe and secure businesses. That was true yesterday, it is definitely twice as true today and it will be as true tomorrow. It is important to carry that very entrance, especially on the basis of the discussions that we are now seeing. The consequences of the Corona virus for people and for health have, to put it mildly, extremely tangible consequences for the labour market, for people's jobs and for entire industries in Sweden. Again: Safe, secure jobs only exist in safe, secure companies. Secondly, the Swedish labour market has challenges. It had challenges even before the extreme challenges that we now see as a result of the Corona virus. These are challenges that involve a sluggish labour market where the transition is very poor and where we also have legislation that largely excludes large groups from the labour market – from those who are very far removed from the labour market and those who have never really been in the labour market at all to the long-term unemployed, young people and new arrivals. We also see a bias in the balance of the labour market, and that is also part of the issues dealt with in this motion report. We need to recognise the challenges we have in the Swedish labour market. Thirdly, what needs to be done? We need safe, secure and growing companies, Madam President, as well as we need safe, secure workers who see increased labour market mobility as a way to increase opportunities. But one should also be able to be safe and sure that one cannot get rid of the job on unclear, incorrect or arbitrary grounds. It must be clear. Fourthly and lastly, I can see that there is now quite a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament that we need to change labour law across the board. That's good. We will undoubtedly have to have many and rather difficult debates on how we can deal jointly across party and block borders with the situation on which we are now focusing. However, the discussion on labour law cannot stop there, but we must jointly ensure that we have as broad a consensus as possible in the Swedish Parliament on making changes to secure employees and entrepreneurs and the necessary balance on the Swedish labour market. So and just like that, Madam President, we get a society and a country that stays together.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-22	Madam President, I would like We are here today to debate labour law, and we can see that today we do not know how much of the policy in this area will look in the future. This is partly due to the fact that much is being dealt with in the January agreement and, as everyone knows, most of it is under investigation. We do not yet know what, for example, the proposals on LAS will look like. This is happening at the same time as we do not know what the Swedish labour market will look like after the huge crisis we are going through, because the consequences of it will have a major impact on labour law issues, as reform work is naturally affected. Madam President, I would like The greatest priority in the future must be to protect Swedish employees and their employment, and it will be vital for our entire Swedish welfare society. Huge resources will have to be spent on business and business creation, and entire industries may need to be re-initiated. The rules on posting and labour migration need to be tightened up even more. Opening up to a more generous regulatory framework will threaten Swedish jobs and then automatically Swedish tax revenues in a coming recession. Madam President, I would like I will not prolong the debate, but we can all note in this House that the Swedish labour market is facing enormous challenges in the future. There are many issues, new and old, that we will have to come back to because we can now only speculate on what the consequences will be for society, Swedish companies and Swedish employees. Madam President, I would like I choose to close there and I call for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 15.
i-Vv68V5fYNNyRAxStwBGXMG	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 5. Madam President, I would like The pandemic that is now rampant around the globe is also putting great strain on our country. Over the last few weeks, we have seen what people's jointly organised work really means. That is what constitutes the very foundation of social life, that which is the source of wealth and well-being, and that which enables us to live our lives for better or for worse. During the global crisis, we have hopefully also been able to see how closely our lives are interwoven and how dependent our society is on as many as possible doing the best they can. It is not often those who work in the dark, those who take responsibility without previous titles, pomp and glory, often with wages and working conditions that hardly give them room for luxury and spotlight, who make the greatest effort and who have always done so. The report we are debating today is called Employment Law in short. I have had the privilege of standing in this speaker's chair for a number of years at about this time of year and pointing out that people's rights at work, including those regulated by labour law, play a major role in the way our society looks and how it develops. This year, in the light of the current crisis, these remarks should really be superfluous. When people in our country today think about how we should live when we have been able to face the effects of the pandemic on life and health, the issue of work is probably high on most of the lists. Let me be clear about something, namely that the effects of the crisis to date will already have a negative impact on the labour market for some time to come. Meeting them requires a wise policy that ensures that together we can insure income, ensure that we invest where needs and opportunities exist, and ensure that functioning companies and businesses are protected from going down where possible. But we will also have to ensure that all those who do the job in the country are not forced to take the full blow by being exposed to contentious arbitrariness and disproportionate concern. Then we must have a strong and well-functioning labour law. Madam President, I would like Conversions are a part of life. After this crisis, our society's capacity for transition will be tested harder than it has been for a long time. Of course, it is easier for the country's employees to deal with this change, even when it involves difficulties and sacrifices, the more it is characterised by cohesion and justice. There, the issues dealt with in today's report play an important role. Our model of society offers far-reaching opportunities for employers, as it is said, to lead and distribute their work and to hire and lay off staff. This is something that is seen as an extension of ownership. At the same time, it has been realized in all societies that something is injuring to pull out that reasoning all the way. Buying someone's labor cannot be seen as quite like buying, for example, a bicycle or fruit. There are, therefore, rules that set limits in certain respects on how this can be done. What in Sweden is called the Employment Protection Act, LAS, brings together some of those rules. In a fundamental hierarchical relationship, the law must provide some protection against abuse and arbitrariness. The actual design of this protection is very flexible in Sweden, more than in most industrialized countries. This is because our legislation in this area is essentially disproved, i.e. that it only applies if otherwise agreed, in this case between employers and workers' organisations. This is a major feature of most aspects of the labour market in Sweden. In recent weeks, Madam President, we have seen great efforts by trade unions to take on significant responsibilities and to be extremely flexible with their counterparts. This is the difficulty both in managing a contractual movement in this situation and in finding solutions, together with the state, for layoffs and other urgent actions. This can be done because there are elaborate relationships and systems for managing an inherent conflict relationship, and these are things that require knowledge and trust in the counterparty. This, Madam President, is in stark contrast with the handling of labour law and LAS by government and cooperation parties. In January last year, a hafsverk was produced that has since been cramped to hold on to. Based on this, an investigation has been set up with deeply problematic directives, such as the trade union movement in Sweden, those who organize and represent the people who actually support society, collectively shake their heads. It is an investigation that will come up with its proposals at the end of spring. We do not know exactly what will be proposed, but we have heard the investigator at the meeting of the Employment Committee, and we know that he seems to be sticking closely to the directives. Some suggestions have also been aerated, or leaked, difficult to know which, for example, the newspaper Work. It is only to be noted that, if the final report is even close to those proposals, it will be proposals which effectively abolish the protection afforded to most people in the Swedish labour market by the Employment Protection Act. That is, of course, both irresponsible and unacceptable. Then, at the same time, on the side of the January parties, we have said that the parties will have to negotiate well, so perhaps they will resolve this on their own. Yes, the parties are always negotiating everything possible, but in this case the state wants the trade unions to carry out the extensive negotiations with the threat of a frontal attack by the state hanging over them. This is, of course, both unacceptable and irresponsible. I think most people understand that the Corona crisis has created an extraordinary situation in Sweden, and it requires extraordinary efforts from many of society's supporting institutions. In this situation, it is even clearer that there is a single responsible and reasonable line of action on the issue for the government and for the other two parties that have ordered and forced this unfortunate LAS investigation, namely to thank you kindly for the work of the investigation and then carefully place the results in the trash instead of trying to deal with the many societal problems that follow in the wake of the crisis. Let the great desire for solidarity and flexibility shown by trade union organisations guide the work ahead, not the hugs that have been fixed in the January agreement. Madam President, I would like I had intended to devote part of my speech to highlighting several of the proposals contained in the report by the bourgeois parties. I am abstaining from it today, although I believe that it is important for all those who care about labour market issues to see how far-reaching proposals have been added to Parliament's treatment, not just as thought experiments and moves. I would like to mention quite briefly just a few of the many proposals that we in the Left Party have put forward in our motions to adapt labour law to today's labour market and solve the problems facing many workers. They deal in different ways with the problems of precarious employment that create a destructive insecurity in people's entire life situation, especially when they go on over time. After all, in recent weeks we have been further aware of the long-term consequences this may have. It has become clear that tens of thousands of people's income can only disappear overnight without their bills and financial commitments. One important change that would be needed is to remove the form of employment called general fixed-term employment. It is, of course, the case that fixed-term employment, fixed-term employment, performs a necessary function in the labour market. You have to be able to take in sub-contractors, have extra staff at temporary gatherings and have special appointments for a defined extra task or project. But permanent employment must be the norm, and deviations from the norm must be negotiated in collective agreements according to the flexible Swedish model. We also want to tighten up and clarify the limit on how long you can be employed by an employer on a fixed-term basis before the employment is transferred to an open-ended employment. Another problem area where we have proposed amendments is what has come to be called planing. These are situations in which the employer, without going through any dismissal procedure, suddenly reduces the employment rate of the employees. For example, they go from full - time to half - time, losing half their salary. I mention these two proposals in particular, both because they are important and because they highlight recurring problems in the labour market and because they are examples of proposals that I believe many who voted for the larger of the government parties have expected action to be taken. Unfortunately, it is quite far from what has been delivered so far and what is in the January agreement. Madam President, I would like During the current Corona crisis, the government has, in my view, so far demonstrated admirable capacity for action and maturity. This has to a large extent been done by relying on the impulse to take advantage of what is good in Sweden and fix things that do not work well. It would be very welcome if this spirit could be transmitted to the continuing work in the areas of labour law. In that case, it would require putting the January agreement if not in the trash bin so at least further back in the drawer to concentrate instead on the actual problems and challenges facing the workers and job seekers in Sweden. At least we in the Left Party will continue to do so.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-48	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have a great deal of reservations in this report, but I choose to apply only for reservation 10. Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with motions in the area of labour law. These are exercises that we have left during the autumn exercise time. Although today's debate is about an area that may not be at the top of the political agenda, it is important that we continue the work of the Riksdag and show the Swedish people that we have a parliament that can continue to make important and necessary decisions even in times like these. Madam President, I would like The pandemic with covid-19 draws from country to country, and Europe has been hit very seriously. Sweden now has a very big challenge in saving lives and health. It is important for us to be able to take decisions that deal with the crisis and ensure that health care, in particular, works. Many people are currently working hard in health care and care for the elderly, protecting people with disabilities and so on. It is extremely important that they receive all our support. It is also important for us to be able to decide on the emergency package needed to quickly counter the economic disaster that affects many of our companies and their employees in the wake of the pandemic. Many jobs are at stake, and many feel anxious and despair – both employers and workers. We can try, with political proposals, to alleviate the crisis, but unfortunately many will still suffer from redundancies and unemployment. We Christian Democrats have come up with several proposals that we believe can save jobs. We do not believe that the Government's proposals have been sufficient, but we believe that in order to save, above all, small businesses and their employees, we will have to do more. The Committee on Finance will deal with our proposals in the near future. Madam President, I would like Labour law plays an important role in the Swedish labour market, perhaps especially in times like these. It regulates employment relationships and clarifies the responsibilities of both employers and employees. The Swedish model, which we are now fighting for within the EU, has given the parties relatively much freedom to make their own decisions on the basis of semi-dispositive legislation with collective agreements governing employment relationships. But times have changed and so have working conditions. Competition from the outside world means an increasing need for flexibility in the labour market. On a regular basis, many factories employ a number of temporary agency workers in order to be able to have flexibility for the variation of orders. The service sector is growing, and many work flexibly on the basis of assignments. There is therefore a great need for flexibility. We do not believe that this will change significantly in the future, following this crisis. However, it is important to ensure that security systems work when the crisis comes, including by more people joining an unemployment fund. That is why, Madam President, we were already discussing last autumn what we should invest in in our shadow budget. We put in a right to partially deduct the tax return in order to join the unemployment fund. I think it is very important to encourage people to join the unemployment fund, because on the day something happens, it is needed as a protection. We Christian Democrats believe that those who have had the most difficulty entering the labour market will now have it even more difficult. This applies in particular to the group of new arrivals. For a long time, we have chosen to advocate forms of employment that could give these people a chance to enter the labour market. Our proposals for admission jobs, where during a training period you receive lower remuneration until you are established in the profession, are one way. Now the social partners have put forward an alternative proposal on so-called start-up jobs. We are cautiously in favour of these, although we note that referrals raised questions about the risks of fraud in the system. We hope that the government has taken sufficient measures to prevent this, but we will follow this reform closely. Madam President, I would like As far as our reservation on more flexible rules and new forms of employment is concerned, the response of the majority is that there will be an inquiry in the spring to present proposals in this area, particularly as regards the rules of rotation. We believe that it is important for companies in different economic situations to be able to adapt their business in order to meet the requirements of competition in the outside world. Then they must also be able to reset and retain key persons. Otherwise, there is the risk of what we often hear about from entrepreneurs – that they are afraid to hire even though they need staff. It's a balancing act. We Christian Democrats have proposed that the exemptions from the rotation rules of the Employment Protection Act should be extended from two to four people, regardless of the size of the company. If it is true that there are leaks from the investigation that there may be more that may be excluded, we welcome that. But there will probably have to be a thorough review of labour law based on the scenarios we are now looking at around a pandemic. It would be useful for the parties to include this in the discussion as well. Madam President, I would like The Postings Act has been debated a large number of times in this House. Ensuring good conditions for those from other EU countries who come to Sweden and work is a matter of course. It will, of course, create problems at this time, but we know that freedom of movement will continue to apply within the European Union. That's why we need to have rules on it. The current government has amended the Posting of Workers Act developed by the Alliance. We think that the law went a little too much towards protectionism and less towards caring for those who come here to work. This is contrary to the principles of EU law, and it makes it difficult for postings despite the fact that many companies needed workers from the rest of Europe. The law council also questioned when the government made changes in 2017 why it did not first evaluate the lex Laval law that came during the alliance years. Right now we are waiting for the government to come up with a new proposal on posting. We will then come back with further positions on this issue. Madam President, I would like Finally, it is a serious time now. I will therefore choose not to go into polemics with the government parties today. The debate on labour law will come back.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-66	Madam President, I would like Like many speakers before me, I would also like to begin by emphasising the very difficult situation that Sweden and the whole world are in right now. This crisis is unprecedented in our modern history. It is not provoked by poor public finances, housing bubbles that have cracked, banking crises or the many structural problems that otherwise surround the Swedish labour market and which today's report deals with. Madam President, I would like It is the Corona virus that has paralysed the whole world – a virus that erupted in the multimillion-dollar city of Wuhan in China at the beginning of the year but has spread like wildfire all over the world, and now the World Health Organization has chosen to classify it as a global epidemic. Up to now, hundreds of thousands of people have been infected worldwide, and death rates are increasing every day. Unfortunately, the rate of infection will continue to increase. Unfortunately, more people will get sick and die before this epidemic is over. My thoughts go to all those affected in this very difficult time, to all those who have lost a husband or wife, a mother or father, a grandfather or grandfather, a daughter or son or a dear friend. You can't imagine the grief that a lot of people are going through right now. Madam President, I would like In this very serious situation, we must be able to keep several thoughts in our heads at the same time. We must do everything we can to reduce the spread of infection, ensure the availability of protective equipment, strengthen intensive care, ensure that our vital functions work and save human lives. But we also need to act urgently to save businesses from going bankrupt and protecting jobs with powerful support packages. We need to do this to prevent mass unemployment and for people to have a job to go back to when this pandemic is over. Madam President, I would like Much has been done so far in a short time, but a great deal remains to be done. Last week the government, together with us, presented support parties, the Liberals and the Center Party, several crisis packages to slow down the development we are now seeing. But I repeat: more crisis packages will come, and far more measures will have to be taken to save businesses and protect jobs. At this very moment, intensive negotiations are also taking place between the government and the support parties in order for more emergency packages to be presented immediately. This time, support must be given, above all, to small and family-owned companies, whose owners are currently in danger of having their lives destroyed. We must prevent this to the best of our ability. Madam President, I would like If we are to get through this crisis, national gatherings are required. We need to put aside our quarrels and jointly take political responsibility. So far, eight parties have managed to show that we are capable of taking joint responsibility when the crisis demands it, and I am proud of that. I hope we can continue in that spirit. I promise that the day will come when we will evaluate the work of the crisis, question some of the efforts and express criticism of what has not worked. But we're not there yet. At the same time as politics and our authorities assume their responsibilities, our citizens must also do their civic duty and listen to the sharp recommendations of our expert authorities if we are to stop the spread of the disease. Never have the calls to keep our hands clean, stay home if we are sick, work from home if we can, avoid social gatherings, keep our distance when we move out, refrain from skiing to the mountains and think about our elderly and other risk groups been as important as they are now. Therefore, I humbly urge all of you who might listen or watch this debate to listen to the recommendations of our authorities. Right now, the fight against the Corona virus is about saving lives. In addition to the issues of human capital and the deep decline of our business community, we have also seen how precarious our security systems are and that they are not dimensioned to cope with this type of crisis. If we are to prevent hundreds of thousands of people from stepping straight into a life of exclusion and unemployment, we must do what this challenge requires of us. Today, a majority of the Swedish unemployed are not covered by unemployment insurance. This weakens the security of the transition and will have devastating consequences if we are not prepared to do anything about it. The fact that the unemployment fund does not cover everyone is a major structural problem that needs to be resolved. Compensation in the event of unemployment is one of the most effective incentives in a crisis economy, while at the same time it is essential for families not to lose their homes and homes. On the Liberal side, we have always argued that the answer is a compulsory unemployment fund. This is not the time for political conflicts now, but we will have to come back to this issue. Madam President, I would like This crisis also testifies to the fact that we will have to change our labour market policies. We will have to make changes to labour law in order to create more flexibility and strengthen our security systems to cover both workers and all small self-employed workers who are currently excluded. Unfortunately, the Left Party will also need to be aware of this. We will need to create more easy ways to create jobs without entry requirements so that all those outside will have a chance to get into work and all those who are now at risk of becoming unemployed will be able to retrain quickly and be matchable for new jobs. The companies are going through a steel bath right now. In order for them to be able to be a growth engine in the Swedish economy in the future, politics must take responsibility for the dismantling of outdated laws, the simplification of regulations and it will be cheaper and easier for companies to hire in the future. All of this will have to come back to us, but right now the fight must be about combating the Corona virus and reducing the spread of infection, saving human lives, saving businesses, protecting jobs and ensuring that those who become unemployed have a safe transition. This must be the overall objective of policy at the moment. We will have to come back to everything else at a later date. With this, I would like to endorse the Liberals' reservation 22 in the report.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-84	Madam President, I would like When we debate the Committee on Employment's motion for a resolution AU8, which deals with labour law and nothing else, it happens in a very special situation. We read about notice every day. I have almost daily contact with desperate entrepreneurs and employees who are desperate and worried about their future. All of this is, of course, due to the consequences of the Corona virus. Society changes from day to day, and you barely have time. It feels like two weeks ago the reality is something you talk about with the same nostalgia that was 15 years ago. To then stand in Parliament's Chamber and discuss proposals that were written at the beginning of autumn 2019, long before we had any idea what reality we would be in today, is not simply. All proposals are written on the basis of the reality that prevailed then, and frankly, it feels like a whole epoch ago. The first economically affected by the consequences of the Corona virus were those who worked in the hotel and restaurant industry and in the retail sector. Employees who are already in difficult situations with precarious employment, low wages and part-time work are the first and hardest hit in a crisis such as this. Those who need the most support and security from society in a crisis situation are the hardest hit. From this perspective, I can agree that we need to review employment protection, so that it includes more – more people who have access to society's support when there is a crisis. At this point in time, defending why we do not want to agree to further deteriorations in employment security, as there are a number of motions in this report, seems unreasonable, whether it is a case of extended probationary contracts or a further relaxation of LAS or other matters. It should be self-evident. We in Sweden are not only dependent on our companies – we are equally dependent on the employees in the companies. If we are to get this country back on its feet after this crisis, we need to secure companies with secure employees. Insecure employment creates precarious people. It benefits no one in our society. Nor does it benefit a living democracy. In the immediate crisis that we are in now, we also clearly see the advantage of a strong partnership model and the importance of collective agreements in the labour market. We see how quickly and effectively the social partners are now signing agreements on short-term lay-offs on an ongoing basis to prevent large redundancies and abuse of key skills in companies. The parties take responsibility for Sweden's companies to be able to restart quickly once the crisis is over, perhaps even stronger than they were before, if they now choose to use part of the short-term lay-off for competence development for the staff. I hope that everyone can see the strength of the Swedish model when we are on the other side of this crisis, which we are still just about to enter. I will mention just a few points in the report. One section deals with posted workers. Here I can see that there are several claims to reintroduce lex Laval, and one main argument for this is that it would now be less attractive for foreign companies to come to Sweden and do work. But what we are actually seeing is the opposite: the proportion of posted workers continues to increase year by year. The seconded persons were over 40,000 in 2019. Of course, I want the posted labour force also to have good working conditions and that order and order should apply to the Swedish labour market, to the employees but also to the companies and for the sake of competition. Then, as we see it, there is no reason to reintroduce lex Laval. Rather, it should be ensured that more of the seconded workers are covered by collective agreements and that there are more and more checks on those places of work. I am well aware that there are many thoughts about the January agreement negotiated by the four parties, not least on these issues. All those of you who are still sceptical about the agreement, I would ask you to read the report we are debating today. I think that basically there is a motion report with 340 or 360 pages, where you can read what all parties think about labour law. If we had not had a January agreement, those proposals could well have become a reality. These are major changes in LAS, not just the order of order. It's about lex Laval. These are statutory minimum wages for some and restrictions on the right to strike, among other things. All these elements together would completely destroy the balance of the labour market. It is precisely that balance, which today turns out to be so effective and strong when the country is in a crisis, that we must safeguard. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all motions.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-98	Madam President, I would like I would first like to express my concern that I entered the debate later than planned, but the corona virus sometimes creates logistical challenges in everyday life, not only in the big but also in the small, not least for us parents of young children. Let me begin with what is inevitable when you stand in the speaker's chair during this time, namely to thank, as many other speakers have done, all those who are fighting today in health care and school, those who are cleaning the areas that need to be disease-free, those who are sitting in the register and those who are maintaining socially important functions that allow us to keep going despite the Corona crisis. I think that all of us in this House would like to thank all these heroic people who are currently making the country better prepared for the crisis that is going on and waiting. Like others, I would also like to turn to those who are anxious and have relatives who have been infected. I would like to express this sympathy to them, because ultimately, as many have pointed out, this is not an economic or labour market crisis, but a health and human crisis that we should all take part in combating. However, this is also a deep economic and labour market crisis. I would now just like to say a few words about labour law, because I do not think this is an opportunity for polemics, and mention the great challenge that is now present in the labour market. The grain rises extremely steeply. It will be approaching 20 000 notice in March, and this is therefore in line with the worst crises we have had. There are three important objectives for the labour market at this stage which I know the government is working very hard on and on which there is also a great deal of agreement in this House. The first is that as many people as possible should be able to remain in work during this deep crisis. By not going bankrupt, receiving support with liquidity and other forms of support, and by reducing costs, companies can retain as many employees as possible until the crisis is over. The second is that those who are still losing their jobs are now given the greatest opportunity to re-train to the professions that are now open and where there are great needs in regions and municipalities. The third is that we take the opportunity to do a kind of digital, national competence boost where as many as possible, without too much consideration of the conditions we had before, get the chance to competence lift, train and use this time when they may be short-term laid-off or unemployed to strengthen themselves, equip themselves and educate themselves. Let me say a few words about today's debate on labour law. There will be a time when the situation on the labour market will change. I think that most people in this House realise that it is then very important that small businesses, which have been hit hard, have the chance to hire again and that they have the courage to do so. Then it is important that we have a flexible labour market, that you hire as many people as possible and that you take the chance even though these are tough times. It is important that we are not exposed to disproportionate combat measures and that we do not fall back into square situations that we have had in the past without giving small businesses a chance to get back as far as possible. The third is also very important, considering that posting is part of this debate: that it is possible to maintain the internal market in the EU with opportunities for foreign companies to act in Sweden and for Swedish companies to act in other countries. The secondment is in both directions. This will enable the EU's internal market to be restored.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-109	Madam President, I would like Consumer issues concern us all. Last week we had a debate around a consumer report where we talked about both what is good and what needs to be improved in order for a consumer to have strong protection. This applies both nationally and internationally. With increased protection, the flow of information and the information that both consumers and businesses need to provide and absorb will also increase. The world is changing. Today we are buying more and more digital – and at this point we may be shopping even more digitally than we would have otherwise – from Sweden, the EU and third countries, which means that the information issues that I am dealing with will increase. What about the right of complaint, the right to repurchase, the right to freight and the right to exchange? When does the product pass into the consumer's possession, and which country's legislation applies? At the same time as we consumers are becoming more and more international, we want to get more information when buying. We want to know from producers and sellers what the product contains and what applies with different labels. As information requirements increase, information becomes more and more inaccessible. Madam President, I would like Today's proposals are based on the EU directives, which we are going to implement. They clarify what rules apply to the various things I have just listed. That's good. But how are we going to manage the information in a simple way? The information requirements are so large and comprehensive that the information is really becoming inaccessible. When buying online, we will click that we have read the terms and conditions text. But the hand on the heart: How many read that text? Me and the Center Party want it to be easy to be a consumer and an entrepreneur. We have a reservation with the Moderates and Christian Democrats that we want the government to review the demands made on companies. Must what is governed by law be included in a conditional text? Or should what is better than legislation be there? Should we focus more on things that could affect the consumer's choice of purchases? I am thinking of the content of chemicals, the country of origin and transport routes. I do not have the answers, but this is what I want the government to review. Madam President, I would like While implementing the existing directives, I would like to see this reviewed, questioned and looked at how to make the information more accessible. There are examples from Denmark of how to work digitally to simplify information and how to find it as a consumer. This is obviously something that should be driven from the business community, but at the same time it is our responsibility to sort out the information and encourage the business community at work. But for this to be done, information on how consumers behave is also required. What is important to the consumer? This is certainly something that both the Swedish Consumer Agency and Sweden's consumers could contribute. Both I and the companies want to have secure customers and secure consumers who feel that they are getting the information they need. It is important that it is simpler for both parties and that it is easy to understand even for the weak consumer. Madam President, I would like We need clear rules on what a consumer is entitled to, but we also need to look at what information we are asking for. Today, the rules tend to make things more difficult than to simplify. With that, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 3.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-119	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the civil committee's report 19, which deals with proposals 2019/ 20:63. The report deals with three demands for exercise in two consecutive motions. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal as a whole to be approved in the report and for reservations to be rejected. Madam President, I would like In the bill, the government proposes a number of legislative changes based on a number of changes that have taken place at EU level. For example, we introduce two new definitions in the Distance Contracts Act, on the one hand a definition of the concept of business premises and, on the other hand, a definition of the concept of digital content. The legislative changes help to clarify the rules in the field of consumer protection, in particular in relation to distance contracts and off-premises contracts. It is important that these rules exist and that it is clear both to the consumer and to the trader what applies. When you read the report, you can see that there are no other proposals in that part at present. I can then see that the government's proposal, as it is presented, is basically good and that all parties support it. It's perfect. At the same time, however, I believe that we should have the utmost respect for the entry of sportsmen and women: that there are currently challenges in the area of consumer policy. We see today that we have a challenge around rapid digitalisation and changing buying patterns. And there are many other things that make us live in a changing world. That is why it is important for us in this House to think in the future about how to deal with the digital challenges and the new buying patterns that exist so that consumers and traders know what is going on. In the reservation put forward by the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, they basically want a broader review of consumer law rules with a view to achieving more coherent consumer legislation. It's good. But what the motionaries suggest is not dealt with in this bill. This legislative case concerns only matters relating to the implementation of matters arising from EU law. Furthermore, I think it is important to note, as the government does, that a very large part of what the proposals in the area of consumer policy are about is completely harmonised. We therefore have full harmonisation in this area. And unfortunately, perhaps we might think, a great deal of the wording that is also very detailed, which means that the Member States have very little opportunity to deal with the issue. Madam President, I would like The government is not sitting completely still and is not completely passive. Today, there are two ongoing work. Two special investigators are working to review the content of the Goods Directive. There is a chance of hopefully getting better wording for more coherent consumer legislation. The government has also appointed a special investigator working on modernising consumer protection more generally. Here, too, work is under way. So there is work going on.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-128	Madam President, I would like The Corona virus is hitting Sweden and the world extremely hard. It began as a virus in a region in a part of China that few had heard of and has spread around the world and shifted from being a serious health issue to becoming a thing that affects our economy, businesses and jobs. Not least, it affects all of us in our own everyday lives in different ways. In recent weeks we have seen big blows to businesses and entrepreneurs. Hotels are empty, and people don't eat in restaurants like before. Each of us may delay making certain purchases of clothing, shoes, and other things. The most important thing now is to reduce the spread of the Corona virus and to do what we can to prevent people from getting sick or dying. But, Madam President, this is a major problem for our economy, for businesses and for jobs. If I got that figure correctly, last week, 18,000 people — people soon going out into unemployment — were covered. In trade, it is estimated that as many as 70 000 jobs may be lost in the coming weeks, and we have many other industries in Sweden. Entrepreneurs now see their life's work fall apart. I believe that we should therefore be able to have a discussion, while at the same time having targeted, strong care measures, in order to try, in fact – here and now – to save businesses from bankruptcy and avoid job losses and that it leads to unemployment. Recently, measures have been taken by the Riksbank and the Government, among others, to deal with financial problems. Credit guarantees have been issued to the aircraft, the Riksbank has tried to secure the financial system and soon, in agreement with the Riksdag, we will take decisions on several important measures, such as giving companies the opportunity to lay off and lay off staff and to lift sickness pay liability and the cost of this from employers. These initial measures are reasonable and correct, but they are insufficient. Much more needs to be done, and it needs to be done now. Last week I talked to a hotel manager who lost over 90% of the occupancy. The hairdresser I usually cut my hair at told me that 95 percent of his turnover is gone but that he remains with a rent of over 100,000 every month. Galleries lie desolate, and traders are hit hard – an industry that has already been tried by e-commerce. Otherwise popular restaurants have few guests. More business measures need to be put in place. Now is the time to stimulate the Swedish economy powerfully and directed to help and save Swedish companies. We have an economy in Sweden with low public debt, which means that we have an economic opportunity to do this. Sweden has, so far with the Government's proposal, stimulated less than many other countries. The needs are also extensive. The Moderates have proposed a powerful 300 billion package for the economy and business. It consists of four different parts. The first part, Madam President, means that we want to take the government's amendment proposal and vote it through but to develop the proposals. It is good to give the possibility of deferment of the tax. However, we believe that corporate tax should also be postponed and that the interest rate of almost 7% proposed by the government is far too high. We think it is right and proper for the government to put forward proposals that staff should be laid off, but we think that family businesses and temporary agencies should also be able to be covered. And we think that proposals should be drawn up for the self-employed. The second part of our package concerns the abolition of employers' contributions during April and May. Right now we are in a situation where many companies have lost half, 70 percent or perhaps even their entire turnover and all their customers but remain with large fixed costs. If we do not want companies to perish, we need to make sure that costs are removed politically, and then a measure such as removing employers' contributions is extremely powerful. What we have calculated is over 70 billion kronor or over 20,000 kronor for each employee. This could make a big difference. The third part, Madam President, is targeted rental aid for particularly affected sectors: restaurants, hotels and commerce. They have two major costs: one is staff, and the other is premises and rents. It now has the possibility of lay-off, but we think it should be supplemented by removing employers' contributions. This needs to be complemented by targeted rental subsidies. We think that the state should be able to take at least half of the rent during April and May. The fourth part of our package is a business act that we think should be introduced. It will work on two things: loan guarantees and venture capital. Loan guarantees have already been worked on by the Riksbank and the Government. What we want to complement and do is a construction that continues as an entrepreneur and has contact with its bank, which conducts a customary credit test, but where the state goes in and lifts up to 90% of the risk from the bank to the state. This means in pure Swedish that there will be completely different opportunities and that the money that is put out in loan guarantees will actually benefit small businesses. The second part of the business activity is a venture capital fund. The two parts have 100 billion each, but the venture capital fund should be able to contribute to the injection of healthy capital into companies in addition to what the owners do. We believe that this is necessary for companies to survive. What we do with rental subsidies, employers' contributions and extended loan opportunities are important elements, but it is also about many entrepreneurs wanting to avoid further debting. We believe that increased opportunities for venture capital are an important part of this. Managing the impact of the crisis on businesses and jobs takes place in several phases. The government has begun the first phases, and we think this is a good thing. But now it is time to supplement this and enter the next phase. After loan guarantees and other things you simply go in with strong and targeted measures to save Swedish companies and jobs. There must be a power package in the near future in order to avoid bankruptcies and redundancies. The Prime Minister has rightly spoken about national gatherings at this stage. If he is serious, it is about presenting this here and now and having broad talks with more parties. Then we come later in this, Madam President, to other parts of crisis management. The next step is in practice to restart the Swedish economy after the shock and crisis. Then we think it will take a number of things. We need increased general and permanent state subsidies to municipalities and regions. It is a question of reducing taxes on income and pensions in order to create demand later in the economy. It is about bringing forward infrastructure investments and having a plan for increased training efforts. These are further labour market policy measures for rapid transition. At the very least, this is a broad programme of reforms that build growth and competitiveness for Sweden. But, Madam President, at the moment it is about the crisis of the clothing store, the technical consultant, the hairdresser, the restaurant and the hotel. The crisis is that tens of thousands of companies can now literally perish and that hundreds of thousands of people can become unemployed. We have a political responsibility now to do what we can to ensure that this does not happen as far as possible. We have presented a package, and it is now time to move from words to actions. Finally, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-148	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for our reservation 5 to be approved. Sweden and the world are in a changing, uncertain and troubled time in the wake of covid-19's advance. What began as a Chinese virus with an allegedly non-existent impact on Swedish public health quickly developed into a global pandemic that very much affected us as well. Various measures have been taken so far. Recommendations on hygiene and social distance have been communicated. Much of the country's education is now digital, and the possibility of closing primary schools and preschools exists. Restaurants and bars may only have a table service and so on. All these measures have been taken to limit the spread of infection in society, including to level out the curve so that care can deal with the situation but also, of course, to protect vulnerable risk groups. Madam President, I would like It is immediately impossible to know in the heat of the moment what is a perfect measure. I think we all agree on that. It is possible that some proposals have come too late, that some proposals have been too mildly designed and that other proposals do little good. There will come a time after this pandemic when, under more normal circumstances, we can evaluate the measures taken by the government and their results and the measures that the government has not taken and what the outcome could have been if measures were taken that have not been taken. Only then can we try to see and review the results of Sweden's crisis management. Until then, all parties in Parliament must act as constructively as possible. The greatest possible consensus and cooperation is desirable – both now and in the future. But at the same time, Sweden's opposition cannot allow itself to be cut completely. There is also now, as in the past, a need for us to press the government ahead of us, to examine its actions and, on the basis of available information, to contribute to the most correct decision-making possible. Madam President, I would like As I said, the future will show how effective the action of different states will be in limiting the spread of infection. Here and now, however, we can already see that the measures taken worldwide have had enormous consequences for the global economy, for the local economy and for the individual. The global economy has suffered a great deal in recent weeks, and many fear a recession more prolonged than covid-19. This has occurred not least in declines on stock exchanges around the world in the form of declines during financial crises. Those who have worked hard, done well for themselves and over time saved away and invested what they were able to do are likely to see their increases in value and more disappear. The individual trader as a normal year is working hard to get his restaurant to walk around at small margins has now almost completely lost the revenue. Small entrepreneurs far down the processing chain are now completely unordered when their customers lay off staff and pause production. Madam President, I would like Just as we write in one of our reservations in this report, the manufacturing industry is the engine of the Swedish economy, and it is a fact that makes itself even more familiar about the man I come from Skövde. It is a medium-sized city in which Volvo companies are major employers. I have relatives, childhood friends and old schoolmates who work there. Some of them have now been laid off; others are currently continuing to work. But everyone lives in constant uncertainty. Madam President, I would like Therefore, I know that it is not possible to underestimate the psychological and economic strain many Swedes are in right now. It is therefore not possible to underestimate the importance of a well-targeted and active industrial policy in an economically critical situation such as this. The Swedish Democrats have consistently pointed out, year after year, in reports on industrial policy, the importance of Sweden's small businesses receiving the resources and opportunities that they are asking for. We have repeatedly proposed measures that would have facilitated the situation in which we now find ourselves. In our reservation 5, we can read that most new jobs are created in growing small businesses, and it is these companies that have accounted for a large part of employment growth in previous booms. ..................................................... Furthermore, it is our view that enterprise policy should therefore focus on removing the obstacles that exist to encourage more small businesses to start and grow. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like This is, of course, quite correct. Unfortunately, it is little comfort for small businessmen to account for a large part of employment growth during booms when we may have just started a recession. Today it is not a question of removing obstacles to more small businesses being able to grow. It is a question of ensuring their very existence on the market in the future by drastic measures. That is why I am delighted by the moves that Jimmie Åkesson made yesterday in the field. He stressed the need for fiscal stimulus and opened up for investments of up to SEK 500 to SEK 1,000 billion. These efforts would include the abolition of social security contributions and social security contributions for six months, allowing the state to take full financial responsibility for lay-offs linked to Corona, increased unemployment funds and earmarked direct payments to companies severely affected, not least so that they can afford the fixed costs. At the same time, the loans offered to companies must be linked to a State guarantee. All of this, Madam President, must be done to ensure that hundreds of thousands of jobs are not lost in Sweden, so that large as well as small companies do not perish and, by extension, so that Sweden's economy does not collapse completely.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-167	Madam President, I would like This speech was supposed to have been made by Helena Lindahl, who is my colleague in the Committee on Economic Affairs. But like other people in Sweden, we also help each other in the Riksdag. That is why I am giving this speech. I would like to start with the fact that, of course, we in the Center Party support all our reservations. But for time winning, I only ask for reservations 1 and 15. Last Friday it was announced that Volvo Cars and Volvo Trucks are closing the doors for 45 000 employees as a result of the Corona virus. This is a figure that in practice affects many more, because the factories have so many subcontractors that are also affected. According to the CEO of the West Swedish Chamber of Commerce Johan Trouvé, there is a rule of thumb that three to four jobs and services are affected for every job a manufacturing industry has. Then one can understand the magnitude of this. For the country's self-employed who are not covered by, for example, the short-term lay-off allowance, the situation may be even tougher, not least in the tourism industry, commerce and restaurants. Many are stuck with high rents and other fixed expenses that may be difficult to influence in the short term. In addition, we know that the margins within service and restaurant are very small, and when customers do not, income and perhaps the ability to run the company will also be missed. It would be a huge loss if many of these fine companies could not live on, for the individual with all the consequences but also for Sweden as a country. It is indeed clear that hotels, restaurants and the retail sector have taken the first blow as a result of the Corona crisis. Varslen hails because the customers overnight stopped coming. For many companies, only the return of customers can change this. According to statistics from the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce, a total of SEK 261 million is lost in Sweden only due to the absence of foreign tourists. As long as it's a challenge. But even if we who live in the country withdraw from our purchases, hotels, restaurants and shops will perish. Therefore, it is important to say that each of us can make a difference through our own small choices. Madam President, I would like Of course, you should avoid large crowds, be careful to wash your hands, for some time avoid visiting older relatives and show general consideration for the surroundings by staying at home if you are ill. But let's remember that local companies can't do without us as customers. It is therefore important for those of us who are not at risk to do what we can to combine social exclusion with the habits that we have in everyday life. For example, it is possible to buy food or get it brought home. It's one way to contribute money to business cash now that it's tough. Even the aviation industry is on its knees and has recently received a contribution from the government to alleviate the crisis. However, I would also like to stress in this connection that regional airports are in a difficult situation at the moment. They are usually owned by municipalities, which often struggle with the economy. It is important that we as politicians do not forget these airports around the country. They connect the whole of Sweden and are valuable not least for the regional business community. Together with the Center Party and the Liberals, the Government has also developed other crisis packages to facilitate everyday life for entrepreneurs. So far, the focus has been on money for cortid lay-off and the possibility of postponing employers' contributions and VAT, and the government has taken over sickness pay responsibility even for the first two weeks. In addition, Almi has received a large contribution to lend money to entrepreneurs who need it. But we see that it is not enough. Therefore, more efforts need to be made in the near future but also in the long term. In order for self-employed workers not to perish, measures must be developed to safeguard the existence of these enterprises. This is something that the Center Party is putting its weight on, and we hope that it will soon produce results. As my colleague Lars Helmered mentioned, the Moderates have made a number of proposals, and so do other parties. Business organisations, companies and trade unions are making proposals. Many people are making various proposals at the moment, which I think is a good thing. And I know that the Ministry of Finance is working hard to process all these proposals to come up with another package. We have already developed two packages to deal with the crisis, but we need more packages. Above all, we will need more packages in the future to stimulate the economy once we get out of the Corona crisis. I hope that we can continue to cooperate at the political level in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The report we are discussing today contains motions which we wrote last autumn. At that time, the focus was on something completely different from alleviating and understanding the tough challenges of small businesses. I therefore choose, this time, to address only one of all the important areas in the report, namely state risk capital. That is something that will matter, not least when the crisis is levelling out. According to Growth Analysis, the majority of all venture capital exists in the three major cities in Sweden, of which 50 percent in Stockholm. In other parts of the country, the supply is more scarce. Companies even find it difficult to obtain loans from the local bank. It is therefore logical that state risk capital should exist in areas where the market is failing and where venture capital is almost non-existent. It is therefore good that, for example, state-owned Almi has its focus on the whole of Sweden and not just Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. But that should apply to all state venture capital. In the past there was the state-owned venture capital company Inlandsinnovation, which focused on loans and equity participations in companies in northern Sweden, Värmland and Dalarna, i.e. in areas where venture capital shines with its absence. Unfortunately, all parties except the Center Party supported moving the EUR 2 billion in the portfolio to Saminvest, a venture capital company registered in 2016 with its registered office in Stockholm. I hope that the company also focuses on companies outside the cities and all over Sweden, but it is difficult to see from the annual reports in which companies and where in the country the money is useful. I therefore look forward to a visit to the committee so that we can hear more about their work, including in areas where venture capital does not exist. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to return briefly to the Corona crisis and to the vulnerable situation of companies. I think it is important to point out that the urgent crisis packages for business must also be followed up by reforms for increased purchasing power and greater margins. It is fundamental because no companies want to borrow only on pure speculation but want to know which conditions should apply a little later on. But until then, each of us must do what we can to strike a balance between caution and not completely break the habits we have in our daily lives and which contribute to the foundation of our economy.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-182	Madam President, I would like We live in a special time, to put it mildly. The Corona virus has really challenged and challenged us as a society. The consequences are already being seen. Swedish small businesses are hit hard in most areas. There, tourism, local trade and small-scale production have had to pay an extra high price. It reminds us of how vulnerable we are in this global world, where much of our raw materials and products are imported from other continents, but also how much our local restaurants, traders and shops depend on us having the economy and the opportunity to buy their products. Perhaps we need to rethink the question of how companies should be run, what production should look like and how we should really support our small businesses. It is not reasonable for large companies to have such a small buffer that staff are given notice after a couple of weeks, while large dividends are made. It is really gratifying that some companies have started to rethink. But at this point, Madam President, it is important to support what needs to be prioritised here and now. It is a matter of securing our economy and our peoples' economy, but also our welfare. The Left Party will support the government in this work, of course by highlighting the needs and social rights of small businesses. Once the crisis has settled, we will be presenting proposals to safeguard small businesses in such situations. I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the positive steps that companies have taken to keep jobs alive and to support people's finances, such as rental companies that halve the rent, companies that work together to secure the production of responsors and companies that switch production to improve opportunities for example for corona tests, but also local restaurants that supply food to the elderly who are in quarantine and to health professionals. We need to feel hope. For me, part of the hope is the opportunity to develop and improve the capacity to switch to new conditions. Here we can do more. The smaller companies that actually secure the possibility of full employment and provide innovative solutions need more support to succeed in driving development forward and creating new jobs. Compared to other countries, Sweden has a slightly lower share of small businesses. Small and medium-sized enterprises also have a very small share of R & D. This means that all the products, systems, processes and services provided by sustainable development companies are lagging behind when research is transferred to a commercial enterprise. Often these companies are bought by foreign investors, and the jobs are located outside Sweden. The state has an important task in securing long-term seed financing for these. The Left Party wants to develop government seed funding as a tool to support new companies and innovations. We believe that it is important to link seed funding to a wider context of state venture capital and incubation. In this context, we cannot help emphasising women's entrepreneurship, which is often a neglected area. Today 25 per cent of Swedish companies are run by women, and 30 per cent of start-ups are started by women. Many of the state aid available for innovation show a certain imbalance, and experimental studies show that many women concerned are experiencing difficulties. Female innovators are less reached by granting decisions on loans, and the distribution per decision is lower than men's dividends. An unequal society will not be able to cope with climate changes or other difficulties. This also applies to industrial policy. We from the Left want to see an active and equal innovation policy that allows women's innovation. The state's support for innovation must take into account women's innovation. Women should receive a greater share of the funds allocated to innovation, and it needs to be gradually increased to reach 50% by 2025. Madam President, I would like I would like to call for reservation 12 to set clear gender equality policy objectives so that we can ensure sustainable development where jobs are created through innovation and innovation and then be translated into new products and services.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-193	Madam President, I would like In the report, the Left Party questions the fact that the Swedish Innovation Agency Vinnova is engaged in innovation cooperation with perhaps the most innovative state in the world, Israel. It writes, among other things, that the government selects Israel as an interesting country for business cooperation in research and innovation is remarkable. Personally, I do not think it is so remarkable to engage in innovation cooperation with a state that is exceptionally good at innovation. Anyone who has seen everything at rikslagen.se is well aware that I asked this question last year too, but I feel that we are now in an exceptional situation. We have a global pandemic that sweeps the world and leaves disease, death and economic crisis behind. In this situation, the World Health Organisation has identified Israel as one of the states that is currently working successfully to produce a vaccine. My question to Mr Delgado is therefore whether she and the Left Party would be ready at this desperate time to overlook the fact that Vinnova continues its innovation cooperation with Israel.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-197	Madam President, I would like If I understand correctly, there is nothing about the innovation work with Israel in the regulation letter for 2020. Israel is an occupying state. With regard to the spread of the Corona virus, I wonder what will happen to the people of Palestine when Israel stops drugs from arriving. The Palestinians do not have access to clean water and do not have the means to have safe medical care. I believe that Sweden can cooperate with many other countries that have a well-developed work in this regard. Here in Sweden, too, the pharmaceutical industry is doing a great deal of work. Among other things, Astra Zeneca has switched its research teams to work on this issue.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-200	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for his reply. It is currently impossible to know which state or company will be the first to produce a successful vaccine. However, we know that Israel is extremely innovative and prominent in this area of research. There is currently research showing positive results, which, in my opinion, should be promoted rather than suppressed. In the report, the Left Party explicitly points out that Sweden should have no cooperation in this area with Israel, and I find this remarkable. Mr Delgado is concerned about the Palestinians, but I am fully convinced that they would also benefit if Israel were to have a vaccine in place. Once a vaccine is in place, it will make it easier for everyone, including the Palestinians. I understand that Mr Delgado is not ready to allow Sweden to cooperate with Israel in innovation despite Israel's state of research on vaccines against Corona. Let us draw it to the fore: if Israel claims to be close to producing a vaccine and asks for help from Sweden or specifically Vinnova, could the Left Party in such a hypothetical example allow itself to stand behind some form of cooperation with Israel for the greater good, that is, to produce a vaccine that can save people the world over?
i-c34cad7256ebee42-206	Madam President, I would like Innovation cooperation must come with demands, and one of these requirements should be that Israel should open the gates of the occupied territories, withdraw and give the Palestinian people the opportunity to receive the care to which everyone else is entitled. I wonder if you know the history of Israel, Tobias Andersson. You seem to think that the Palestinians will benefit from Israel's research progress. However, Israel's occupation history shows how Israel has occupied more and more areas and imposed increasing restrictions on the Palestinian people. Even relief organizations are not allowed to take in medicines.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-208	I would remind Members to speak through the President and not to give each other a duel in the debate.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-209	Madam President, I would like Our business community is heavily exposed to the corona infection. Thousands of entrepreneurs struggle to save tomorrow for their employees, their family and themselves. When the order lists are empty and visitors and bookings are missing, they see how their life's work is being destroyed. They're struggling with the question. How long are we going to be able to do it? ..................................................... We are already seeing record notice, 18,000 in the month of March. The Stockholm Chamber of Commerce estimates that 800 000 jobs in the country are seriously threatened. We have all spoken to anxious and desperate small businessmen, a group which is now under inhumane pressure. Welcome crisis measures have been put in place by the government, but more needs to be done to reach the small entrepreneur, to small businesses. The Christian Democrats have, in a constructive spirit, highlighted proposals regarding, among other things, government credit guarantees for the Riksbank's crisis loan, a review of the extremely high interest rate cost of deferred tax payments and the abolition of representative liability for small businesses using the deferral opportunity. Madam President, I would like We also believe that there should be more far-reaching possibilities for short-term lay-off, with a cost reduction for the employer of up to 90%. Family members should also be included, and proposals should be made to cover self-employed workers. In this difficult situation, derogations should also be introduced so that it is enough for the small business to pause the business in order to obtain the unemployment benefit. All of this is in order to save both jobs and businesses. Every day without clear information to small businesses will be for them another day of anxiety and despair and without knowing about the company will remain. Madam President, I would like Today we are not actually debating the impact of corona contamination on business, but the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. There must be plans for both the short and long term. We Christian Democrats believe that good conditions for individual initiatives where companies can afford and employ should guide business policy. Growing regulatory burdens weigh on our business community. The government's regulatory simplification tour must produce results. The Christian Democrats want to see structures that combat regulatory burden as a rule in, a rule out and neighbouring controls that protect Sweden's companies against unjustified over-implementation of EU rules compared to our neighbours. An action plan with clearly defined objectives that are continuously followed up in the Riksdag should also be developed, especially in times such as these. In order to strengthen the policy of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are often family businesses, we believe that ownership changes need to be simplified. In addition, the possibility of employees wishing to own and run a business should be further explored. We believe that a number of transfer offices should be opened throughout the country. Offices should be able to provide advice and support to entrepreneurs in ownership change processes, both in the case of shifts within families and in the case of shifts to staff. The process as it stands today can be experienced in a difficult way and affects many people. Around 100 000 entrepreneurs are facing ownership changes in the coming years. Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the world's best countries in terms of innovation, but in terms of commercialisation there is potential for improvement. A review of the innovation system should be undertaken to clarify this benefit. It should include the entire process chain, from the inventive stage to commercialisation, and highlight actors at different levels to make the system easily accessible, understandable and adequate. In order to stimulate advances in technology, innovation competitions can be a tool. We agree with the proposal on this. Many people today lack the means to start a business. This is particularly evident in rural areas. We Christian Democrats believe that a review should be made of the funding opportunities that currently exist for individuals, businesses and other actors to invest in local business development. The aim is to facilitate rural entrepreneurship. The problem of capital supply in the non-profit sector also needs to be highlighted. One way forward, as highlighted in the report, could be to consider a special investment fund with this aim. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, favourable conditions for entrepreneurship are crucial for jobs and growth. Through strong companies, we lay the foundations for a strong welfare. Without companies, we have no welfare.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-227	Madam President, I would like It is unfortunately, I would say, as the saying goes: no evil that has nothing good with it. In the midst of the Corona crisis, a struggle is currently taking place throughout our society, not least in the business world. It's all about survival. But there is also something positive. In society as a whole, there is now a major and urgent debate on the business environment and the conditions for entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, the debate is taking place in the midst of a crisis. The situation we find ourselves in is certainly exceptional. But there is a fundamental problem that we politicians have to change. It is about the view of society on entrepreneurs. As we all know, companies are the backbone of our society. Without companies, there are no jobs. Without a job, there's no welfare. Mathematics is quite simple. As a liberal, I believe that better business conditions create more jobs. More jobs in growing companies mean increased tax revenue, which in turn finances, for example, our common welfare. So there is still a big job to do. In my speech today, however, I am not going to focus on how to improve the conditions for businesses in order for them to grow. I'm going to focus on the entrepreneur. I intend to focus on what we all see as basic security in our society and on the fact that the departure between being an entrepreneur and an employee is a mile long. I'm going to tell you more about the entrepreneur's conditions when it blows most and when the worry is greatest. There we are today, in the midst of one of the greatest storms in modern history. And we need to talk about the elephant in the room: the entrepreneur's safety. Madam President, I would like I'm an old entrepreneur myself. I have both run companies in my own direction and had several employees. Crisises within a company are about double stomach pain for the entrepreneur. Difficult times are about having stomach pain not only for your own economy but also for the situation of your employees. Hiring someone in your own company is at least as much about creating the conditions for another person to grow as welcoming someone into your own family. Starting a business, regardless of size, is about creating a life's work and is mixed with blood, sweat and tears and of course a great deal of joy. When you grow, you grow together, like a family. And when difficult times come, the entrepreneur has responsibility not only for himself, the company and his own family but also for the family created within the company. Entrepreneurship is about a responsibility that you never get away from. There is a big difference between being an employee and an entrepreneur. But we can create similar conditions so that both can ride out storms more easily. In my business, I've never cut gold with a knife. That's never been the goal of my business. It has been about creating something, developing and investing in your own company and in the employees who are on the journey. However, on the day I chose to start my own business, all the safety nets that we see as self-evident in our society, such as sickness benefit, unemployment insurance and parental benefit schemes, disappeared or weakened. Madam President, I would like I've been talking to a lot of entrepreneurs this past week. Everyone is in an extraordinary situation. I am pleased that there is a great deal of agreement in our Parliament to find tried and tested methods to help our business community. But it also hurts to see and hear all the stories. Let me tell you about Charlotte and her husband Ronnie. Not too long ago they started a pastry shop in Karlstad. They bet everything they owned and had on their big dream. It has been tough, but they have managed to create an oasis where every day they proudly receive regulars and new customers. It's been heartbreaking to meet them in the middle of the Corona crisis. Their concern does not lie in how they are going to manage themselves, even if that worry is great. On the contrary, when I met them in the bakery, crying and sad, it was all about the employees they have had to resign. It is therefore not only about the responsibility of the company, itself and its loved ones, but also about the family that has been created within the company. The security that society can offer employees does not offer society the entrepreneur. How can it even be possible in Sweden by 2020? We are to be one of the world's most equal countries, where equality is A and O. I myself have been pushing the issue for over 15 years. Liberals have pushed the issue further than that. But it becomes incredibly clear that there are great differences between being an employee and an entrepreneur. Because I'm ashamed. Charlotte's and Ronnie's story is far from unique. The stories are the same, no matter which entrepreneur I've talked to. These are concerns about the future and, above all, concerns about the family created by the company. Madam President, I would like I would like Members of Parliament to consider what signals we want to give to entrepreneurs of the future and what image of entrepreneurship we want to give to young people. I want more companies to be set up. We have a great responsibility to make it as obvious to be self-employed as to be employed. The systems of sickness benefit, unemployment insurance and parental benefit need to be more closely equated between entrepreneurs and wage earners. Society can never take over all the responsibilities associated with running businesses. But we can at least make sure that the conditions are the best and relieve the stomach pain for the entrepreneur. Suddenly what must not happen happens, and then society and its safety net must be there for everyone. I therefore request the approval of reservation 9.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-243	Madam President, I would like In this House, we are now debating one of the most important elements in the creation of a strong welfare society, namely nutrition policy. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. Like previous speakers, I note that our country and, not least, the business sector are currently in a very difficult situation. Perhaps we are in the midst of a crisis that will change our society and business in a decisive way. The direction of that change is determined by the decisions we make right now. Normally, we had debated regulatory simplifications, innovation policies and various proposals for tax relief. These are important issues, but they now feel like issues that need to be put into the context that we are in with this crisis. The outbreak of the Corona virus has led to great notice and declines on the stock exchange and is a severe blow to our many and important small businesses. It has certainly affected all parts of our society. I will, of course, touch on these challenges but would first like to make some impact in the report. Madam President, I would like Sweden ranks second best in innovation worldwide, which is of the utmost importance for a small and export-dependent nation in a highly globalised world that is now under great pressure. We should be proud of this, but we cannot be satisfied with it. Therefore, I am pleased that the government continues to work to develop and stimulate the pace of innovation, including through NIK, the national office for innovation competitions, which is funded by Vinnova. NIK is from 2020 a knowledge centre within Rise and has the task of offering support to those who want to organise innovation competitions. This support was initially focused on public organisations but will be extended during this year to include commercial operators. I would like to note in particular that the Government has previously launched two innovation competitions focusing on sustainable mobility as a service and local sustainable energy systems, two highly topical issues. Madam President, I would like I am pleased with these things, as innovation and innovation are key areas in the work to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and at the same time contribute to the global goals of sustainable development. In a time dominated by both climate and health crises, it is important that our business community is given the right conditions to make a green transition, but also to be able to contribute to health care by, among other things, increasing digitalisation, having effective collaboration and not least having access to the right skills. The Government has therefore commissioned Vinnova, Rise and the Swedish Agency for Growth to implement measures that create these conditions. In addition, the Government has carried out several measures within the framework of Smart Industry with the intention that the industry throughout Sweden will increase its competitiveness and its participation in the highly qualified parts of the global value chains. Now we also see the vulnerability of global value chains. But that doesn't mean we should back up the tape and crawl back into our national shells. On the contrary, the work of reforming trade policy must continue to ensure that we meet the societal challenges we have in common and that we can distribute prosperity more fairly. Our time requires more cooperation, not less. As early as June 2018, the Government commissioned, among other things, the Swedish Agency for Growth to promote the transition towards smart industry at regional level in 2018–2020 and create good conditions for industry throughout the country. I would also like to emphasise the availability of skills as another important prerequisite for continued innovation. It is through collaboration between universities and universities, industry and the public sector that Sweden can gather together to solve problems and overcome the challenges that society faces and in the middle of. I therefore welcome the fact that the Government has taken further work on the strategic cooperation programmes. They're needed more than ever. Madam President, I would like The spread of the Corona virus is a global crisis and a major challenge for Sweden. Of course, it is primarily a public health challenge. Around the country, heroes in the health care sector are currently working with the Public Health Agency and other authorities to flatten the vector spread curve and to protect risk groups. The companies in both the medtech industry and the pharmaceutical industry also contribute constructively to meeting the problems we are facing with the need for vaccines, protective equipment and tests. Of course, the economic impact is also clear, not least for our many small and self-employed businesses. The spread of the Corona virus has led to significant disruptions in the financial system and on the international capital market. Around the country there is a great concern about how to get through this time of stagnant growth and dramatically reduced consumption. It is therefore important that we face this uncertainty with political cooperation and a determined strategy that supports fundamentally viable Swedish companies. Madam President, I would like There will be a tomorrow, including for business and, not least, small businesses. The question now is what tomorrow will look like and what we can do to facilitate recovery and ensure that as many innovative, important and job-creating companies as possible make it through. The government acted quickly with strong measures to support the challenged business community. The government is taking over medical expenses. The government has brought forward and improved the possibility of short-term lay-offs that reduce companies' wage costs. Liquidity enhancements are provided through the tax account, at the same time as the Riksbank is now starting its lending of up to SEK 500 billion to the companies via the banks to ensure the credit supply. In addition, on Friday Almi Företagspartner received an additional SEK 3 billion to increase lending to small and medium-sized enterprises throughout the country and thus facilitate financing for the companies. Now it is also necessary for the banks to assume their social responsibility so that innovative Swedish companies do not have to fail unnecessarily. Madam President, I would like We must constantly look for new, necessary and innovative measures to support small and self-employed entrepreneurs. One important area that needs to be activated right now is cooperation with regions and municipalities, which have great potential to facilitate local business and stimulate growth and trade. I would also like to make it clear that the government does not rule out any measures in the economic field or in other areas affecting different parts of society in the course of its further work. This is a common challenge, and we must face it together.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-261	Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis is extremely serious. I think that all of us who talk to entrepreneurs see what effects it has and what potential risks there are. This is soon to be said for every industry. Hundreds of thousands of people can soon stand without a job in Sweden. I think that the government has taken several good initiatives, such as putting proposals on Parliament's table on lay-offs and on lifting sick pay. We will, of course, vote in favour of these proposals in agreement. These are reasonable and proper measures. However, the measures are insufficient. The Moderates have presented a broad package of what we think is needed now, namely targeted support for Swedish companies so that they do not perish but survive. We have to do what we can to save the remaining businesses and jobs right now. It is important – not least when we get out of this crisis – that there are companies that can quickly start up to get a faster recovery in the economy. We've been talking about giving rent support, removing employers' contributions and raising capital. There may also be other solutions. Most recently today several experts in Svenska Dagbladet and Dagens Nyheter wrote about similar solutions. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise did so yesterday. I think this is the time for the government to act now and do something similar in this area. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Helene Hellmark Knutsson a question. You talk about national gatherings. In what way will the government involve the Riksdag and its parties in the continued work on measures to ensure that Swedish economy and Swedish companies are secured?
i-c34cad7256ebee42-265	Madam President, I would like It is indeed a new reality in which we are in the midst. Usually our debates are about which taxes are to be removed. Now it is more about how much money the state, that is, the taxpayer, should distribute. As Lars Helmered says, huge sums of money have already been made available. However, I am well aware that this is not enough, as I am married to a self-employed person. We need more measures than those on the table now. I also know, Madam President, that an enormous amount of work is being done at the Government Office to develop new packages. It is the January parties that are negotiating this in the Government Office. But I am well aware that we want to find as broad a national collection as possible around this. That is also why today we will have an information meeting in the Committee on Economic Affairs with two of the ministers working closest to these issues: Minister for Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan and Minister for Trade Anna Hallberg.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-267	Madam President, I would like The effects I think we can all now see. Similarly, I believe that the vast majority agree that action must be taken in several stages and different phases. It is reasonable and correct that the Riksbank and the Government have done to try to secure the financial system and issue loan guarantees. But we also see clear reactions coming from many companies. They note that this is right, but it does not benefit companies. The money won't come out. That is why we have proposed, among other things, that part of the security be lifted from the banks so that the banks can de facto lend to small and medium-sized enterprises. Similarly, there are comments that what has been done is right but that it is not enough there for hotels, restaurants, shops and other things to literally perish right now. It is necessary to raise more wage, employer's, rent and other costs in order to tackle this at all. You can divide the exact percentages or orientations. But now is the time to enter the next phase. We have tabled our proposal. There may be other parts in this. The government is, of course, free to choose whether it does so itself, with the support parties it has under the January agreement or seeking broader agreements and tasks in this. I can only say on our part that we are trying to continue to be a constructive party to this. My promise here and now and later is that I will not say that it is too little and too late for Helene Hellmark Knutsson and others. I mean it, but you can say it a little funny. The situation as an opposition representative is as soon as possible to consider: how can we come up with political proposals that can get us through this crisis in different ways? That is my promise, and we will continue to do so. Then it's up to the government. Is it serious that there should be a national gathering of parties in order to reach broad deals in other forms? It's free. But we will act to do our bit in the current situation. It is in fact about literally saving jobs and companies in Sweden right now.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-274	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for that promise! I value it very much. I think it's just like Lars Helmered says. This is a time when we all realize how dependent we are on each other. It is precisely cooperation that is the way forward. I know that the Government Office is now working on upcoming packages. They take in all the proposals that have come from parties, associations and companies and value them to continue their efforts to support our companies for both jobs and the future. At the same time, we now see that more and more companies can be involved in the work. I mentioned the pharmaceutical industry and the medtech industry. The entire tech industry is now helping with the digitisation of important meetings but also with, for example, teaching. It's very pleasing. Now I would like to see the real estate industry also showing its potential in terms of, for example, rents, possibly with support from the state. Madam President, I would like As I said in my introduction, I really believe that what is now going to happen is that we are shaping a new era. We need to think about what we're bringing and what we're leaving behind. What I want to take with me from this time is precisely to see how we need to cooperate more, how interdependent we are and how important it is that we have the same goal of a viable society with both more prosperity and more equal distribution of that prosperity. I look forward to working with all parties in Parliament on this.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-279	Madam President, I would like I'm not going to be that long in the speaker's chair. I note that this, of course, is not a time for polemics and unnecessary debate. Nevertheless, I will comment on the crisis we are in a bit from a business perspective and talk a little about management and measures. First of all, it is not just a business crisis. It's primarily a human crisis we're in where people get sick and die. That is important to note. In addition, some conclusions can be drawn from the development of the Corona virus and its consequences. It's not the same as 2008. The 2008 crisis was a crisis of confidence that began on the financial market and spread throughout the economy. What we are seeing now is a crisis that began in the real economy because of a completely changed situation for entrepreneurship and the labour market as a result of the rise of the Corona virus. These are basically two different types of crisis. This is in many ways a more serious crisis because it is profound throughout the economy. It is a question of reducing demand in the economy on a broad front. I'll tell you how we now need to deal with the situation. At an initial stage, it has been very important for the government and for authorities to deal with the most vulnerable sectors more specifically. It is, of course, the tourism industry, the commerce and the restaurants, to name a few. Here we have had more specific crisis packages and needed to focus. In the future, we will need more general support measures and stimulus packages. From a green perspective, it has been very important that we will guarantee now that it is aimed not least at smaller companies and self-employed people who are currently having a very tough time in this situation. We are moving from quite specific measures to now making it broader. I would also like to direct a few words to entrepreneurs. I would first like to say to the small businessmen and self-employed who are out there that we are aware of the tough situation that is now taking place and that help is on the way. The government will return with measures and support packages that will help and support the business and liquidity of companies. We are working intensively to develop more policy in this area. Then I also have a serious call for the banks, credit companies and management that now have to deal with this. Now is not the time to be involved in dividends and bonuses. We are in a very strained situation in a very serious situation. Then it is not time to keep up with dividends and bonuses. I want to be very clear about that. If you think about the longer term, it is important that we now move from extinguishing fires to thinking about how to build society. It is important to bring some lessons from 2008 and some general thoughts about it. Our entry point when we are going to build up in the long term is that it has to be done in a green and smart way. Of all the incentive programmes developed during the 2008 financial crisis, a very small proportion were incentives for green sectors. I think that is something that has been penalising itself afterwards. Green sectors are often profitable in the long term and build the economy strong and resilient. This applies not least to investments in fixed infrastructure such as rail. We need to think about this when we are building the economy. We need to build right, green and long-term. From our perspective, it is important to think through how we can stimulate investment in green transport, the circular economy and the bio-based economy. There is a great deal that can be done to stimulate the renewable energy sector, which has already grown, and everything that concerns that sector. It's about energy storage, hydrogen, battery operation and so on. It is the industries of the future that are important to stimulate the future. We need to move soon from putting out fires to thinking long-term. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for the motion to be rejected.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-291	Madam President, I would like Corona has hit the whole community hard. Both entire industries and individual companies have been severely affected. What has mainly been highlighted earlier in this debate has been precisely the tourism industry and the challenges it faces. But of course the transport sector has also been affected. Personally, I can tell you that when I went to Skövde this weekend we were four people who sat in the whole train car on both the down and the counter. I heard from several colleagues that they have experienced completely empty airports when they have been commuting to Stockholm recently. I am therefore pleased that one of the first sectors targeted by the government was the aviation industry. One of the very first measures taken was to provide billion-dollar credit guarantees to the aviation industry. By targeting billions of loans to air carriers licensed to operate commercial air transport activities and having their principal place of business or registered in Sweden, Lorentz Tovatts and the Swedish Green Party Government have undoubtedly contributed to securing future air travel in Sweden. At the same time, this is an extremely strained situation, and we will therefore have to take further steps to secure air travel over time. My question to Mr Tovatt, Madam President, is whether he considers it appropriate to extend these credit guarantees in future or to provide direct aid to the aviation industry in order to ensure that we can continue to fly domestic in the future.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-295	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tobias Andersson, for the question. It sounds a bit at Tobias Andersson that he takes the opportunity to politicise issues and travel around a lot in the country. I would recommend that he not do so; at least I would recommend that he listen to the recommendations of the authorities when it comes to travelling around the country. But it may not belong here. As Tobias Andersson states, the government has gone out with aid packages for aviation. That was necessary, because aviation is the industry that may be hit by the most. The Green Party is clear about one thing: Air travel must be reduced if we are to meet climate targets. There is no doubt about that. Everything else is anti-scientific. I hope that Tobias Andersson will not deny the science on which air travel must be reduced if we are to meet the climate targets. On the other hand, it is quite unreasonable for air travel to reduce in the way that has happened now, i.e. that it completely crashes. There are few politicians who defend such a clear crash. What is needed, instead, is a controlled reduction based on instruments and measures that can be directed by politicians and that are guided by people's naturally decreasing demand for flying because they want to take responsibility for the climate issue. The temporary crisis package for the aviation industry was therefore necessary, and it cannot be excluded that there will have to be more. However, I think it is important to say that other parts of the transport sector will also need support. This applies, in particular, to the bus industry, the rail sector and public transport.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-299	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer from Mr Lorentz. I have travelled to my constituency, and I believe that Lorentz Tovatt is having a hard time blaming me for that. In fact, it is not possible to take one of those folding electric bicycles that Lorentz usually drags along to committee meetings, but to travel by train. Then you also pay attention to how empty it is on the trains and get a deeper understanding of the challenges that Sweden faces. But as I said, airports and aircraft are also empty, as my colleagues have testified. It is not, therefore, something I personally have experienced at this point in time. I am pleased that, in this crisis, the Green Party understands the value of choice of transport alternatives in Sweden. You understand the value of continuing to have competitive air traffic that can actually ensure that even those who live far from Stockholm have the opportunity to travel in Sweden through domestic flights. Having said that, there is more and more talk of not only providing credit guarantees and loans of various kinds at the moment, but actually providing purely financial support. Support has been given to cultural life, for example, and several parties want to see this extended and wider. My question remains, Madam President, as to whether the government of Lorentz Tovatt and the Green Party, which have already supported airlines through credit guarantees, could consider also directing clean direct payments to this industry in order to ensure that we can continue to have domestic flights in Sweden in the future.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-303	Madam President, I would like Let me allow myself to zoom out a little and explain some of what I was on in the previous line shift. This is about the emergency situation that we are in right now. There is a huge difference between this and the situation that existed a few months ago. What happened at the time was that flying decreased in Sweden. It is reduced for two reasons. One is political action, and the other is people opting out of flying because they want to take responsibility for the future of the planet. That is two very reasonable and positive reasons for reduced flying. These are simply verifiable factors and things that happen because people really want to take responsibility. Aviation tax has been particularly important in this context. What's happening now is a complete crash. No one is asking for such a situation. It is very harmful, not least for the people who work in the various industries that are now affected. They simply lose their jobs overnight. It is problematic, not least because the industries will eventually go back up, and then people will have lost their jobs unnecessarily. For example, as a positive result of the previous changes, we see that some airports that are not needed are now closing down. Västerås Airport is located near other airports, and it can be closed down without such very negative consequences. It is simply positive for this type of reduced flying. Now I don't have time to answer more than that, but as I said earlier, the government will continue to work with support packages. It will also focus on other areas, perhaps above all in the future. Nothing can be ruled out.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-308	Madam President, I would like Today we have a debate on regional growth taking place in the light of and at the same time with the serious Corona crisis we have in Sweden and in the world. We're all affected in different ways. Some are sick, others have been laid off and still others are in their own quarantine at home to prevent infection or infection. The staff in Swedish healthcare are doing a fantastic job in this situation that should be encouraged and appreciated in all ways. Then, Madam President, some time later when we are somehow through the Corona crisis. What needs to happen now, of course, is first and foremost measures in the field of transmission and care. In parallel, we in the Moderates believe that strong, large and targeted support is also required for companies and jobs. This applies regardless of whether you are in a big city, in smaller towns or in Swedish sparsely populated and rural areas. In the tracks of Corona, companies and entrepreneurs around the country are hit hard. Maybe people don't buy clothes and shoes the way we do otherwise. Traders may be affected. Some may get increased turnover, while it is a big blow to others. And in every town, city and community in Sweden there are usually shops, shopping streets or malls that are extremely affected in the situation we are in right now. Critical measures for businesses and jobs must come now, Madam President. Such measures are crucial for both the urban and rural areas and the smaller ones in Sweden. People should be able to live, live, work and work throughout the country both now and in the future. For us, it is therefore crucial that Sweden's development power, growth potential and employment opportunities should be exploited throughout the country and that people and companies should be given opportunities to grow and develop wherever they live and work in Sweden. We support continued and strengthened support for small stores in vulnerable and vulnerable sparsely populated areas in Sweden. We think that you can develop this operating support and look at what factors are at the basis when you allocate money and that you take into account the costs associated with the operation of the stores in order for it to benefit more people. We also believe that traders around the country – rural traders who are often a central point, a hub – should be able to have more legs to stand on. It is important that you, as you often already are today, are a representative of the pharmacy or Systembolaget and that this is more shops, because it is often a key point and a hub for the whole country to live. It could be the store, and it could be the gas station. In this respect, more needs to be done. Madam President, I would like The pressure in trade has increased recently. Some shop more, and some hamster products. All parts of our society are affected by what is going on right now. I believe that the Corona crisis will also affect regional growth in different ways. Just to take a few examples, we have a comprehensive berry and fruit business in Sweden that has long been borne out by staff coming to Sweden from other countries and doing important work. Now we are faced with a coming summer season when it will reasonably be if not impossible so at least much more difficult to cope with staff supply for an important industry around the country. Another thing is the availability of the internet and connectivity. Many companies and people want it, and you should have it in all parts of the country. In the past, there has been a lot of support on a reasonable basis from the state and the EU for its existence and functioning. This has been put to the test in various ways, but the benefits and opportunities have also been demonstrated. Schools today have been forced, for real and practical reasons, to have distance learning, e-learning, and to test the kind of instruments that have been referred to in the past. We can see how this could later be developed and provide completely different opportunities. You could have distance learning and keep schools in remote places that you could not otherwise have. I believe that later we will see the same development after many of us in this serious situation have made much more use than before of the distance possibilities available with teleconferences and videoconferencing. Of course, the human meeting, to go to the conference in Stockholm or the fair in Gothenburg, is also very important in the future, but this still shows that we may be able to practice an ability to take advantage of the actual opportunities that exist with digitalisation. It also strengthens regional growth and opportunities to live. Another serious aspect is, of course, linked to transport. I think we will later have a discussion to come back to how we can secure transport in different ways in Sweden. Transport is like a bloodstream in the economy, and this is, of course, affected by a serious crisis. We must see the seriousness of this when trains run empty, long-distance bus services do not roll as they usually do and airlines are threatened. Some companies may perish. We need to have a discussion later on about how this is going to work. Companies in all parts of the country should be able to count on good transport both for the goods and for us as people. This crisis is going to follow us for a long time. I believe that the most important thing now, also in the context of a debate on regional growth, Madam President, is the immediate action that needs to be taken. I have said it before, and I can say it again: I think it is right that the government, the Riksbank and others have done that have taken measures that can secure the financial system and that they quickly do so. But it is now time for the next step in crisis management. We must literally do what we can politically to go in and save businesses and jobs. This applies to companies in the country's largest cities, in smaller towns and in Swedish rural and sparsely populated areas. If we do not take political responsibility now, it is tens of thousands of companies that can perish and hundreds of thousands of jobs that can be lost. The price in both urban and rural areas can be historic. Then, when we are through this later on, we come to a situation where it is about restarting Sweden and the Swedish economy. Then we need, among other things, to have increased state subsidies for municipalities and regions. It is about securing the welfare of all parts of the country. And it's about a lot of other measures to build up demand and make growth reforms. That day is coming, but right now it is the emergency measures that need to be taken. Finally, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-321	Madam President, I would like This debate on regional growth is taking place for an exceptional time. The spread of a microscopic virus, which causes the disease covid-19, has, in recent weeks, crippled large parts of the industrial world and so has our elongated country. We are in a position where interest in the political debate that cannot be directly linked to the management of the Corona crisis is very cool, if not non-existent. That is why, Madam President, it is my ambition in this speech to try to relate to some aspects of this crisis that we are in, which are actually linked to regional growth in particular. In times when people fear an invisible killer in the form of a virus, it may seem a little inappropriate to talk about the whole of Sweden living. But in fact, the phrase torn from this speaker's seat is now more topical than ever. It is time that the message that h ela Sweden should live has a real meaning and an actual content and does not remain empty words that it is chic to swing into this speaker's seat when it suits. What we are seeing now, literally during this debate, is that large parts of the country are closing down. Workshop industry, travel industry, entertainment and sports arenas are booming again and giving notice to their staff. Small one-man and family businesses, giants such as Volvo and Scania and state-owned companies such as SAS lay off people or kneel financially when customers are absent and thus also revenues. Sports clubs and stadiums bleed when the playoffs and other competitions are cancelled. Hotels and restaurants stand without guests, and trains roll almost empty. In fact, the country stops – from Kiruna in the north to Ystad in the south. It is an extremely sad development, and just as I am suffering from all those who have relatives who are currently being intensively cared for or have died because of covid-19, I am suffering with all those entrepreneurs, big and small, who are succumbing to the loss of revenue. I also suffer with all the employees who have been sent home without pay, all those who have relied on hourly contracts that are not encircled and all those who are losing their jobs. Madam President, I would like It is easy for me as parliamentarians to stand here in this speaker's seat and tell me that the crisis will be temporary – because it will be – that most of it will be resolved by means of initiatives and support packages aimed at entrepreneurs and that the country's economy will recover. But I choose not to. I choose to refrain from it out of respect for all those entrepreneurs, associations and organisations in the country who feel that their activities are in a hurry and that all the hard work, all the investments and all the efforts are ending in a tragedy because the support and efforts decided by us politicians may not be enough or benefit their very activities. Here, Madam President, I think we have a lesson to learn and a lesson to do. Around our elongated country in small towns that many have hardly heard of are all these companies, all these enterprising people and all these innovators and entrepreneurs. They struggle and do everything from running dog sledding and snowmobile safaris to arranging music festivals, conferences and wedding parties or producing niche products such as malt whisky, red point sights, complex components for the automotive industry or designer clothing. The list can be made as long as possible. As I mentioned, many of these companies are in our countryside. It is far from everyone who boasts of large headquarters or production facilities in one of our big cities. In most cases, it is even the case that entrepreneurship in question is the prerequisite for keeping the countryside alive. Sometimes stands and falls a district with a single company. If I say Bengtsfors, you'll understand what I mean. Sometimes it is rather a cluster of companies in synergy, as in the case of the tourism around Icehotel in Jukkasjärvi or the car test business in Arjeplog which is now both very hard hit by the closed borders. It is also about country shops, small petrol stations, campsites, holiday villages, restaurants and the like which create the conditions for living and living in the countryside but which also helps to keep it going for the country so important the tourism industry. Here, Madam President, it is appropriate to ask a relevant question: how can it be that so many of our companies, although they are considered to flourish, even though they have plenty of customers and even though they are doing well, have such small margins? Could it be that we have a combined tax burden that simply does not create room for small businessmen to build up such assets that they are well equipped in the event of bad times? What flashes in our system are crystallizing during the current crisis, and who did we know before? For example, has it been so wise to conduct a policy that has led a large number of farmers to throw in the towel so that we have to rely on food from abroad? Has it benefited our rural areas that many smaller petrol stations have been forced down because of complicated and rigid regulations? This is a question which, incidentally, has once again become a matter of concern. Has it been so wise to tax private cars on fire and to make people dependent on the means of public transport that now, when society is in crisis, is falling and being cancelled? Is urbanisation, large-scaleness and densification positive or negative from a disease-protection point of view? Would the spread of infection have been limited or intensified if the proposed new travel allowances had been a reality so that more people had experienced forced entry on buses and trains? Do we have any lessons to learn from this? It is my belief, or should I say conviction, that rural areas are basically better equipped to overcome such a crisis. However, it presupposes that rural areas are allowed to live – that they understand the value of smaller rural schools instead of children spending a couple of hours each day in buses, that they understand the importance and value of the local shop or gas station, which is not rarely one and the same company, and that they understand the importance of domestic production and tourism, not least in a situation where we have the infection under control but other countries may not have it. As I see it, it is therefore of the utmost importance that we not only normally, when there is no Corona epidemic, ensure that small businesses around the country are well placed to run their businesses. The issue becomes even more topical in times like these when we see a tourist and visitor industry in free fall, a industry that is also important both for the brand Sweden and as an important part of the country's prerequisites for regional growth. I would therefore like, in addition to emphasising the importance of support for, among other things, commercial services in rural areas, to highlight in particular support for the so important and now extremely vulnerable tourism and tourism industry. I call for far-reaching support measures for companies in this industry to survive this crisis and be in a position to receive new bookings and visitors once the Corona crisis has resolved. Having said that, Madam President, in accordance with the new agreement, I am only calling for reservation 4 in the report, although, of course, I support all our reservations.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-340	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that, of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Center Party in the report on regional growth policy, but for time, I only call for reservation 1. It feels strange to stand in this Chamber and discuss regional growth policy when Sweden and the world have a full focus on combating the coronavirus and covid-19. On 31 December last year, the Chinese authorities reported on the first confirmed case in the city of Wuhan. It has been barely four months since then, and six days ago China reported that there are no new domestic cases of Corona. Corona's effect on the world is enormous, and Sweden is not the exception. I think that Sweden has so far handled this rapid course of events in an exemplary way. The virus not only strikes elderly multisick people, but the fight against infection affects society as a whole. Jobs and entrepreneurship are severely affected. We have all had many talks with those affected, and we know how tough it is for companies right now. Above all, it is small businesses whose income is blown away. The various Corona packages that have been delivered so far and on which there is a great deal of political agreement have been good, but more will be needed. I am convinced that more urgent packages of measures will come shortly to resolve the immediate crisis, but after that, stimulus packages will also be needed to get the wheels back on track. The world is changing rapidly and through dramatic events. Many of them I could not see coming: the fall of the wall, which perhaps started globalisation, the financial crisis and now the corona, which may mean the end of globalisation. What was true last autumn may not be true today. Last September there was a report from the Swedish Agency for Growth, which deals with regional conditions for growth, Development Power throughout Sweden in 2030. One of the megatrends to 2030 addressed by the report is continued globalisation, where companies are becoming increasingly dependent on global value chains. I'm not sure they had written that way today. Madam President, I would like The report is about regional growth policy, and I would like to mention some of the proposals made by the Center Party in this report. There is a time after Corona when we have to deal with both the old problems and the new ones that are coming. In a party motion, we in the Center Party say that it is regrettable that the relocations of state jobs that have taken place have often gone to regional growth centres where there is comparatively no shortage of such jobs. In order to strengthen the labour market throughout the country, further relocations, as well as the establishment of service offices and branches, should take place not only in regional growth centres but also in rural areas of Sweden, such as those that have lost government jobs. The January agreement states, among other things, that no new authorities will be located in Stockholm during the term of office. The Rural Committee proposed that 10 000 jobs be relocated from Stockholm. Then remember that it is only a small part of the increase in government jobs that has taken place in Stockholm for a few decades. I come from Mora and live in Mora, which is a central town in northern Dalarna. Dalarna is Sweden's fourth largest county, if you did not know. Despite statements by the government and many political parties, the former Director General of the Swedish Tax Agency shut down the Mora office and moved it to Falun. To gain a distance view, the residents of northern Dalarna now have more to the tax office in Falun than the Falu residents have to Stockholm. It may not say much to those of you who do not live there, but to get a better sense of distance it is as if the Stockholms would have to go to Jönköping to meet a tax officer and then back. It gives a sense of the distances involved. Even after the latest signals from the government about not closing offices, Directors-General continue to do so. Most recently it is Rikskronafolagden who wants to close the office in Mora and move it to Falun. And that applies not only to Mora but also to other places. I think and have said it some time before: Is it that we need to develop a new programme, Axel Oxenstierna 2.0, to change Swedish government control fundamentally? The Center Party also points out in the report that entrepreneurs in Sweden's rural areas are often hampered by state pointers and significant squareness on the part of the authorities. We believe that, in addition to the task of ensuring compliance with laws and rules, authorities must also help people and businesses to do the right thing. In order to improve public authorities' services to people and businesses, the government should direct promotion missions to them and, in particular, direct training efforts to the staff to support rural businesses. We see how more and more municipalities are taking after the Rättvik model, which is working on these issues. And that should be something that the state is also taking on. Madam President, I would like Another part of this report raises questions about the state's presence throughout the country. The state has for a number of years withdrawn from large parts of the country, which we are trying to address to some extent in the January agreement. One of the points is to establish more local service offices throughout the country. That point has been negotiated, and I myself have recorded that this must not mean that real service offices should be replaced by local offices that are open a couple of hours a week. In addition, cooperation with municipalities and regions must be ensured. A citizen does not know how we in the public sector have divided things between different levels, between municipalities, regions and states. Here we need to gather activities and work together between different actors. Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants to use tax policy as a growth tool for the whole country by regionalising several parts of the state property tax. This will strengthen the level of regional decision-making and the ability of regions to pursue growth-enhancing policies on the basis of their own conditions. In the context of a major review of the tax system, we propose that the question of how tax revenues from wind and hydro power can be regionalised be examined. This is also included in the January agreement, which provides for a comprehensive tax reform to be carried out. The reform will aim to increase employment and the number of hours worked by reducing taxes on labour and entrepreneurship. It will also help to achieve climate and environmental objectives, strengthen Sweden's competitiveness, smooth economic gaps and lower marginal taxes. Fewer should pay government income tax, and by limiting the number of exemptions, the tax system should also be simplified. Madam President, I would like I have read Thorbjörn Fälldin's motions on regional policy from the 1970s, and it is surprising how much has not changed and is still valid today. If we are to break the growing regional divide that we have seen since the 1980s, the Center Party believes that consideration should be given to how political decisions affect rural areas. In order to secure rural decisions, impact assessments should therefore be carried out at national, regional and municipal level, similar to those made in relation to the environment and gender equality. We also believe that the government should review how the regional responsibility of authorities should be clarified and strengthened. Swedish authorities' actions have a major impact on regional growth. Finally, I would like to say that when we get out on the other side of the very difficult situation that the Corona virus has put us in, it will be a brighter future – although we cannot see it right now. Let me refer to a famous statesman: this is not the end. It's not even the beginning of the end. But maybe it's the end of the beginning.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-361	Madam President, I would like This speech would have been made by my party colleague Birger Lahti, but because of the circumstances I have had to jump in. I would like to thank the President and all the officials for helping me with this. We are now discussing the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 13, which deals with regional growth. This report could squeeze into a lot of things that have been neglected for decades, regardless of the color of governments. We can start by reminding ourselves of what was happening to Arbetsförmedlingen. Was it something that would have benefited regional growth if a large number of offices were to be set up to help the unemployed? Now in retrospect one can think that it was wise not to do so because after the Corona crisis we will need the offices throughout Sweden. The final report of the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development presented several proposals to improve the state's presence in rural areas in various respects. Among other things, the Committee proposed that local service activities be brought together in a new organisation and that the interaction between the authorities whose local service functions would be broken out should be regulated in the instructions of the respective authorities. In the Rural Bill on the basis of the Rural Committee's report, the government pointed out, with regard to the state's presence in rural areas, that access to state services should be ensured no matter where they live and that the current situation was unsustainable. The Government considered that a local level service organisation should be established within the State Service Centre and that the number of local service offices should also increase. That sounds good, if you ask me. The Government decided in September 2017 on a directive for a special investigator with the task of proposing, among other things, what service provision should be available at the local offices of the State Service Organisation. The investigator proposed, among other things, the opening of 27 new service offices in the country and making suggestions at places in the country where the service organisation would provide services. The new offices will be opened by 31 December 2020 and the service organisation will then have 140 service offices, as proposed. We from the Left Party really hope that these offices will be the service of the population and something that develops the countryside together with the local people. The Left Party has not raised any motions this year on regional growth, but that does not mean that there should be no policy in this area. Madam President, I would like Paragraph 4 of the report deals with the transfer of resources and production values from natural resources. I believe that regions that contribute with valuable production of hydroelectric power, for example, should be allowed to retain parts of it. It is important to promote local rural development. Although hydroelectric power, for example, generates huge sums of money, only a very small proportion of the surplus comes from hydroelectric production of municipalities. With the Energy Policy Agreement, the Government has chosen to reduce the property tax on hydropower, while at the same time there is no other solution to how to return funds to the municipalities in addition to the so-called local area compensation – also known as the district epeng. Norway has chosen another model where municipalities receive a significantly higher compensation for the negative consequences of the hydroelectric expansion. I would like the possibility of introducing a similar model in Sweden to be reviewed in the future so that a greater proportion of the profits of the power companies can be returned to the municipalities and regions where hydropower is produced. I and the Left Party would also like to see a corresponding statutory local area compensation, a district epeng, introduced in the future for wind power. The compensation that wind power companies would thus have to pay should, as is currently the case, benefit local communities. Already today, there have been calls from municipalities for voluntary community payments in various directions. However, regulation is needed in order for all the municipalities concerned to receive compensation, not just a few. We from the Left Party therefore intend to come back with proposals to the Riksdag in accordance with the above-mentioned orientation. However, I do not believe that Parliament should at present make any announcement to the government on these current motions. On the other hand, I am in favour of reservation 7 – the explanatory statement.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-370	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating regional growth. This is an area that we will undoubtedly have to debate incredibly much in the future. Regional growth is hugely important for Sweden's development, and we see that we need to provide support for companies and jobs in the situation we are in now with covid-19. Our business community is heavily exposed. There are several of us who have spoken about this here today. Thousands of entrepreneurs are struggling to save tomorrow. I've talked to an incredible number of entrepreneurs who are now seeing their life's work crumble. You don't know how to deal with tomorrow or if you dare to take the risk of reopening once the bankruptcy is there. There are an incredible number of fates, and we see it not only in Stockholm but around the country. We know what it looks like. We see record notice around the country – 18 000 have been announced during the month of March, and the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce estimates that 800 000 jobs are seriously threatened throughout the country. It will be a tremendous strain that will affect us all, whether we like it or not. The Christian Democrats' vision is that the whole of Sweden should have the conditions to grow and develop. Our growth depends on both the business environment and the environment in which people live and work. Competitive companies, good communications, attractive living and housing opportunities and access to public and commercial services are crucial for the development opportunities of regions and municipalities. Especially in these times, we need to address these issues, but we also need to have a long-term plan. Madam President, I would like Basic public services should be easily accessible to everyone in the country, and I believe that there is a need to make it easier for authorities and municipalities to cooperate on this. A good way is to set up so-called service centres in connection with the local country store or other established gathering points in the rural communities. It's very important. There are tasks that a country store can handle on behalf of the public, which more people should be aware of. In this way, the hub of the community's common life can become even stronger. In order to achieve well-functioning services throughout the country, rural and industry associations have important roles to play, both now and in the future, but not least municipalities and regions need to see these opportunities and seize them. The regulatory framework needs to be reviewed in order to increase coordination between authorities and improve interaction between public and commercial actors in order to achieve good public and commercial service across the country. We Christian Democrats have put forward in our budget option that service offices should benefit more smaller municipalities and have allocated some funds to more offices. We also believe that support for grocery stores in sparsely populated areas, which are now being expanded, could have been extended even further. For the small town, the store can be the prerequisite for so much, ranging from more services to social meetings, which also creates good conditions for the business community. Madam President, I would like After the period of exercise, when we discussed this report, we Christian Democrats have had national action. We took a position there because there is a need for a thorough investigation of the pros and cons of a model where the profits from Swedish natural resources primarily end up in the municipalities and from there are redistributed according to an established principle, rather than the revenue that currently goes to the state and the municipalities receive tax revenue only from the living people's labour income. In this context, we believe that it is worth studying the model that Norway has. There is every reason to return to that question. Finally, I would like to say that what regional growth needs now is favourable conditions for entrepreneurship, which is crucial for jobs and growth throughout the country. Through strong companies, we are also laying the foundations for a strong welfare, because without companies we have no welfare. It can feel very heavy for many entrepreneurs right now. I would like to quote to those I carry with me at difficult times. It is by Håkan Hellström, an artist who is many of us in love. I think as we go through time, all the best hasn't happened yet.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-382	Madam President, I would like In the midst of the Corona crisis, we are debating both business issues and regional growth. There are many challenges here and now, but also in the future. No one's unmoved. Rural areas are perhaps even more affected than our metropolitan regions, because a job in the countryside means much more than a job in the metropolitan regions. Today I would like to raise my eyes a little. A liberal policy for regional growth is about seeking to create the conditions for those who want to live and work in rural areas or in smaller urban areas. We will take advantage of the unique conditions for individuals' development and company competitiveness that exist in different parts of our country. I live in Värmland myself. If you live outside the three metropolitan regions, you are reminded of the difference between town and country on a daily basis. The three metropolitan regions are growing rapidly, as are the regional cities, while most of the country's municipalities have been drained of population and jobs when businesses moved or closed down. This has led to increased burdens, while public and private services have deteriorated. The basis for our prosperity is and remains entrepreneurship and economic development. Liberals want to give people and businesses all over the country opportunities to grow and develop. In this way, we take advantage of the entire Swedish development power, growth potential and employment opportunities. General efforts at national level for jobs and training and improving the business environment need to be combined with regional efforts. Madam President, I would like Although we are in the midst of the Corona crisis, we also need to look to the future. If all of Sweden is to live and grow, more jobs are needed. More jobs in growing companies mean increased tax revenues, which in turn can finance our common welfare. A generally improved business environment with reduced taxes and less bureaucracy benefits all businesses, not least those in sparsely populated areas. It creates jobs. General efforts at national level for jobs, training and an improved business environment need to be combined with regional growth efforts. Development throughout the country also requires well-functioning housing policies and well-developed commercial as well as public services in order for a region to be attractive and attract labour. In order for people and companies to want to live and operate throughout Sweden, it is important that there is also access to functioning basic services at a reasonable distance. This applies to public authorities as well as municipal and commercial services. In sparsely populated areas, service solutions based on local conditions and collaboration with entrepreneurs and civil society have the opportunity to become long-term and sustainable. Madam President, I would like We have discussed business issues in the past. I believe and am quite convinced that we need to discuss and change a lot in order to stand strong even when the Corona crisis is over, because regional growth and business issues go hand in hand. In the Corona crisis, the Liberals have been involved in developing the package of measures that I have presented. I am glad that the consensus on these packages has been great. Liberals are prepared to take more steps to save Swedish jobs and Swedish companies. As I said at the beginning of my speech, a liberal policy of regional growth seeks to create the conditions for those who want to live and work in rural areas or in smaller urban areas. Liberals want to take advantage of the unique conditions for individuals' development power and the competitiveness of companies that exist in different parts of our country. I request the approval of reservation 12.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-393	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs' report 13, which deals with regional growth policy. It is, of course, in the light of the Corona crisis that we are doing this. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for the motions and reservations to be rejected. Regional growth policy can sometimes, in my opinion, sound a little unprecist and bureaucratic, but its content is extremely important. Basically, regional growth policy is about people being able to live, live and work throughout the country. Whether you live in the East, West, South or North, you should feel that you are part of a Sweden that holds together. It is particularly important in days like these when the cohesion of our country is being put to the test. Our country, Sweden, works best when we help and support each other and have each other's back. As a stockholmer, I am extremely happy with the help we receive from various sources right now when this region is hardest hit by covid-19. But it is equally important that other parts of the country, such as the Swedish sparsely populated area, feel that their problems and difficulties are also high on the agenda here in the Swedish parliament. This report deals with a large number of motions in a wide range of areas. However, there are also other issues which are extremely important for the whole country to live and which are not dealt with in today's report, such as infrastructure and taxation issues. Exercise requests address the localisation and organisation of government agencies, commercial public services and the reversion of funds and production values from natural resources. The objective of the regional growth policy decided on in the state budget, i.e. the budget proposal for 2019, is to create development power. Local and regional competitiveness is strengthened. This creates sustainable development throughout the country. In the situation we are in today, when we are told every day how different activities and people across the country are affected and affected by the Corona virus, regional growth policy is particularly important. I don't think we can fully grasp the effect of the Corona virus today. The government and the January parties have quickly presented two emergency packages, which have been strong and balanced. At the same time, we know that there is a need for further action and a focus on smaller companies. As in regional growth policy, we need measures adapted to the different conditions in our elongated country. In these times, well-being is extremely important for maintaining service and care throughout the country. It is the welfare workers in hospitals, preschools and schools, buses and trains and police and fire stations who are the heroes of the Corona crisis. It is cleaners, transport workers, garbage collectors – in short, workers and servants – but also entrepreneurs throughout the country who are to be hailed. But it is important, Madam President, that all these heroes feel that their efforts count even when the crisis is over. That is why Sweden needs a policy that holds together, economically and socially, but also geographically, as this report is about. Madam President, I would like The starting point for regional growth policy is that there is a huge force in our country as a whole. Normally and under normal conditions, as a social democrat, I had said that our whole country, through good conditions for innovation and entrepreneurship, can continue to grow. It has also been fantastic to see how the tourism industry and the restaurant and hotel industry have grown year after year in large parts of the country. These companies would normally be assisted by a more uniform exercise of authority and equivalent and effective controls that reduce the regulatory burden across the country. This is still an important issue for us Social Democrats, which we have high on the agenda. The so-called Rättviks model is something to take after around Sweden's municipalities. However, in the shadow of the Corona crisis, it will also be particularly important to mitigate the effects on these particular entrepreneurs. They are the ones who have taken the first blow in the Swedish business community linked to the Corona crisis. If we are to make use of the plant power that exists throughout Sweden so that the whole of Sweden can grow, we also need an infrastructure, an accessibility to our entire country, a supply of competence that works from north to south and a government presence throughout the country. At the same time, we Social Democrats know that politics makes a difference. One example is the policy that has promoted regional export centres, which has proved extremely successful. It has shown that exports can actually increase throughout our country; it has done so in all counties around Sweden. Regional export centres offer the opportunity to harness and develop regional forces. With the new export strategy, the pace of this work is increasing. Madam President, I would like As regards the location of government agencies, between 2015 and 2019 the government has taken 21 decisions on relocations. The Government has also developed an investigation that deals with increased state presence in Västernorrland County, with the name "Increased state presence in Härnösand". The study has been tasked with gathering tasks corresponding to 50 years of work from different authorities to strengthen the state presence in Västernorrland County. That is a good thing, because there is a need for state presence throughout the country. In total, more than 2 000 jobs have been relocated back into the country. At the same time, we must not beat our chests. It is important that authorities move to the right places and not just to regional growth centres. We also see, as has been mentioned here before, that government services are still moving from rural to regional growth centres. This is in stark contrast to the declared will of the government. State presence in towns, suburbs and rural areas is important. It is important that government officials have different perspectives in their work. Sweden actually looks a little different depending on where in the country we are. It is also important that there are skilled jobs around our elongated country. Madam President, I would like Public and commercial services are needed, regardless of where you live in Sweden. That is why farmers' support is extremely important. It has stopped shop closures and has often been crucial for stores to remain. Regional service programmes, local service solutions and support for commercial services in rural areas are also extremely important. The Swedish Agency for Growth has found that stores that have received this support have a more positive view of the future, but it has also facilitated ownership changes and increased the willingness to invest in new stores. Madam President, I would like The Government has also decided to set up a number of service offices around Sweden. Today there are 113 in place. The budget for 2020 includes 54 million, which means new offices in Åsele, Storuman, Vansbro and Torsby. This is very welcome. To conclude, Madam President, I note that the committee has on several occasions rejected proposals for the reprogramming of water and wind resources. The rejection can be justified by the fact that the principles of state budget management must apply. We have a cost equalisation system that has the function of levelling out differences between municipalities and regions. The cost compensation system has just been investigated, and an amendment came into force on 1 January this year. There, the parameters of socio-economic disparities and the conditions of sparsely populated areas have been given greater scope. This change has played a major role in providing municipalities and regions with a level playing field for providing well-being to residents throughout the country. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say that in these times we need a strong, solidarity-based society that holds together and helps each other.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-415	Madam President, I would like Just a few moments ago, the tourism industry organization Visita presented occupancy figures for Swedish hotels. Mathias Tegnér represents Stockholm. There, Visita announced that the occupancy last Tuesday was 8.2 per cent. A normal Tuesday in March is usually in the order of 85 percent. I believe that this figure not only pinpoints the effects of the Corona crisis in Stockholm right now, but in any place in the country and how it hits jobs and businesses locally. For our part, we Moderates have presented what we think is the next step in crisis management, from the reasonable and correct that the government has done when it comes to trying to secure the financial system and enabling banks not to crisis at this point in time to switch to targeted, powerful and immediate support to literally rescue Swedish companies, so that jobs do not perish at this stage. These include, for example, the hotel industry in Stockholm and in other parts of the country. We have talked about removing employer's fees and rental costs for hotels, restaurants and shops. We have talked about share capital directly to companies and raising risk from banks, which means that small and medium-sized enterprises can actually get loan opportunities. This is important in all parts of the country. I would like to ask: Will the government return with some package in line with what, among other things, the Moderates, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and other expertise think must come now in this serious situation?
i-c34cad7256ebee42-419	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the question! The government and the January parties have presented two powerful packages to save liquidity in the Swedish business community. It has been important, correct and necessary to do so quickly and in a balanced way. It's about taking away from the companies' health pay responsibility for days 1 – 14. This is about lay-off aid. These are different types of liquidity support. It's a matter of government guarantees. It is about investments with resources for Almi and export support. At the same time, it is just as the honourable Member, Mrs Helmered, says: now there is a need for further action. Both my colleague Helene Hellmark Knutsson and the Minister for Finance have been out saying that there will be further support. The answer to Lars Helmered's question is: Yes, additional support is needed, and it is needed in the near future.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-422	Madam President, I would like It is reasonable to act to ensure that banks are not affected at this stage, but entrepreneurs generally, large and small, also point to the fact that what has been done so far does not benefit them. That's not enough. You lose a large part of your turnover. Companies can go under. Hundreds of thousands of jobs could be threatened at this point. Then we must assume our responsibilities. Mathias Tegnér has a background in commerce. The Swedish Commerce Federation has pointed out that 70 000 jobs may be lost. I believe that Mathias Tegnér's old employer and others could literally lose half or more of their turnover in the space of a few weeks. It is a free fall, with a risk of major effects. We Moderates will continue to develop concrete proposals for regional growth to secure jobs and companies in Sweden. Madam President, I would like There is also one more aspect. I am not saying this to go into polemics in any way, but I just want to raise the issue with Mathias Tegnér. His party, my party and other parties are involved in governing regions and municipalities around the country. In this context, I would like to say that you have local responsibility or, if you like, an opportunity. It can be about parking fees, payment times or land leases or opening up for outdoor cafés, as well as a wide range of other questions. I know that many municipalities have acted: Trosa, Norrtälje, Göteborg, Partille, Staffanstorp and a long line of others. However, I think we must also make a national call. I hope that more municipal representatives will make use of the opportunities they have to facilitate for entrepreneurs around the country, because this is an important contribution in this context.
i-PaVmfXBpVaF1tjNQ7ESQi6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the question or perhaps rather for the joint agreement! I can only agree. It is incredibly important that we all, both individuals, municipalities, regions and also the state, play our part. I myself come from a municipality called Tyresö. Even there, the municipality has been quick to find ways to support local business. I also believe that the municipal companies can make a big difference because they are often landlords of many small local companies. Lars Helmered is absolutely right: these are extremely important issues. Just as Lars Helmered told me, I myself have a background in Swedish Commerce. I have many entrepreneurs close to me, and I hear exactly the same thing as Mrs Helmered, that is to say that more action is needed. Then it is important that we do not make party politics out of today's situation. Measures are needed – I and Lars Hjälmered know that, and the government knows that too. They must come soon, but they must also be balanced. I am sure that the government will come up with more proposals in the near future to save Swedish business. But what Sweden needs right now is cooperation, cohesion and consensus – not political conflict. That is why I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Lars Helmered for the good tone of the debate today.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-431	Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis is serious. I think about how the health care system works hard to receive seriously ill people, how many people are sick and at home and how many people work from home and actively contribute to stopping the spread of the disease. Take care of yourselves and take care of each other! Madam President, I would like We are here to debate the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on regional growth policy. I support the committee's proposal. At the moment, the industry is hard hit by the crisis. Large and normally safe companies notice. Small entrepreneurs are hard hit. All kinds of companies are in acute crisis in some way. There are industries that have managed well so far, but new challenges come every day. The report is called Regional Growth Policy. Perhaps the word for growth does not link so well with our economy these days, but is more about the pandemic. But now the policy is about mitigating the effects of the crisis. It is important to ensure that as many companies as possible can overwinter and grow strong again when the pandemic settles. Unfortunately, we will see repercussions on the national economy for a long time to come. At the same time, we have a strong economy in Sweden, and therefore the government and parliament can make much needed investments in healthcare, municipalities and regions, companies and civil society. Some initiatives have already entered into force. A second is still being prepared at the Government Office. It is not time to complain now that things are going too slowly. It's actually going very fast. We have a very broad political agreement to act. This shows, not least, the debate today. Many entrepreneurs are very worried. I would like to address you directly and say: Channel your good proposals through your organisations so that they really come to the government! We have no time for debate and accusations. Take help and advice, and try to understand what support you can use! Stay in touch with your bank and your accountant! My municipality of residence Uppsala has acted exemplaryly. Together with Uppsala Innovation Center, the municipality offers free advice and guidance to small businesses for up to five hours with experts in a number of areas of expertise. It's a business case at local level. Uppsala Municipality has also decided to help the business community and provides good information. I hope that more municipalities will do as Uppsala does. Rural entrepreneurs are important to our country. The other day, the LRF said that the food chain has managed quite well so far, except for the restaurant industry. However, Sweden's farmers will face major problems when seasonal labour, which usually comes from other countries, is lacking. There is an opportunity here for 8,000 people to get seasonal jobs. The LRF has highlighted that the government could make it easier for laid-off and unemployed people to get jobs in the green sector. We need to resolve crises together. Madam President, I would like Today's topic is regional policy, and it is a very important area. As a spokesperson of the Green Party's rural policy, I see that rural and regional policy has become both more important and more enjoyable in recent years. The issues are more and more priorities. When I met representatives of the Inland uprising when they visited the Riksdag, they said: The Green Party actually has a pretty good rural programme. You should talk more about it. The environmental party's policy for rural and regional development can be summarised in five points: Investing in housing and workplaces Developing rural areas as a driver for sustainable development in energy, food and living nature 中 focus on fossil-free communications, trains, public transport and environmental vehicles Supporting small businesses investing in the digitisation of rural development. In these times of crisis, we see how important broadband networks are for Sweden to stay on its feet when a lot of people work from home. The reality that many in the cities are now seeing lives with our rural people on a daily basis. We must ensure that broadband works. The report deals with how the government ensures that state authorities are located in places other than Stockholm. The Rural Committee contributed 75 proposals which are now being implemented quite extensively, I think. I visited SGU, Sweden's geological survey, at their office in Malå last summer. Some authorities are located in several locations. SGU's head office is located in Uppsala. The SGU has introduced freedom of choice for those employed so that they can choose their location. It sounds very positive, but it seems in the wrong direction. More of SGU's geologists and administrators should actually work in Malå. That would do a great deal for the town. SGU's core archive is recently expanded with 10,000 square meters, and it is also located in Malå. There is a need for a clear commitment in the field of economic policy, which is that all companies that want to explore for minerals must first look for known knowledge in SGU's archives. It is a proposal that could provide valuable jobs and economic development in a small municipality of Norrland, while it has huge environmental benefits. The rural areas of Sweden are important for us to be able to carry out the climate transition. At the local level, jobs and opportunities for smart industrial start-ups are created. But the value would increase even more with long-term secured financial improvement opportunities for municipalities. The municipalities in Norrland take a very large responsibility for the base of Sweden's energy supply. They have done so for a long time in terms of hydroelectric power, and they account for 80% of the expansion of wind power up to 2022. The Environmental Party wants the property tax for wind power to go to the municipalities where wind power is located. We also want to see if it is possible to make the corresponding effort for hydropower. Wind power in Sweden is facing a major expansion. During the period 2017 – 2022 it will be expanded with 27 terawatt hours throughout Sweden, and 80 per cent will be located in Norrlandslänen. It is clear that municipal property tax would benefit the municipalities where wind power is built. Swedish Vindenergi has a calculation of how much a municipal property tax would be charged with 0.67 öre per kilowatt hour produced. They concluded that it could be SEK 181 million throughout Sweden and more than SEK 152 million in Norrland. In Norrbotten, the expansion is concentrated in the municipality of Piteå. They could receive 55 million dollars annually. This corresponds roughly to Piteås' costs for emergency services. Madam President, I would like Climate investment support Climate change and industrial life are important initiatives that strengthen companies around our country. These are important initiatives for regional growth. Climate and rural policy can really go hand in hand.
i-c34cad7256ebee42-457	Madam President, I would like After my speech, the Secretary of the Chamber drew attention to the fact that I had asked for a different reservation from my intention. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Secretary of Chamber for his attention. I therefore withdraw my request for the approval of Amendment No 4 and, instead, I would like to endorse Amendment No 5 in paragraph 4.
