i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-19	Madam President, I would like Hampus Hagman has asked me whether today I and the government can rule out the reintroduction of property tax. Changes in tax rules must always be handled with great care and care about the economic conditions of individuals. There were problems with the previous property tax, but there are also problems with how the current property tax works and how it has affected city and country. One problem with today's property tax, introduced by the alliance government, is that it is regressive. This means that the fee will be lower in relation to the value of the property the higher this value is. The property fee thus has a special discount for high-income earners – it is usually those who live in expensive villas. The transition to property tax also meant large tax reductions for homeowners in more wealthy municipalities such as Danderyd, Kungsbacka and Vellinge, while tax collection has increased mainly in rural municipalities such as Kiruna, Tomelilla and Mullsjö. With the agreement of the Anuari, there is an agreement on a tax reform. It shall, inter alia, contribute to improving the functioning of the housing market. At this stage, some details of the tax reform have not been frozen.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-22	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Finance. I have asked Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson if she can rule out the reintroduction of property tax. I had hoped for a clear yes– the reintroduction of property tax is out of the question. But that is not the answer we are getting. Instead, Magdalena Andersson answers that the January parties have an agreement on a tax reform and that no details are currently locked. The reintroduction of property tax is therefore not excluded. For millions of Swedes, this means uncertainty about the future private economy. The old property tax was repellent and was abolished on very good grounds. The tax was unpredictable and arbitrary. Dwellings were taxed on an ongoing basis regardless of whether there was any current income to be paid with. As a result of the tax, many people experienced growing anxiety about the possibility of staying in their home. The property tax contributed to a socio-economic segregation when those who could not afford the tax in residential areas with a growing popularity were forced to move. Widows, widowers, and single parents were forced to leave their homes. From the Christian Democrats, the message is that the property tax belongs in the dump of history and will stay there. We will oppose any attempt to reintroduce it. Madam President, I would like The reintroduction of property tax would have major consequences for many people. There are different calculations-- it always does. However, a report from SNS Konjunkturråd, which proposes property tax on both houses and residences, notes that a small house owner in a big city would receive a tax increase of approximately SEK 31,000 a year, and a tenant-owner would receive a tax increase of more than SEK 36,000 a year. It is therefore more than a gross monthly salary in tax increases each year for an average wage earner. On some it sounds like the property tax is a natural tax, because it is stable and is a safe source of income for the state. It's a tax base that can't move. But that reasoning focuses entirely on the system and not at all on the individual. If you are a pensioner, a high wage earner, a single parent or a low income earner, it does not matter at all. With a re-imposed property tax, the tax is increased by tens of thousands of SEK per year, regardless of whether you can pay this or not. But there are those who have thought of solutions to that problem as well. The re-starting commission of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce is among those who have proposed a re-imposed property tax. They write in their report, which was released just a few weeks ago, that those who cannot afford to pay can take out loans to pay the tax. For me, it's a concept that's provocative enough to scrap the whole idea right away. I wonder, Madam President, whether the Minister for Finance and the Government do not agree with this. What other solutions does the Minister of Finance envisage in order to ensure that low-income earners are not forced to move if property tax is reintroduced?
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-29	Madam President, I would like I think it is important that we, as politicians, take responsibility for not spreading unnecessary concern. The housing in which you live is extremely important to the vast majority of people. There are a lot of people who do not want to move if they like their accommodation. In Sweden, you live on average for quite a long time in your accommodation compared to what it is like in many other countries. Hampus Hagman and all of us politicians are responsible for not spreading anxiety unnecessarily. I think that Hampus Hagman, with the figures he comes with, is unnecessarily spreading concern. The first thing I say in my interpellation response is that any changes to tax rules must always be handled with great care and care about the economic conditions of individuals. This is one of the important starting points that I have on my work, not least with regard to housing taxation. When we talk about the property tax that existed before, it is important to say that there was a block that meant that you didn't have to pay more than a certain share of your income in property tax. So there was a special barrier precisely so that low-income workers would not have to move. It is important not to forget this when discussing the previous tax. I have said that I am not ruling out anything when we start discussing tax reform. If we are to undertake a major overhaul of the entire tax system, we cannot begin such work of excluding certain elements. If Hampus Hagman had asked me whether I could rule out having a tax on smiles, moon trips or slippers, he would therefore have received the same answer, namely that I am not ruling out anything at the beginning of such a great review. It's not a way to move forward. Hampus Hagman says that this is an answer that looks at the system and not at the individual person. I find it a little difficult to read this out of my answer, because I start by talking precisely about the importance of caring for the individual's economic conditions. I note, however, that as the system is constructed today, which is essentially the Christian Democrats' system, there is a great deal of concern for the individual high-income earners. What has happened in the years that the Christian Democrats' system has worked is that those who live in expensive villas in our big cities have not received any tax increase without a tax reduction. If I am right, both Hampus Hagman and I live in villas that do not receive a tax increase when doing the retaxation values, while those who have lower incomes – the single mother in Laxå, the pensioner couple who live in a small house in Huskvarna or the early pensioner in Dorotea – have, however, received tax increases on the property. Is that fair, says Hampus Hagman? Hampus Hagman and I will not get any tax increase, but those who live in small houses in the country and often have low incomes will get high taxes. Why is that right?
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-37	Madam President, I would like There are a number of different actors who have proposed the reintroduction of property tax in recent years, such as think tanks and the Council of Finance Policy. When the Minister of Finance says that it is important not to spread unnecessary concerns, I fully agree, and that is why I wish the Minister of Finance could clearly say that this is out of the question, because it would have major negative consequences for individuals – for low income earners, for widows, for widowers and for many others. These bodies do not propose taxes on smiles, slippers or moon trips, and that is why I am not asking about it. They are proposing a concrete tax that has existed in the past, and I would like to know what the Swedish Minister for Finance says on this matter. I would like to dwell a little on the statement that rural municipalities such as Kiruna, Tomelilla and Mullsjö, mentioned in the reply, have received an increase in tax collection after the property tax was removed. If you compare today's property tax with what it would have looked like today if the property tax were still in place, you can see that it is a claim that is lame. The Taxpayers' Association has reviewed all municipalities' tax values and shows that in all municipalities the old property tax had paid a higher cost than today's property tax. In every municipality the tax charge would have been higher if the tax had remained. It is important to bear in mind, Madam President, when the Minister for Finance claims that the low income in rural areas has been disadvantaged by the removal of the property tax. There were two important points in removing the old property tax and replacing it with a fee. The first point was to reduce the current high tax that people had to pay regardless of whether they had current income or not. The second and at least equally important point was to make the cost more predictable. In the old system, which the Minister of Finance cannot therefore exclude, the amount of the tax was determined by the value of the dwelling. This meant that sales in a residential area gave higher taxes for everyone in the area. Of course, what your neighbor sells his home for says very little about what you can afford to pay in taxes. Every three years a real estate tax is carried out for all small houses. The latest was in 2018 and was based on sales in the previous years. This raised the rateable values by an average of 29 per cent in the country. In the old system, this would have led to tax increases that cannot be classified as anything other than a tax shock. With the new system, this passed almost unnoticed. Differently, in the old system, pensioners and single parents had been forced out of their homes. Thanks to the abolition of the old property tax, this did not happen.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-44	Madam President, I would like It could have been worse. It is Hampus Hagman's response to the single mother who received an increased property fee, while Hampus Hagman, me and all the home owners in Danderyd, Vellinge, Täby and other locations with high rates did not receive a higher fee. Hampus Hagman still hasn't answered if he thinks it's fair. Hampus Hagman says that it is unfair that what the neighbour sells his villa should affect what you should pay in tax and that we should not have it. Hampus Hagman has abolished this for himself, for me and for others who can afford to buy more expensive villas. But it is still for the single mother in Laxå, the pensioner couple in Huskvarna and the early pensioner in Dorotea. Some people are not supposed to have it like that, while those with lower incomes are still living in that world. This is the result of the Christian Democrats' reform. Tell me why it's fair, Hampus Hagman!
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-47	Madam President, I would like Again, no one in Sweden pays a higher property fee today than it would have paid if the old property tax had remained. Not in any municipality today is the fee higher than it would have been if the old system of the Social Democrats had remained. The fact remains, Madam President, that if the property tax were to be reintroduced, which unfortunately the Minister for Finance cannot rule out, pensioners and people on low incomes would be hit very hard. But it would also affect people with ordinary incomes. If we look at small houses with tax values of over SEK 4 million, many of which are located in Gothenburg and Stockholm, where I and the Finance Minister live, we see that four out of ten homeowners have a monthly salary of less than SEK 29 000 before tax. This isn't about any millionaires. This is not about those who previously paid military tax. This isn't about any luxury villas. This is about ordinary people who are working hard and who cannot afford large and unpredictable tax increases. It is such a system that I want the Minister for Finance to say clearly and clearly that will not be reintroduced, and the Swedish people can be safe with that. However, we do not receive this information from the Minister for Finance, and I regret that.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-52	Madam President, I would like This is Hampus Hagman's fault. Because that was the first thing I said: No, there is no need to worry about unpredictable and rapid tax increases. I say that changes to tax rules and possible changes to tax rules must always be handled with great care and care about the economic conditions of individuals. There's Hampus Hagman's answer. But when it comes to how the system works here and now, Hampus Hagman is unanswered. He calls me to Parliament to discuss theoretical proposals coming from private organisations, but with regard to the injustices that exist here and now in the system that Hampus Hagman's Christian Democrats have created, he is unanswered. Why should Hampus Hagman and I not be affected when the property rises in value while ordinary people with low incomes living in rural and sparsely populated areas should still have all the conditions that Hampus Hagman thinks is so unfair to me and him? That is the Christian Democrats' policy. I'm not impressed.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-55	Madam President, I would like Lorena Delgado Varas has asked me when to ensure that AP funds' investments are sustainable and comply with the Paris Agreement and our environmental and climate goals, as well as the consequences of investing in environmentally damaging activities. Lorena Delgado Varas has also asked me how we should ensure that people's savings in banks do not go to environmentally damaging activities but comply with the Paris Agreement and our environmental and climate objectives, and what consequences it will have for banks when this is not followed. The government is pursuing an ambitious policy to promote sustainable financial markets. As regards the AP Funds, since 1 January 2019 the Act places higher demands on the First – Fourth AP Fund to act exemplary from a sustainability perspective. Previously, it was only expressed in the preparatory work that AP funds should take environmental and ethical considerations into account in investment operations, so with the new legal requirement, governance of sustainability issues in management has been modernised and strengthened. Particular attention should be paid to how sustainable development can be promoted and that investments in our pension funds should be in line with the international conventions that Sweden has signed. As a result of this year's evaluation, we can note that the AP Funds have further developed their carbon reporting to include how much of the year's change in carbon intensity comes from the funds having changed their portfolio mix and how much they come from reduced emissions from the companies in the portfolio. Several AP funds have also clarified their strategies regarding the Paris Agreement, and all funds are continuously working to reduce the carbon footprint of their portfolios. The First AP Fund has also decided to completely deinvest in companies with fossil fuel operations. A tt also the Seventh AP Fund shall be subject to the new sustainability requirement applicable to the First – Fourth AP Fund has been proposed in a memorandum that has been referred. That question is now being prepared within the Government Office. The Government welcomes the work of the AP Funds and the Joint Ethical Council to integrate sustainability issues into the administration. This is in line with the First – Fourth AP Fund's new objective of exemplary management. In the evaluation of AP Funds' activities until 2020, which will be submitted to the Riksdag by 1 June 2021, the new investment rules will also be evaluated as to whether investments in fossil energy will be reduced. Of course, it is not only the AP funds that need to contribute in order for us to succeed in the transition to a sustainable real economy, but also our savings in funds and banks are an important part of the transition. In this context, I would like to emphasise the importance of international cooperation. In particular, EU work plays an important role as a large part of the financial regulations are harmonised within the EU, not least in the banking sector. A concrete result of EU work, where Sweden has been one of the most driving countries, is the legal requirements on what information managers and financial advisors must provide on how to integrate sustainability into the business. The requirements will improve sustainability information but also make it easier to compare between different managers and advisors. The new requirements will apply from the first quarter of 2021. In addition, in June 2019 the EU adopted amendments to the banks' accounting requirements which mean that all major banks listed in a trading venue from 2022 will have to account for their sustainability risks. Another important step forward is the common taxonomy developed by the EU. Taxonomy will make it easier to identify and implement environmentally sustainable investments. In addition, the Government has taken several measures nationally to accelerate the development of a sustainable financial market in Sweden. A particularly important measure in this context is that Finansinspektionen should work to ensure that the financial system contributes to sustainable development. Only in April this year, the Government gave Finansinspektionen a new assignment to monitor financial market participants' climate reporting and how loans and investments relate to the Paris Agreement's 1.5-degree target. The Government also provides project support to the competence centre for sustainable financing that has the task of contributing to the development of a sustainable financial market internationally, the Stockholm Sustainable Finance Centre. According to Finansinspektionen, Swedish banks have spent more resources on sustainability in recent years, but there is scope for improvements regarding both reporting and integration of sustainability in operations. Since it may be difficult to assess an investment's impact on opportunities for sustainable development, both transparency and regulation have an important role to play. The new assignment to Finansinspektionen will hopefully contribute to improvements in these areas and provide an important basis for future work, because we will need to do more. Emissions are not decreasing at the pace they need to achieve our climate commitments. Climate change poses a significant risk, including to the economy and the financial system. It continues to work to ensure that the financial system contributes to sustainable development.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-66	Madam President, I would like When the Minister describes the policy pursued to promote sustainable markets, I am surprised by the inaction. Yes, the law was amended in January 2019 so that the First – Fourth AP Fund would act exemplaryly from a sustainability perspective. But the changes are not clear enough. The changes will not lead to the objectives of the Paris Agreement, because the truth is that the objectives of yield are being overruled over man, over the environment and over the climate. It's not gonna make any sense. We will not achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement if we do not dare to challenge it, unless we dare to demand that people, the environment and climate be equated with targets of yield. Since the government chose not to make clear demands, the AP funds have continued to invest in fossil activities. Yes, the First Swedish National Pension Fund has now made a decision to invest in companies with fossil fuel operations, but this after criticism. The truth is that we are in the midst of a burning climate crisis, where the use of fossil fuels is the main cause of greenhouse gas emissions. In the midst of all of this, AP funds choose to use our money to invest in climate-conspicuous operations. It's not small sums we're talking about-- over 16 billion went to fossil companies. This was before the First AP Fund made its decision. In its January report, the Swedish Environmental Protection Association describes that if all fossil reserves belonging to the 89 fossil companies that the First – Fourth AP Fund has investments in would be incinerated, 185 billion tons of greenhouse gases would be released. It is also the case that the Second, Third and Fourth AP Fund retains fossil investments and believes that they will affect companies to reduce emissions. But many of these companies have as their business model to produce fossil fuels, so how can that be done? And how is that to happen quickly enough? Why take so many extra steps when we have already decided to comply with the Paris Agreement? Why not make the work easier for the companies that invest our common money? Why not recognize and clearly show that fossil activities are not long-term? Why not be clear about the remaining AP funds? The Minister mentioned the memo that was sent in, but I think that one can be much clearer than handing over responsibility to the AP funds themselves. We from the Left Party suggested, among other things, that the AP funds should not make new investments in coal, oil or fossil gas, that the AP funds should phase out existing investments in the fossil industry within five years and that all AP funds should have quantitative targets for investments in renewable energy. I think we need clarity here. We have seen this both on the climate issue and on the issue of human rights.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-74	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lorena Delgado Varas, for a very good question. I am pleased that the honourable Member asked this question, because if there is one area in which the government I represent has made a huge difference, it is in the field of financial markets. No government in Sweden's history has ever been close to doing as much as this government has done for a sustainable financial market. It is not for nothing that Sweden now has a world reputation when it comes to being a leader in the transformation of the financial market to sustainability. Our representatives from government and government agencies are now involved in work around the world to share our experiences and how we have been able to get so far in such a short time when it comes to changing the financial market. The financial market is now undergoing a huge change of pace, both public AP funds and other pension funds and private capital. This is not for nothing, but because of all the decisions taken by this government. It is, I think, very dangerous to do as Lorena Delgado Varas does in the interpellation and in his post now – to put returns against sustainability and say that it is a choice we have to make. We will either invest the money sustainably or get a return on our current and future pensioners. I really do not see it that way, but just the opposite. It is only by increasing the sustainability of the administration that we will be able to have a return in the future. It is through sustainable investment that Swedish pensioners will get the best out and receive the highest possible pensions in the future. I therefore think it is a fundamental mistake to say that this is a choice we must make. On the contrary, I would like to say that if the government had not done this solid work and had so much to happen in such a short time, we would have risked future pensioners' returns – the pensions on which we should all live in the future. There is also a misconception in Lorena Delgado Vara's reasoning when she says that the money now in fossil fuels in the AP funds is based on active investments now. What has happened is that the total capital has grown very strongly, which is positive for future and current pensioners. But this has caused the small fossil parts to grow in connection with this. So it is not because of direct investment that there is money in fossil fuels. It is important to note that the AP funds that the Swedish people have together comprise SEK 1,800 billion. It's a huge capital. The money spoken of by Lorena Delgado Varas thus represents less than 1 per cent of that capital. That is not to say in any way that we are satisfied or that we think that this is enough. There has been a huge improvement and a huge improvement will continue to be needed. Of course, we will ensure that we invest our capital in line with the agreements that Sweden has signed. And that is exactly what the legislation we got in place on 1 January 2019 says. We will invest our capital exemplaryly and in line with the agreements Sweden has signed, such as Agenda 2030 and the Paris Agreement. A change is now taking place at a rapid pace. I think it is a bit difficult to break down that Lorena Delgado Varas can already decide whether or not we will achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement and whether the capital of the Swedish people is in line with the Paris Agreement. There is now a very rapid transition process. We have decided that we will make an evaluation of the investments in 2020, which will be delivered to the Riksdag in 2021. Then we will have a better basis and really be able to see how fast the change is going. I think that Lorena Delgado Varas should perhaps also wait with her evaluation until we have done the official evaluation and can see how fast things are progressing.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-83	Madam President, I would like I want to correct something the Minister said. I have not said that the environment, climate and human beings should take precedence over yields without them being equated. You can think about what the results are. It will, of course, produce the result that pensioners receive the income they need for their pensions, while respecting people, the environment and the climate. It will, of course, lead to renewable investment and investment that respects human rights. And it will stop investment in such activities that we do not want. The Minister further believes that no government has done so much. At the same time, one can say that the information and knowledge available at this time is great, and the research clearly shows that we need to take very clear steps. So the truth is that I expect more of this government than I expected from previous right-wing governments. One thing that upsets me when we talk about climate, conversion and investment is the lack of insight or invisibility of what is happening around these investments. The Minister mentioned, among other things, that it is not a large sum that goes to fossil investment. The truth is, however, that this small sum means a great deal in the areas where those investments are made. This affects the local population very hard. What we report as billions or millions on paper here means sickness, poverty and death there. I wrote this interpellation after reading the news about the company Nornickel in Siberia. They had released 20,000 gallons [20,000 L] of diesel into water supplies linked to the Kara Sea, and larger land areas were affected. This threatened the stocks of fish, birds and reindeer to the west of Tajmyr, causing great concern to the indigenous peoples, who depend on the reindeer for their livelihood. Nornickel was already one of the major emitters in Russia. They are notorious for their environmentally damaging activities. Despite this, the seventh AP Fund and several major banks choose to invest in the company. In the Nature Protection Association's January report, we can read about several investments that have contributed to a great deal of ill health in the local population. This applies, for example, to Sasol in South Africa, the single entity that emits the most greenhouse gases in the world. The local population becomes ill and dies prematurely due to water and air pollution. Similar examples exist from Asia and Latin America. I think it is important not to reduce the destruction and ill-health of the local population where these investments are made. For us it may be a figure on a piece of paper, but for them it means the difference between life and death. In addition, the funds continue to invest money in tax havens. This is money that can be linked to environmentally damaging activities, and we certainly have no transparency there. We believe on the Left side that the AP funds should simply not invest in companies that use tax havens to avoid taxation.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-90	Madam President, I would like It is today, as I have said, less than 1 per cent of AP funds' capital that goes to the type of investment mentioned by Lorena Delgado Varas. These investments are mainly due to the fact that they have invested in broad, global index funds, not because they have been selected and invested directly in them. Lorena Delgado Varas may have missed the fact that I am not saying that this is some kind of final limit and that we have now arrived. Clearly, we need to continue working to convert both private and public capital into sustainability. On the other hand, Lorena Delgado Varas enters an open door when she wants returns to be equated with environmental requirements. That is exactly what we have done in the legislation. We have said that the funds should be invested exemplaryly and at the same time yield returns. They will be invested in accordance with the international conventions that Sweden has signed but also provide good pensions for future and current pensioners. It is important that we, from a political point of view, do everything we can to reverse investment so that it goes to what is sustainable, for example for the reasons mentioned by Lorena Delgado Varas. Nor do we want our public capital to result in environmental degradation in other countries or to destroy opportunities for the local population. That is also why we have made so many and so great efforts throughout the time that I have been in the government and minister of finance markets. The first thing we did was to establish a completely new objective: that the financial system and fiscal policy should contribute to sustainable development. Such a goal has never existed before in Swedish political history. That is now the goal that our authorities are working towards – to ensure that the financial system contributes to sustainable development. We also pushed through world-unique legislation, where Sweden became one of the first countries in the world with a law on information for investors about how fund managers apply sustainability accounting and sustainability work to their portfolios, so that we could make decisions about the most sustainable direction for our money. We have asked the international eco-label Swan, the Nordic Swan, to also label funds. Anyone who wants to invest their money in a sustainable way can now choose the best funds, which are now also impartially audited. It has highlighted those who are absolutely the best on the market. We have promoted the market for green bonds, which is growing enormously rapidly in Sweden and is also an important part of the green financial market. There, Sweden stands out internationally by being among the countries with by far the largest issue of green bonds, i.e. loans to carry out green investments in our country. Only the day before yesterday, Tuesday, Sweden issued its first green government bond. It comprises SEK 20 billion. It was oversubscribed twice, so there was a lot of interest in buying it. It gave an extremely favourable interest rate: in principle, Sweden pays no interest at all on the money we borrow to make green investments, even on the part of the state. We have also made high demands on the premium pension system. In order for you to even be able to enter the system and offer your services to Swedish pension savers, you need to have a sustainability aspect in your administration. Now the Seventh AP Fund is also being included in the goal we have set for the other AP funds. On point after point, step by step, we turn the financial market into a green direction. And I can tell. There's a lot going on. It is a tremendously fast transition that is now taking place in Sweden. In fact, we are a country that stands out in that we are now taking major steps to make investment a sustainable society and a part of a sustainable world. I am extremely proud of the work that I have done and what we have done so far. Of course, there is more to do, and of course I will continue to work every day that I am Minister for Finance to get rid of fossil investment and to invest in what is sustainable for the future. But it takes time to reschedule a large market.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-102	Madam President, I would like . Exemplified is not the same thing as being equal. I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the problem of placing the responsibility for our state investment with the individual. I think it's very important that the government in this case points with the whole hand. We see that emissions do not decrease at the rate they should in order to stay within a sustainable framework. Sweden and other industrialised countries have more responsibility for what the climate looks like today. We cannot renounce historical responsibility or colonial responsibility. That is why it is particularly important that we take great responsibility here. We should go ahead and reduce our emissions faster than the developing countries, which need space for development. The financial market has a central role to play in redirecting investment towards sustainable operations and ensuring that we achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. I believe that several financial market players have begun to realise that there are great risks of investment in fossil fuels, but it would be good if the government made this clear, so that financial institutions do not have to worry unnecessarily when they invest. Finally, I would like to say that, now that society is starting up after the Corona, it must be a restart that saves the climate and respects human rights. Our money must be part of the solution. It is time for all AP funds and the financial market to withdraw from fossil investment and for the government to closely monitor their compliance with the Paris Agreement. Having said that, I would also like to say: stop Preemraff, stop government investment in anti-climate activities and implement the Paris Agreement clearly fully!
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-109	Madam President, I would like Of course, not all the responsibility lies with the individual, but we as individuals can also do our part in investing our money in a good way that means positive investments for the future. In this context, it is important to remember that the investments we are making today determine what future we will have tomorrow and in ten years' time. That is why we are in an incredibly intensive position on the part of the government to steer precisely towards sustainable investment. It is gratifying, and I hope that Lorena Delgado Varas will also be pleased with this, that it will have a tremendously clear effect. We can see that. After the first year of the new legislation on the AP Funds, a study has been carried out on the carbon intensity, i.e. the carbon footprint of the funds. Looking at the footprint in terms of the total CO2 emissions of the stock portfolios you have, you can see that it decreased by 9% in one year, and that is only the first year of this legislation in place. It is a higher rate of reduction than the assessors have indicated as necessary for us to achieve our climate targets. Even in society as a whole, we can see that the green policies we have implemented have an effect. It has a great effect. The first quarter of this year, from January to March, emissions decreased by 8.1 per cent in Sweden, even though the economy grew – much because we have made sure to charge for the emissions made in the heating and electricity sector. We're pushing on hugely hard. We've done a lot. We have very many proposals that we are now implementing. We will work hard until all investments in our society are sustainable. We are a leader in reaching the Paris Agreement. For the third year in a row, the global environmental movements have made Sweden the top among all countries in terms of climate action and climate policy. We think this is an important issue. I hope that Lorena Delgado Varas will continue to ask questions about this, because it is a subject that I am happy to talk about and where I am very proud of what we have achieved. No government has ever done as much for a green financial market as mine.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-116	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me three questions: whether I have made concrete demands in the new aid strategy for Palestine in order for the Palestinian Authority to stop encouraging violence against civilian Israelis, whether the government and I have called for democracy and whether the government has demanded the cessation of support for terror by the Palestinian Authority, including the cessation of paid terrorists. Both myself and other ministers have answered questions and interpellations in these and neighbouring issues in the past. Let me therefore be very clear. Does the government reject terrorism? Yes, unambiguously and in every context. There is no justification for terrorism. Does the government reject terrorism in Israel and Palestine? Yeah, just as sure as that. Sweden stands up for Israel's legitimate security needs. The government unequivocally condemns terrorism and those who question Israel's right to exist within safe and recognised borders. The PLO also rejected terrorism as early as 1988. The President of Palestine reiterated at the UN Security Council on 11 February last that the Palestinians should not resort to violence in their efforts to achieve peace. It is a commitment that Palestine has made in the framework of the Oslo process and which we stand by the need to comply with. We never accept terrorism. We therefore do not accept either that the Palestinian Authority or others glorify people who have committed terrorist acts. When this has happened, we have reacted decisively. Sweden will never support or excuse people being hailed for committing terrorist acts. Does Sweden support payments of salary to persons who have committed terrorist acts or to their families? No. Sweden does not provide budget support to Palestine and thus does not contribute to payments to Palestinian prisoners or their families, regardless of the crimes for which they were convicted. On the other hand, we cannot call on Palestine to make no contribution whatsoever to the families of prisoners. Receiving certain grants can be about survival in a society where few safety nets exist. Since 1948, hundreds of thousands of Palestinians have been in Israeli prisons despite the fact that under the Fourth Geneva Convention it is forbidden to keep people from occupied areas imprisoned on the territory of the occupying power. The issue concerns and involves large parts of Palestinian society and is closely linked to the highly polarised conflict. Israel's occupation of Palestine creates every day considerable obstacles in people's lives, in their ability to move freely, to run their businesses or to take care of their land and their houses. More recently, the violence of settlers and the demolitions have increased. The government's efforts towards democracy are reflected in development cooperation with Palestine. Our new development cooperation strategy with Palestine has a strong focus on democracy, human rights, gender equality and the rule of law in order to improve the conditions for democratic development and respect for human rights. These are central components of our support for Palestinian state-building. The strategy shall contribute to reducing poverty in the country and contribute to a two-state solution based on established international parameters. In addition to democracy and human rights, the strategy includes continued activities in the fields of environment and climate, including economic development and inclusive peace. Our support goes to both Palestinian and Israeli actors who want to promote peace and sustainable development. According to the new strategy, Sida will consistently strive to strengthen the conditions for accountability and accountability and contribute to strengthening the conditions for and conduct of democratic, free and fair Palestinian elections, including in East Jerusalem. Sweden continues to stand up for democratic principles and human rights, especially when challenged. The fact that shortcomings can be identified in these areas is the background to this focus on aid. We must continue to support the forces that have the will and ability to contribute to democracy and respect for human rights.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-130	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The background to this is that several countries have recently frozen or reduced aid to the Palestinian Authority due to data on strong corruption and funds being spent on paid terrorists.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-133	It is six years since Sweden recognised Palestine. Apart from the fact that the government then said it wanted to provide support for the moderate forces in Palestine, it would also demand that Palestine combat corruption, increase women's influence, distance itself clearly from violence and respect political rights. We could call it a demand for democracy. The government has this year withdrawn Sweden's aid to Cambodia on the grounds that the interest in democracy is weak and that the country has developed in an increasingly authoritarian direction in recent years. It is good that the Minister for Development and the Government have taken this initiative. Let me remind you, however, that there have not been free elections in Palestine in 15 years. Abbas's mandate expired in 2009, but he is still in power eleven years later. During this time, various prime ministers have been appointed but without free elections. That is probably one reason why the Palestinian Authority has developed in an increasingly authoritarian direction. Madam President, I would like In February this year, the government decided to reduce aid to Tanzania due to negative developments in human rights and democracy. Harder hands on LGBTQ people and dwindling democratic space were then given as a reason. In December, the government presented its own report on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Palestine. It revealed major shortcomings in freedom of expression and media and in the enjoyment of human rights by LGBTQ people. There is torture, executions, violence against women and discriminatory family and criminal law. Furthermore, it appears that the democratic deficit is high and that it is exacerbated by the intra-Palestinian split between the government party Fatah which governs the West Bank and Hamas which governs Gaza. The report also notes that no national elections have been held since 2006 and that civil society is relatively strong, but shows a shrinking democratic development. Nevertheless, everything seems to continue as usual on the part of the government. Where are the limits of the Government and the Government? Have you even made any demands in the new agreement with the Palestinian Authority? Are there, for example, any concrete demands to stop encouraging violence against civil Israelis and democracy? How far will it go before the government takes action?
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-140	Madam President, I would like The financial assistance that Sweden provides to the Palestinian Authority has been and is a major and important issue. Despite several reports of corruption in the Palestinian Authority and the use of aid for violence and anti-Semitic propaganda, the government continues without blinking to give money, a lot of money in addition – this despite the fact that several countries, including the Netherlands and Denmark, have frozen or reduced their aid. During the year, we have heard the Minister for Development say that Sweden will reduce aid to Tanzania. Why? Well, the government has assessed Tanzania as having a negative development in terms of democracy and human rights. What about democratic development and human rights in Palestine? Let's start with President Abbas. He's been in power for 15 years. Is it because he is overly popular and has won every election? No, because President Abbas has not held a single election. In my view, therefore, this is a dictatorship. When the government decided in October 2014 on a strategy for Palestinian aid in 2015 – 2019, the document stated that Swedish efforts were expected to lead to, among other things, strengthened, more transparent and democratically managed public Palestinian institutions, strengthened freedom of expression, including free and independent media and increased political influence and enhanced enjoyment of human rights for women and children. Has the Minister followed up on the government's own governance document? What has the Minister to say about what the money has gone to? Why is the government reducing aid to Tanzania because of negative developments but increasing aid to Palestine, which really does not measure up to call itself democracy? Why does the Minister have different standards for countries in terms of democracy and human rights?
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-145	Madam President, I would like Since I took office, I have worked a lot on democracy issues. Unfortunately, developments in the world as a whole are going in the wrong direction in terms of human rights and democracy. A majority of the world's population lives in countries that do not meet what we think are reasonable demands for democracy and an increasingly authoritarian environment. I am pleased that the Christian Democrats are paying attention to the fact that the Government and I, as Minister of State, are pursuing these issues. A few clear examples of this are Cambodia and Tanzania. I think, however, that we must see each country separately, because each country has its own history, its development and its situation, which we must start from before we take a position on how to act and how to press on and try to create a change in a positive direction. In many of the countries where we work with Swedish aid today, it is an authoritarian situation. But we are trying to work towards democratisation, and we are working closely with civil society. Usually we do not work at such a way that we give some form of budget support to regimes, and Palestine is a typical example. We're not giving budget support there. That is why we also have very little influence on how to use their budget and how the work is done. We are focusing Swedish aid mainly on extra-parliamentary organisations and on work for human rights that takes place alongside this. When discussing Israel and Palestine, it must be remembered that this is an extremely special situation. Israel has an extremely vulnerable situation, but so have the Palestinians. Many Palestinians have been displaced from their homes and from their areas where they have lived for generations. There has also been a settlement policy for a long time, which has caused the Palestinian area to shrink. Over the past year, there has been a discussion about annexing large parts of the West Bank and the area formally controlled by the Palestinians. Although this is not done in full in practice, it is nevertheless the area that has been allocated in previous agreements to the Palestinians. This has, among other things, since the American moves towards a long-term solution, diluted the contradictions and divisions in the area. Instead, we are trying to work to bring about peace and reconciliation. I was down in Israel and Palestine not long ago talking to the representative of the Palestinian Authority and of the Prime Minister, but also to the Minister of State from the Israeli regime. I raised the issue of democracy very clearly at the time. In fact, there is a need for a solution in which both Israel and Palestine agree that there should be general elections in the region. It is also needed in East Jerusalem, where the Israelis have more control over the situation.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-152	Madam President, I would like The answer says that it has been promised by the Palestinian side and by the President that it will not be encouraged to violence against Israelis, Jews. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case. We are constantly looking at the official website of the Palestinian Authority, on Facebook and on Twitter calls for violence. I have been engaged for quite a number of years in this matter and regularly try to look at what is being sent out. On July 20, I watched a children's program on Palestinian State Television. There, images of the female figure Fatima – satire images are made by a cartoonist who is used quite often – who gives AK47s to children. Two days later, she handed out stones to children. There you can also see children throwing stones at an Israeli soldier. I can show you these pictures after the debate. On 3 August, children had to send home-made films to the Palestinian Authority's own official children's channel where they sit next to convicted terrorists who look like they could be perceived as saints. Both little girls and boys pose with a person convicted of involvement in no less than four murders. In another program, it is four- and five-year-olds who say that Jews are rats and pigs. I have brought with me a small doll seized by Israeli customs some time ago. Four thousand copies of the doll would be distributed in Gaza. It's a softie doll depicting a Palestinian throwing stones. The government and all political parties in Sweden consider it important to combat anti-Semitism. In Sweden it is considered a breeding ground for a lot of misery and that it is important to combat anti-Semitism. We have to understand that it's the same thing down there. We will never get anywhere with the peace efforts if we do not tackle this. In fact, Sweden is giving money to a variety of organisations that are then invested in different types of support. But this frees up space that allows you to bet on different things. Last year, Sweden gave SEK 1.5 billion in support to terrorists. It is a large part of their own budget. Here we must face the truth. This is a development that is not peace-promoting. Sweden is a great power down there. Sweden pays out a lot of money. I'm not against giving support. There are great needs. But Sweden must start making demands. Sweden must see these things, take this up, play a role and push. Otherwise, we'll never get anywhere.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-159	Madam President, I would like I noted that the Minister for Development called the Israeli Government a regime. I think that is a bit harsh, because it really is a democracy that we are talking about. The word "regime" is often used about certain other regimes around the world. I also noted that the Minister did not answer my question if the Government and the Minister themselves have followed up their own policy document to actually see where the money goes. How do you follow this up when you yourself are so careful to say that you expect efforts to strengthen democratically-governed Palestinian public institutions, strengthen freedom of expression including free and independent media, increase political influence and strengthen human rights measures for women and children? I did not get an answer to this question. Sida is Sweden's Development Agency and works to ensure that people living in poverty can improve their living conditions themselves. That's very good. But why do Sida's funds go to, for example, the Palestine groups in Sweden? If you go to their website you can link to the boycott Israel movement, BDS. The Bundestag, the German Parliament, has decided to label the BDS movement as anti-Semitic. The BDS campaign to boycott Israel's artists and goods resembles the most terrible chapter in German history and triggers the memory of the Nazi slogan: Don't buy from Jews! My question is: how can it be possible that the money can go from Sida in this way, and is it not time now that there is an audit of this that really goes in depth with where our tax money goes, so that we can find out that the money does not go directly into the back pocket of terrorists?
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-163	Madam President, I would like I have to say that I am quite upset about Mikael Oscarsson's speech here in particular. He claims we're betting $1 1⁄2 billion, which in practice goes to terrorists. That is completely wrong. I don't think you should go with such an untruth. I think the best thing would be if Mikael Oscarsson could apologize for that statement, because it has nothing to do with reality. We are not giving money and budget support to the Palestinian organisation. According to the new strategy, we are providing support of 11⁄2 billion over five years. The vast majority go to civil organisations outside the Palestinian Authority. The fact that those efforts would contribute to terrorism is completely wrong. It's the other way around. The efforts we make help build a civil society and organisations that can function and work for peace and consensus in the region. This is not about support for terrorism. I cannot agree with that. I cannot accept that interpretation being made here, because it is a completely incorrect interpretation of reality. I do not think that one should stand here and go with untruth in this way in the Swedish Parliament. To Magnus Oscarsson I can say that we follow up and evaluate all the different programmes and projects in the aid. We control what the effect has been, if we think it is reasonable to continue, if you are to change direction and how it should be done. I also think that the insinuation that the Palestinian groups would support terrorism is quite gross. The support we give goes not to the Palestinian groups as an organisation, but to an activity to which Sida pays out money. It is checked that this is precisely the business that the money goes to and nothing else.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-168	Madam President, I would like The government will be upset. But what I said was that, overall, last year, 11⁄2 billion went from the Palestinian Authority to terrorist salaries. Officially, the government rejects boycott and BDS. Yet support is being given to organizations advocating boycotts against Israel, and it is well known that Israel is the only Jewish state in the world. One example is that money is given to the Palestinian groups' website, where it is encouraged to boycott and BDS. The question is, what's the government gonna do? This must be connected. What I have tried to say here today is that Sweden can play a much greater role. Sweden gives a lot of money and can press. I think there is a great possibility that the message will go forward. As I was in the past, Sweden pumps money in different ways. This makes it possible that there are means to give, for example, this much to terrorist wages. If we are serious about pressing for anti-Semitism in Sweden and say that it is important, we must do the same when it comes to our contacts with the Palestinian Authority. There must be an end to encouraging violence in schools. Then this message must come from the Swedish side: If there is to be money in the future, we must see that this ends.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-172	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has not been present when I met representatives of the Palestinian Authority. He does not know what I have said and how much I have pushed the issue of democracy. Mikael Oscarsson's argument is that we should stop giving money. If you use that argument against them, you get the answer: you don't give us any money. That is the answer that comes, because we are not giving money to the Palestinian Authority. But Mikael Oscarsson does not really seem to accept that this is the way it is. Essentially, the money goes to completely different things. As I recall now, there is a single project, an environmental project dealing with water treatment, which we are contributing to with regard to the authorities. But there is no budget support whatsoever for the Palestinian Authority. The Palestinian Authority would probably not be pleased if we were to withdraw money support for NGOs, but it is nothing that finances their activities. However, I am happy to stand up and often talk to Palestinian representatives about the need to invest in a democratic election. I think it's terrible that it's been so long. There are explanations, as we must see. But that does not mean that we should not demand that there be democratic elections as soon as possible. It says in the strategy that we have just adopted that Sida will work for it, and it is a tightening up compared to the previous strategy.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-175	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark has asked me what conclusions I currently draw from how the different Nordic countries have handled the pandemic, what risks I see in the Nordic countries dealing with the question of closing and opening borders on what can be seen as a dysfunctional and non-harmonised way and how I intend to face these risks. Furthermore, Mr Wallmark has asked me how I intend to act to strengthen Nordic cooperation. The Nordic countries have been affected differently by the covid-19 pandemic and have partly chosen different strategies to reduce the spread of infection. For example, the border restrictions imposed by our neighbouring countries have had major consequences, not least in our integrated border regions – for border trade, tourism and everyday cross-border contacts. The situation means that the natural community and interdependence built up in border regions are now at risk for a long time. During the spring and summer I have had continuous contact with my respective colleagues in the Nordic countries. Other ministers and the Prime Minister have also been in contact with their Nordic colleagues. Among other things, the Prime Minister attended a Nordic Prime Minister's meeting on 25 June, when border issues were discussed. Throughout the pandemic, the Nordic disease and health authorities have worked closely with the exchange of information and experiences. In our contacts with the Nordic countries, we have highlighted the regional differences in the spread of infection and the importance of continuous dialogue. Furthermore, we have promoted flexible solutions through regional or local openings of borders. In addition, we have informed about the Swedish measures to respond to co-in the 19 pandemic. There are some differences in the measures taken in the different Nordic countries to deal with the pandemic. There are also differences between countries within the EU as well as globally. The measures taken may have several different causes and are often influenced by the national context of each country. In essence, however, there are similarities between measures taken to reduce the spread of infection, such as recommending social exclusion and staying at home if they are ill. Through constructive and pragmatic cooperation, the most necessary work time has been able to continue under the covid-19 pandemic. It has been important to safeguard socially critical functions, such as the continued supply of personnel to healthcare. Some reliefs have also taken place during the summer, but the situation remains unsatisfactory. Co at the 19-pandemine has shown that our Nordic cooperation can be strengthened in some respects. I have therefore proposed to my co-operation ministers that we clarify our responsibility for how we in the Nordic countries can collaborate more effectively in border barriers issues. A timely dialogue is needed before decisions are taken that affect the mobility of citizens across borders. For me, as Minister for Foreign Trade and Minister for Nordic Affairs, this is a very important issue. The Swedish government continues to work actively to find solutions for border issues and travel within the Nordic region, in particular to see how together we can limit the negative effects of restrictions in border regions and how borders can be opened up in a responsible way step by step. From the Swedish Government we want to open up the entire Nordic region, and we continue to work for this.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-183	Madam President and the Government. The ambition of the Nordic governments, formulated via the Nordic Council of Ministers, is that the Nordic region will become the world's most integrated region. Madam President, I would like By 2020 there is no sign that this would be the most integrated region in the world. Madam President, I would like In fact, I usually commend Minister Hallberg. She is one of the ministers who, in my opinion, usually answers the most factually and concisely to the questions asked both here in this House and when we have other discussions, such as with the Nordic Council delegation. However, I have to say that I do not think that the written answers of the Council of State, which are certainly drawn up by a number of officials, are characterised by the precedent that I am used to from the Council of State. I will therefore try orally to repeat some of the questions I had in my written interpellation, which have been answered. Madam President, I would like The first question is: What does the Government do to assess why this is happening? Why have these closed borders in the Nordic countries met Sweden? In its reply, the Government states that the Nordic countries have been affected differently. It's a truth with some modification, because the corona virus has advanced across our part of the world in a rather similar way. On the other hand, we have undoubtedly dealt with it in different ways. We in Sweden know very well that we have this terrible burden of memories, memories and experiences to carry us in the form of the death that has come upon our retirement homes. This distinguishes Sweden from the other Nordic countries. I also believe that this is an explanation why Sweden has been met to a greater extent by this type of closed borders in our Nordic region. The other countries have reacted to Sweden and our way of dealing with this. Madam President, I would like I do not think that the governments and Mr Hallberg's fellow ministers in Oslo, Copenhagen and Helsinki have done this to be mean. My first question, then, is: Why? It quickly leads to the second question: What kind of risk assessment has the government done when choosing the Swedish Corona strategy in relation to how it would be perceived by other countries? Again, I do not believe that the countermeasures that Sweden has suffered are based on malice in Oslo, Copenhagen and Helsinki. We can agree quite well that a great deal has broken into what would become the most integrated region in the world. Therefore, at the end of the Government's response, I see that it is suggested that some form of initiative should be taken. But it would be interesting to know if there is anything more concrete. How do we move on? I think something needs to be done. We must restore mobility, but I also believe that we must safeguard Nordic identity. There is also a question which is not at all concerned but which I asked anyway. It is about whether the Government wants to open up to a Nordic Corona Commission. The Moderates were pushing for a long time here in Sweden, against the government, that we should have a Corona Commission. Finally, we got a Corona commission in place – also without political overcoats, which was a blessing. I wonder how the Government views this idea of a Nordic Corona Commission. It is an idea that is not mine, by the way, but that is performed by the Nordic Association. I think it is now important to handle the types of different images that we have in a Sweden that has met and partly still encounters closed borders. There is a reality in Stockholm, at the Departments and at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. But there is a completely different reality in Tornedalen, in the Öresund region, in Värmland and Bohuslän. I believe that we must also protect it outside Stockholm.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-196	Madam President, I would like I agree with Mr Wallmark that there is no doubt that Nordic cooperation has faced major challenges during the covid-19 crisis. The vision of becoming the world's most sustainable and integrated region is under intense pressure. It does not change our long-term goal of pursuing this vision. On the contrary, I think that the crisis has made the vision even more important. The crisis has shown that it is even more important to realise the vision. I will be happy to answer the questions and in the usual order do what I think we normally have a good dialogue about, although we do not agree on all the answers. If we talk about why we have closed down, I think it is because we have had a crisis that struck very quickly. There were urgent measures in each country, and a slightly different decision was made. I was already sorry at that time, in February March, that national decisions were taken without considering looking at the Nordic context as well. It did not put in the balance for its decisions what this means for our border regions. As Mr Wallmark points out, Madam President, the reality of border regions' citizens and their everyday lives is different. Not to include this in the decisions when taking such decisive measures as closing borders is, of course, regrettable, unfortunate and not sustainable in a community that is going towards the vision that we have just mentioned. This rapid and uncoordinated shutdown was unfortunate. I also see that the countries of the Nordic countries now, one by one, are waking up and saying: This is not how we can have it. I do not want to speculate exactly why other countries made the decisions they have taken on border restrictions and on how they are now opening up. They have also chosen quite different ways to open up. Denmark has opened up completely now, Norway goes back and forth almost every two weeks for different regions and Finland has made a partial regional opening. So it looks different even now. I do not wish to speculate on the precise background to any national decision. However, one can say that it is obvious that Sweden is severely affected. We have now set up a Commission to provide an answer to the questions. We do not have the answers here today, but we have a hypothesis that this is a cluster infection. Stockholm was hard hit. There were a lot of travel flows and so on. We are not going to go into this debate, but Sweden has certainly been hard hit. However, we have also based our decision in the Swedish Government not to close the borders on the recommendations that come from the ECDC, among other things, that border closures are not an effective means of combating the infection. There the other countries have chosen a different path. As I mentioned in my first reply, we see it as our ambition to try to reopen the Nordic region at all costs. We work almost every day for it by the Swedish Government. When it comes to the reality that prevails in the country, there is a reality here in Stockholm too, that is, that this also has great economic significance for Sweden as a nation. About 25% of our exports go to the other Nordic countries. Then there is a reality, a daily life, for our border citizens, of whom I am most aware. I have spoken with all municipalities and with the most vulnerable many times and worked to find solutions there. I am fully aware of the difficult reality that this has put our border citizens in. Nevertheless, I would like to return to the fact that Sweden has chosen a path that is evidence-based in this case too, namely that border closures are not a recommendation from either the Swedish or the European disease control authority as an effective means of combating the infection.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-207	Madam President, I would like Now I recognize Minister Hallberg a little more than in the answer from her officials. I just want to say a few things. I believe that there is one thing that unites us, both the Council of State, the undersigned and the Members who are not present in this House but who make up this House. That's the significance of the North. The government touched on it somewhat, but perhaps we should emphasise it even more. The Nordic region is extremely central to Sweden. The EU is very important – it is our most important foreign and security policy arena and our economy. But the North is our community. Here are our values. There is a common climate here. Here is the common story. Here is the common political link. And there is also, as the Government mentioned, our economy. These are our most important trading partners. Madam President, I would like The Nordic countries are siblings, and our Baltic republics are our cousins. This is our part of the world. That is why this is such a tragedy. And, Madam President, the word failure must also be used when siblings are forced to close the door to each other. That is what has happened. I share the opinion of the Government that many of the problems arose at an early stage because no one knew the extent and precise consequences of the pandemic, and therefore there were in turn a number of urgent measures and decisions with, as the Council of State correctly refers to it, a lack of coordination. The government used the word. I share that vision. What is not the problem, Madam President, is that Sweden, too, made a number of decisions which may also be described as crucial and which came to be perceived as contrary to what was done in the other countries, not least in Denmark, Norway and Finland. There is sometimes a kind of Swedish self-sufficiency when we try to explain this. I believe that perhaps the somewhat lack of humility combined with the wave of death that struck violently against Swedish retirement homes has affected this. That is why it is important to think about how to move forward, and that question may be raised by the Government in terms of how it can be done in concrete terms. I think it was important that the Moderates were the driving force in setting up and finally getting a Corona Commission in place in Sweden, and I also think it is an interesting proposal that the Nordic Association has raised about a joint Nordic Corona Commission. I therefore repeat this question to the Government, which is how it is viewed by the government. There are different images of the frustration that exists. I could tired the Government by repeating some of the stories from Strömstad, Värmland, Tornedalen and Öresund, but I think the Government has heard them many times. Before we got the sub-regional solutions with Denmark, when Denmark accepted Swedes from different areas, not least Skåne, it was perceived as frustrating that we had our border open. This meant that Danish citizens came from Copenhagen and Själland to Skåne to shop, go to restaurants and even get via Ystad to Bornholm, but the same border, the same door into Denmark, was for some time closed for us from Skåne. I think that the feeling of it is something that is extremely central for Nordic politicians to process now that we leave the pandemic 2020 behind.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-215	Madam President, I would like We're in a marathon with this pandemic. We don't have the answer yet to which country has chosen right and to whether having a lockdown at first or having lockdown, opening and then lockdown again is the right strategy. We see that countries that have had a far-reaching lockdown have a greater spread of infection than Sweden and so on. Of course, we shall not discuss the cause of the development of the pandemic in the various countries in this debate. But the fact that I mention the word marathon is because, like Hans Wallmark, I want to say that the Nordic region and the Nordic community are one of the most important things we have. We must protect it, and we must therefore live with this in waves that go back and forth for the next few or two years when it comes to the spread of the disease. Now it is increasing in the rest of the Nordic countries, and Sweden has stabilised a little. We have no idea where it will have gone in six months. We must have a dialogue and a common understanding that it is the Nordic countries that are to tackle crises like this together and not each one separately. That's what I want to work for now. I would like to use the word family, perhaps a little everyday, because that is how you would like to see the Nordic countries. I think a lot of people woke up a little dizzy in this crisis and said that maybe we weren't so much family. But how can we be in the North again? And what do you do in a family? Well, when you go through crises, you solve them together, and you also have a dialogue about what action to take. I would like to return to what I have mentioned earlier in my replies, and that is that I have proposed that we Nordic Co-operation Ministers, who will be seen on 10 September, must develop a model of co-operation – one can use the term code of conduct – for how we Nordic Co-operation Ministers should behave together when we end up in a crisis or get out of this crisis. The attitude of the Swedish Government to this is that we must have a dialogue when we take decisions that affect the mobility of our citizens across borders. As soon as it affects the border regions of the other country, we must have a dialogue before and not just inform, at worst, when it is fait accompli. That is a question that I and we from Sweden will be pursuing. I have already initiated the work of putting it on the agenda on 10 September. As far as a Commission is concerned, what Mr Wallmark says is that we now have a Commission in Sweden that will work on this. It will also evaluate Swedish management in an international comparison with relevant countries. This makes a comparison between Sweden and the other Nordic countries an important part. Whether there needs to be further evaluation of a Commission at the Nordic level, I think we should certainly discuss it. It is also something that the Nordic Ministers for Cooperation, at the request of the Nordic Council, should certainly be able to discuss. We need to learn something from the crisis that we are going through, and we need to learn lessons from it quite quickly now in order not to get out of this crisis uncoordinated. When it comes to border closures or having borders open, as the comparison with Denmark was about, then Sweden had the border open and it came Danes to Skåne, which caused irritation, I would say that it is not an accessible way to close borders just to retaliate, if we put it that way, because another country closes borders. I don't think Hans Wallmark means it either. We have chosen the way not to see border closures as part of an epidemiological strategy. Just because Denmark closed for a period of time, we did not see a reason to do the same. I am fully aware that it caused irritation, and it is not only in Skåne and that part of Sweden, but also in Värmland, Strömstad and Norrbotten. We have to deal with these social difficulties.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-223	Madam President, I would like With regard to this particular type of cross-border services that have been in place before closed borders, I fully agree with the Government. I haven't spent a lot of time in Skåne just explaining that you can't have that kind of give-back thinking, because then we have a spiral downwards. However, there is probably in the different border regions that the Government lists sometimes a feeling that Stockholm has not really understood how hard this has been. I believe that we need to spend considerable time saving the soil from which a number of root threads have been torn up or torn apart. That is why I am pleased, Madam President, with what the Government has indicated on 10 September, that various forms of cooperation should be discussed which are based on something deeper than simply informing, namely also on trying to coordinate. I am not going to review either, Madam President, whether one or the other country's actions have been right or wrong. On the other hand, and this has been my entrance to the Government and the Government, I believe that we from the Swedish side should also have reflected on how our actions will be perceived by others. That is what I mean, in part, has been an explanation for the fact that we have met with closed borders with Norway, Denmark and Finland – not out of malice, but because it has been perceived as having done in one way and everyone else in another. We should also reflect on that ourselves. I think, Madam President, that the government is also a little bad at self-reflection. I also think that we really need to emphasise in all contexts that, although this is not the world's most integrated region right now, it is extremely important that we deepen the Nordic-Baltic, because this is our home, this is our culture, these are our values and this is our economy – our starting point in the Nordic region.
i-d85a4803b5b0ddf3-227	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Hans Wallmark and I and, I believe, many here in Parliament and also politicians in other Nordic countries agree on so much. I welcome this debate. It takes two to tango. If we demand that other countries be transparent with their strategy and decisions, we must of course look into whether we have been sufficiently transparent. Have we had enough dialogue with the other Nordic countries before we made our decisions? It is incredibly important that we now have the energy to put these questions on the table and ask them both to ourselves in Sweden and to the other Nordic countries – what can we do better and what could we have done better? – and also make an evaluation. We will do this now and not wait a few years. This is important. Kris strengthens a relationship. I am convinced that we will come out of this crisis even stronger if we work in such a way that we discuss what we could have done better, what we should do differently in the next crisis and how to get out of the crisis together. But we must be able to put the difficult questions on the table. I will make sure that they are on the table when we meet on 10 September. This is perhaps not always done in the Nordic context and in the Nordic cooperation. Maybe you haven't needed it in the last few years. I think all of this is incredibly important. I would like to comment on what was said about Stockholm and the rest of the country. The crucial thing when we have a dialogue like the one I have had with the 21 border municipalities – many municipalities I have met several times, for example Strömstad – and met entrepreneurs out there, both physically and now digitally, is that we show that we care about what happens in our border regions. There must be no doubt about that in our citizens. I am pleased that Mr Wallmark and I fully agree that we must have such a focus in the future. I very much look forward to continued dialogue and cooperation on this.
