i-4d00b072ed53249e-0	Madam President, I would like The leaders of the European Council met last Thursday over a video meeting to discuss the ongoing pandemic. The President of the European Council, Mr Michel, initially touched on recent terrorist attacks in France and Austria. Protecting people from terrible acts such as these attacks is one of the most central responsibilities of the state and an important part of EU cooperation. The EU Member States stand in full solidarity with France and Austria. The European Council plans to return to security issues in December. There was no more discussion on this issue. Madam President, I would like The floor then went to Chancellor Merkel, who presented the German Presidency's work on the budget package. It would have been a major task to transform the conclusions of the July European Council into legal texts which were subsequently negotiated with the European Parliament. Ms Merkel noted that 25 countries and the European Parliament could now support the agreement, while Hungary and Poland were blocking. The two countries do not accept the so-called conditionality regulation, which creates a conditionality between payments from the EU budget and respect for the principles of the rule of law. This is an issue that Sweden has been pushing hard. The Heads of State or Government of Hungary and Poland, Viktor Orbán and Mateusz Morawiecki, set out their objections to the agreement. The Prime Minister of Slovenia, Janez Janša, also gave his views on the matter. Mr Michel then concluded the discussion and stressed the importance of adopting the budget package as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like The meeting was then devoted to the ongoing pandemic, focusing on three issues: testing, vaccines and coordination of restrictive measures. The Commission President, Mrs von der Leyen, gave a brief presentation of the Commission's work and the proposals that have been presented recently. The leaders who took the floor, most of whom were, reported on the situation in their countries. There was great concern about recent developments, with greater spread of infection and more people in need of intensive care. When it comes to testing, the focus was on so-called rapid tests and how these can be used and assessed more equally between Member States. There was a broad consensus on the need for mutual recognition of both tests and test results, and many welcomed the recommendations presented by the Commission last week. Effective testing is an important part of the work to stop the spread of infection, and it is positive that it is now further advanced in the development of reliable rapid tests. On the issue of vaccines, it was found that we at last seem to have a vaccine within reach. It is now time to prepare for allocation and distribution. Member States shall continue to work on their national vaccination plans to ensure that, once available, vaccines are also available to all EU citizens. I and many others welcomed the EU-wide procurement that has taken place. Sweden has now joined procurement from three companies, all of which have shown good test results. One issue that many touched upon was that more and more people are suspicious of vaccines and that therefore clear and accurate information is particularly important to ensure that enough people choose to vaccinate. The last point was how best to ease existing restrictions once the situation has improved. Many stressed the need to exercise caution and learn from recent experiences. Communication and coordination had not worked all the time when restrictions were imposed. There was a consensus that restrictions should be gradually released. I pointed out that greater predictability and coordination are good for travel restrictions and quarantine rules, for example. Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemy, which has now swept in all the countries of the world, is affecting our families, our relatives and our friends. It is, of course, important for the EU to contribute to effective pandemic work. At the same time, it is up to each person to do his or her part so that the infection can be stopped. This requires sacrifice in both small and large things, but it is absolutely necessary. That concludes my statement from the meeting on 19 November.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-9	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his report. I will focus mainly on the budget. My colleague Johan Hultberg will highlight the Corona crisis, which was a key point at the European Council. There was a lot of reporting both before and after the meeting on Hungary's and Poland's budgetary veto. The President of the European Council, Mr Michel, highlights the precarious situation that has now arisen. Among other things, he said at the press conference: we will continue the discussions in order to find a solution that is acceptable to everyone. My interpretation of the Hungarian and Polish statements is that they are not prepared to accept any solution. I wonder how the Prime Minister interprets the President of the Council and what the Prime Minister thinks is an acceptable solution. We Moderates were critical this summer of the agreement finally reached on the rule of law mechanism. Therefore, I am grateful that the European Parliament has pushed forward this proposal, which 25 – or 24 – depending on how to interpret Slovakia's statement – countries clearly say yes. It is clear that EU cooperation is always a matter of compromise and permanent negotiation. But Sweden cannot compromise Europe's fundamental values. Sweden will also continue to be one of the largest net contributors. Sweden has said that all right. A rather important reason is that many other EU countries are having a particularly difficult time. Of course, all Member States have the same formal say on this matter. But Sweden and the Swedish Government have an extra moral responsibility towards our country's taxpayers to ensure that this rule of law mechanism is put in place. The Moderates are not prepared to compromise. I wonder what the Prime Minister says.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-13	Madam President, I would like When it comes first to Hungary and Poland, it is clear that they are against. But it is equally clear that 25 have said yes to the agreement. It was not Slovakia but, if so, Slovenia that asked for the floor. But it is my opinion that it is the two – Hungary and Poland – who are the most opposed. Of course, I cannot guarantee what Slovenia's position will ultimately be. At worst, it's 24 to 3. It was very clear at the pre-meeting that we had before the European Council with a number of countries. It was Germany, Italy, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, the Commission and the European Council. We have now reached an agreement with the European Parliament, and that is what applies. Then the question is how to move forward in the next step. That is what Mr Michel refers to when he says that we must discuss it further. If there is no agreement within the right time, the current budget will roll forward one month at a time, and then we do not have a long-term budget. Somehow it has to be resolved. But there is no appetite from anyone else to abandon the agreement we have with Parliament. That is also the answer to the second question. I do not see any compromise in the sense that we should water this down. There is a strong position here in the Swedish parliament for what the government has run. We're gonna stand up for that. There is a strong position for this among a large majority of the other countries.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-17	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the announcement. It is provoked by the actions of Poland and Hungary. I would also like to highlight another point that the Prime Minister raised first in his re-report. A few weeks ago France and Austria suffered abominable terrorist attacks. It is important that we stand up for each other, show solidarity and condemn terrorism regardless of what kind of terrorism it is. Terrorism is a threat to the fundamental values of our society. Here the European Union and our Community play a role. When the EU works together, it makes a difference. It is important that we have consistent action and are clear in our signals. In the press conference held by Charles Michel, he highlighted, among other things, stricter frameworks for online platforms. This is something that the Moderates have highlighted, among other things, in order to save data traffic. That's good. There are a number of other measures that we also need to look at. It concerns funding, strengthening Europol, a European list of barricades for hate preachers and so on. What does the Prime Minister intend him to highlight in the discussions?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-24	Madam President, I would like We expressed our empathy and sympathy with Austria and France. We are well aware that it can happen to anyone. Obviously, Sweden can also be affected by this type of attack. Therefore, the cooperation is A and O. It has to be done in a variety of ways. It is, of course, a matter of information transmission, and it may be other things. We are now preparing this for December. We agreed on that. We will resume the discussion in December. In view of this, all countries and not least the Commission will have to explain what we can do to further strengthen cooperation. A first initiative has been taken by France and Austria. They wanted an even closer cooperation. We are also in contact with them to see what we can do more there together in that cooperation. However, I believe that the whole of EU cooperation will be crucial.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-27	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. The government's reputation in the international fine room is something that the government has spent a lot of time, energy and money on. Sweden as a humanitarian power is the brand that you want to sell. This is done, among other things, through billions of contributions to the UN and its various institutions and by the fact that Sweden's aid budget greatly exceeds the UN's recommendation. The government has budgeted over 70 billion in international aid next year. However, this is also done by Sweden being one of the largest net contributors to the EU and thus passing on 45 billion Swedish tax dollars to the EU every year. Madam President, I would like Why is the government pouring all this money into other states and their citizens instead of investing it here? I believe that the government is doing its utmost to conceal within the international community the failures that exist at home, not least linked to the widespread crime, insecurity and segregation. In this way, the government hopes to be judged by world leaders and other fine people on the basis of its generosity towards other states, organisations and people instead of its rejection of Sweden and the Swedes. When it comes to dealing with the pandemic, this has at times been difficult to hide. This applies not least when Sweden has chosen its own path, has horribly high death rates and most recently a few days ago was considered the worst in Corona management by all OECD countries. My question is therefore: did Sweden's management of the pandemic receive any criticism during the meeting?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-35	Madam President, I would like No.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-36	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the brief reply from the Prime Minister. However, it remains my view that the government's generosity aims to try to establish an as effective facade as the one that hides the dirty background behind Musse Mouse's caravan in Kalle Anka and his friends wish Merry Christmas. However, when it comes to dealing with the pandemic, I am convinced that there are not only cracks in this facade, but rifts and large holes. This is something that is likely to have been revealed by Heads of State or Government from other countries. The question is rather whether they had the stomach – which they did not, according to Stefan Löfven – to point this out to him or whether they are doing him and the government a disservice by pretending to be nothing in the hope of having additional Swedish tax funds for their countries and their people in the future.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-38	Madam President, I would like If the MP had spent as much time finding out the facts as trying to formulate a populist text about Sweden, the EU and the rest of the world, the facts say that it is the Riksdag that makes decisions on, for example, Sweden's budget, the state budget, which also includes aid money. To say that the government is wasting money is just simple populism. I am absolutely convinced that the Swedish Parliament has chosen this line for the reason that Sweden is well off from membership of the EU. Alone on this voyage would be a very dangerous adventure. Sweden has great benefits from membership of the EU and access to a market that contributes to Sweden's prosperity. But I don't think that's enough populism to understand.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-41	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. We are approaching the end of a year that has put very severe strain on Sweden as regards the transmission of the coronavirus, but also on the many companies that have been severely affected as a result of the restrictions. We share the government's assessment that sharp restrictions are needed in the now increasingly rapid spread of infection. At the same time, it is necessary to raise your eyes and look to the time after the pandemic. For many Swedish companies, the question is right now whether they will be around in a few months' time. Tens of thousands of employees in companies around the country are currently feeling a great deal of anxiety and are probably wondering if they will have the job left next year. Last week, the Center Party called for the government to act to get the European Commission to reactivate the disaster base in the regulatory framework that allows for a substantial increase in conversion aid to our Swedish companies. This is absolutely necessary in order to reduce the risks of continued bankruptcies and further redundancies. The Prime Minister announced at Question Time that he fully shared the views of the Center Party and that he intended to raise and pursue this issue in the EU. I would therefore like to follow it up with the Prime Minister. Did he have the opportunity to raise that question, and if so, how did the discussions go?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-46	Madam President, I would like These different issues are being pursued not only on one occasion but on the various occasions that we have. It is above all the Ministry of Finance in its contacts with the Commission that is pushing this issue so that we can make it easier for Swedish companies in this difficult situation. So we are doing this in a number of ways. At the European Council, we are not in exactly all the details involved, but there is no doubt that the Commission and the European Union know where Sweden is on the issue and what we want to achieve.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-48	Madam President, I would like Only in the week since the last report has the situation deteriorated considerably. The EU also said this spring that it was an exceptional situation. What are we now seeing in front of our eyes if not an exceptional situation? For Sweden it is an extremely urgent issue to get these subsidies in place. We do not feel in contact with other countries that they all have the same difficulties as Sweden. I do not want to be content with the answer, therefore, that this is a question that is dealt with only at Coreper level or at the level of finance ministers. This issue is so important to Sweden that it must also be raised at the highest level. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister again how he will proceed in pursuing this issue, when it is clearly difficult for Sweden to obtain support in the EU to enforce these very important forms of support for us.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-51	Madam President, I would like First of all, this is not a regulatory framework that applies only to Sweden. This applies equally to all countries. In Sweden, we have also presented a number, a two-digit number, of additional amending budgets in view of the situation we are in, where much of the support is directed precisely at the business community. So it is not that we have not been able to do anything. We are taking every opportunity to point out shortcomings in the regulatory framework. If there are such, we have not only an opportunity to do so but several times. The government is therefore very clear in the EU that we want to have good conditions for helping our companies. We have done so far, and we want to do more. We are following the situation very closely here in Sweden and are prepared to do more. More additional amending budgets are likely to come, to the benefit of the Swedish business community as well.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-54	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the report, Prime Minister. I would like to begin by expressing the full support of the Left Party for the Prime Minister not to fold an inch on the principles of the rule of law. I would also like to return to the meeting of the EU Council before the European Council. I then raised the risk of countries in the South not receiving the vaccine and was pleased with the Prime Minister's reply that Sweden is pushing this issue and that the European Union is also ensuring in its aid that vaccines will be distributed worldwide, so to speak. Now, however, I have a question concerning cooperation within the EU: how is it ensured that the vaccine will be distributed evenly in the Union and as necessary, so that it does not happen here too that the rich and more forward-looking countries receive more of the vaccine? We have seen in the past how some countries have closed their borders and seized material that would go further, for example to Sweden. Is there a risk that this will happen now? I also have a question concerning the vaccine. We know that many states and the Union have invested billions in research. Will it in any way affect the price, or is it only commercially produced vaccines that the Union and Sweden have now procured? The Prime Minister also mentioned that there is a vaccine resistance and that you had talked about the need for clear and considered information. I would like to know a little more about how you talked about the vaccine resistance being overcome. For example, was there talk of reprisals in the form of travel restrictions or similar from any state?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-60	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank you for your support on the principles of the rule of law. As I said, there is very clear support for a large majority, which feels good. However, we still have a way to go because two are against, possibly three. As far as distribution in the EU is concerned, it is negotiated on the basis of a key based on the population, quite simply. It's the first parameter, as far as I know. I don't know anyone else, but that's how it's distributed. We get our share in relation to our share of the population. I can't do the price thing. It's just as well to say what it is. I don't know exactly how the price has been set. We have negotiated three agreements in which Sweden is a part, but I simply do not dare to go into the exact parameters of the price. As far as the resistance to vaccines is concerned, we did not talk about reprisals, but about the need for further communication and information. Unfortunately, there are very false rumours and falsaries that are spreading about the vaccine in the EU as well. There is also a partial organized resistance to the vaccine. We believe that we simply need to respond with accurate information, such as the fact that these vaccines are not authorised just like that. It is a rigorous test, and once approved, of course, it should work. It is therefore more in the area of communication and information that we are discussing, not reprisals.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-64	Madam President, I would like I asked the question of travel restrictions because in very many Member States there are already special travel restrictions applicable to certain countries, certain regions or certain testing requirements. That's why I asked if it had come up. As far as the cost is concerned, I fully understand that the Prime Minister does not know what the vaccine will cost per dose or for Sweden. Maybe it's not that strange. But I also see that the Union, and also Sweden, has spent a great deal of resources, tax money, on research into the corona vaccine. My question is, in fact, what the results of that money have been. Is it only commercially advanced vaccines that we are now going to receive, or are we also getting any results from the research resources that we have invested?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-66	Madam President, I would like When it comes first to travel restrictions, we think when we should highlight discussions of all kinds that it is important to coordinate so that we end up somewhat alike. Exactly what the result is if different countries have different vaccination requirements, I will leave it unsaid, but that is the way we want to go: to try to raise the debate in a coordinated manner. Research money has been put in for this to happen. As I said, I cannot say in detail to what extent it has been included in the price or in the total cost. It is clear that somewhere there is such a parameter too, I am quite convinced of that. However, I cannot tell you exactly how this has happened.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-68	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the report, Prime Minister. As far as the long-term budget is concerned, we agree that it is important now to find a solution to the blockage now taking place from Hungary and Poland. After all, there is an Article 7 procedure going on with Hungary and Poland, which may ultimately mean that they lose the right to vote in the Council. The question is how far along is this Article 7 procedure. I think we have been working on it for quite some time now in the European Council. Could it affect a solution in this way? With regard to Corona and that part, it is positive that the first two Coronavirus vaccines will be approved next month. That, of course, sounds very promising. On the other hand, I was warned of logistical barriers to the production and distribution of vaccines. I wonder what the Prime Minister said about that. Can there be distribution problems with getting the vaccine to Sweden, even? And what is the exact problem? Then there was a deep concern about lifting restrictions too quickly, which could lead to a third wave of infection. There was a need to limit travel, which would probably put a huge damper on Christmas and New Year's celebrations. My question to the Prime Minister is whether the government can envisage imposing restrictions on entry into Sweden from other EU countries. The Prime Minister says that he is in favour of coordinating but that Sweden would not unilaterally introduce it to protect Sweden. Finland's Prime Minister Sanna Marin has called for a common European approach in this area, and she wants a secure system for travel including pre-departure and arrival testing. She therefore has a clear proposal on how to make restrictions and testing systems for it to work in the EU. How does the Prime Minister view it?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-74	Madam President, I would like With regard to the budget and Poland and Hungary, the two processes are ongoing. Exactly when they're going to end, I don't think anyone can really answer. I agree that it has taken its time, but it is also due to the fact that this is a very powerful tool. Regardless of this, the budgetary issue must be resolved, and then we will see what opportunities it can offer. The discussion must continue between, in particular, the Presidency and the President of the European Council, Mr Michel, if there is such a solution, but it cannot be based on compromise on what we have agreed with Parliament. As far as the Corona vaccine is concerned, I specifically mentioned logistics because it is a huge challenge. There are many doses going out to all these countries, and one of the major problems is that at least one vaccine, as we know now, requires storage in − 70 g ader. Not all countries have such storage facilities. This in itself is a challenge, but overall ensuring that it comes out to the countries is also so. In addition, Member States shall have their respective strategies for obtaining it in the Member States. So this is a huge logistical challenge, and that is why I strived to address it. We need to talk it through carefully and know that we are really ready when the vaccines are ready for distribution. When it comes to raising the debate, it is Sanna Marin's whole point that we should really coordinate this in a different way from what we are doing today. I cannot say that Sweden will never do anything like that, but today this is not the case. The Public Health Authority does not believe that this is where we have the majority of the infection, but it is other sources.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-79	Madam President, I would like I hope that the Prime Minister will consider what else we can do to protect Sweden's population from further outbreaks of Corona. The issue of Brexit was not directly on the agenda, but it is still an issue that is now close in the pipeline. There should be an agreement in place before the end of the year. There are several EU officials and diplomats, including from France, the Netherlands and Spain, who are concerned that Mr Barnier is going too far and that the agreement he is drafting is worse than the no deal situation would mean. My question is: how does the Prime Minister view this scenario and the negotiations? According to the Prime Minister, do we have sufficient transparency and influence over the final result? I assume that the next summit will be very much about Brexit.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-82	Madam President, I would like The whole government's work is, of course, now to protect the population of Sweden from the corona with all available means. As far as Brexit is concerned, it stood still for a long time, but it now sounds like a real process is underway. Not least the fact that it was shot in silence is a good sign. Mr Michel has been given a mandate that he and his organisation negotiate from outside, so they know very well how far that mandate will last. Now, with regard to the three most sensitive issues that we have been talking about for a long time, it sounds like there is still a dialogue going on. There is never any promise, but, yes, the hope is that we have come to the point where there are opportunities. We really hope so, because this needs Sweden. I have faith that it is managed through the mandate.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-85	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good draw and good answer so far, Prime Minister! I would like to begin by saying that, on the question of the rule of law, there is not only strong support from Parliament, but it is almost as if there is no other mandate, we must note after this Question Time, for something other than defending the rule of law fully in all the countries that are part of the European Union and in the way that the Prime Minister has so far stated. I have a question that takes off in the vaccines. As a Liberal, Madam President, the Prime Minister is very pleased to explain in a very clear way how the European Union and the common muscles that we get when we work together actually create this opportunity that we will now have a very good access to vaccines. It is something that would not have benefited Sweden in the same way, or other countries of the European Union, if we had not been members and worked seriously with others. My question is – on the basis of the scenario that we have at the moment, where we, together, have muscles together and with vaccines, can curb covid throughout the Union – if the Prime Minister learns from this. After all, there are other areas, such as very highly specialised care, care for very rare diseases, with great scope for the European Union to develop much deeper cooperation and where the starting point is the same, namely that each individual country has a very difficult time creating care of the quality required to save patients, but that the Member States of the European Union could do so together. Does the Prime Minister learn from this?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-90	Madam President, I would like Yes, we fully agree on the principles of the rule of law, and that is a good thing. It is a strong signal from the Swedish parliament, and that support is good. As far as vaccines are concerned, EU cooperation is an opportunity. As for future lessons on health care, there are certainly such. Let us remember that this is a state mandate. Health care is the mandate of the Member States. There is no doubt that lessons can be learned in terms of further cooperation in the field of research. What conclusions may be drawn in addition, perhaps, we should leave to the Commission that we ourselves have set up to look at governments, authorities, regions and municipalities – but perhaps there may also be some conclusion to draw as far as European cooperation is concerned, as I know. The Commission must be able to respond to that. I am not there yet with any definite conclusion, but I think that European cooperation and what we can do without breaking the mandate that exists here is of the utmost importance. Basically, it is the Member States' issue.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-94	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. It is somewhat unclear what the Socialist position is on these issues. The social democrats in the European Parliament have been good at, for example, antibiotics, which are also about protecting the lives and health of European citizens, and which also means that we alone cannot do so, but can do so very effectively if we do so together. As far as the vaccine is concerned, Stefan Löfven presents a very reasonable position, namely that it is with common muscles that we can get good procurements that benefit the whole of Europe. But I wonder: why does it not come to the conclusion that we could then also have, for example, European specialist centres for very rare diseases or very advanced care? In such care, doctors need quantity in order to obtain a habit that cannot be provided with just one national patient base, but more are needed to ensure that patients ultimately have the best quality of care possible.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-98	Madam President, I would like As I said, it may be that we need to increase cooperation further, but the issue was not at all up for discussion at this European Council which I am reporting back from now on. With all due respect, I would like to say that perhaps we can come back to that discussion. I think it's important, but it wasn't discussed at this meeting.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-99	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. After all, when you arrive at the end of Question Time, most questions are asked, and many answers have also been given. But I'm going to try and get some new angle on it. These days many of us yearn and almost thirst for positive Corona news. After all, cooperation within the EU to procure and develop a vaccine for all citizens is something that we all very much hope for. The results of the different vaccine candidates look promising. Hopefully priority groups will be vaccinated early next year, but of course nothing is clear. And although nothing is clear until we have an approved vaccine in place, I would still like to ask the Prime Minister: what significance do you see that EU cooperation has had to speed up the development of a vaccine in order for everyone to be able to take part in it?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-103	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell was also concerned about this in his question. Well, of course it's of enormous importance. There is a huge difference in opportunities if Sweden, with more than 10 million inhabitants, instead participates in a cooperation involving 500 million inhabitants. It is clear that in this discussion with the companies that are going to research, develop and produce the vaccine, it becomes a completely different force – that's it. I consider it to be of great importance for Sweden's access to vaccines. I also think it is of great importance because the European Union has the same ambition as Sweden has expressed, that we must ensure that the outside world also actually has access to vaccines. There are many poor countries that do not have the same resources as us and whose citizens should also have the vaccine. There we have the same attitude. It is also important for our ability to take the line that we have a full position in the European Union in our discussion with the rest of the world and the producers. On the question here from Maria Strömkvist, my answer is that, in this perspective too, European cooperation is very important.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-106	Madam President, I would like I am pleased with the answer.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-107	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report and clear and good answers. I agree with many other Members of Parliament on this with the principles of the rule of law. After all, democracy is the beating heart of the European Union and indeed the real added value of the European Union and its fundamental values: equality, the rule of law, the independence of the courts and human rights. We are now seeing, for example, a very tough situation in Poland on the issue of abortion, and there are major demonstrations that we are trying to support. It is not just a piece of paper, but it is people of flesh and blood who suffer if this is not done in a good way. I therefore appreciate the fact that the Prime Minister has been very clear to the European Council and also here in Question Time that this is something that Sweden is pushing for very clearly. It was, of course, negotiations on these issues this summer, although one might think that they should not really be negotiable. The order is very important, because, as I understand it, the principles of the rule of law will be decided first and then on the whole budget package. If I have understood correctly, it will be an advantage for us more democrats, so to speak, that a little bit of the leverage will then fall away. You might have to call the cards a little bit there. How much do Poland and Hungary really have to resist in this when they have all the other countries against them? I would like an assurance from the Prime Minister that we are now really holding out all the way with the proposal that has come from the European Parliament.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-113	Madam President, I would like On the last, I can definitely say that yes, we endure. It's important. But it will nevertheless be a rather bumpy path because Poland and Hungary act as they do. We heard this morning that there has been a recent survey of the population of the European Union and that there is also a majority in Poland and Hungary because it is important to stand up for the principles of the rule of law. I think that is a further argument against those countries. If we are to have the resources and support of an organisation based on the principles of the rule of law, it is natural to say that we also stand up for the principles of the rule of law. If you are not prepared to do so, something is fundamentally wrong. Then we have a real problem. And then we must tackle the problem and not just send out money without guarantees of compliance with the principles of the rule of law. Just as Amanda Palmstierna says, it is about human rights, the whole media situation, the academy, the courts and so on, so it is extremely important that we now stand up for the principles of the rule of law. When it comes to the question of what is done first, the two countries of course claim that the elements included are a package, a decision. Exactly how that dispute will end, someone else needs to think more about. But it's as good to say as it is. We have a big problem here. We have to solve it, because the European Union is so incredibly important to all of us Member States. But it must be based on standing up for the principles of the rule of law. We cannot give up on that.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-117	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the very clear answer! I appreciate that. Another issue I would like to raise is, of course, the Corona crisis. We really are in a serious situation. I think you feel around you that it is a completely different feeling now compared to just a few weeks ago. It is very good that there is a commitment to rapid testing and that the joint procurement of vaccines has finally taken place. It is also good to work with coordination in different ways. My question is about restrictions on exports. In the spring, when everything happened, it was very painful to see how medical equipment got stuck to land borders. It was like a blow to solidarity within the Union, but there Sweden took a very good initiative to curb this. Then I wonder: Is there a risk that this will happen again, or do you work proactively to solve it?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-121	Madam President, I would like Never say never. But it works much better now than in the spring and how it went. We do not see those tendencies yet, but we can never guarantee anything. The way in which the vaccine distribution is to take place is pre-arranged according to population, so that everyone gets their share. Then things can happen by stealth, something we may not know about. There is no guarantee that this will not happen. However, both the Commission and most of the Member States were clear last spring that we do not have a market on which we are so dependent suddenly does not work when we are most dependent on it. I think most people probably hesitate to end up in a similar situation.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-123	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by taking this opportunity to commend the Prime Minister for his speech to the nation on Sunday. My praise concerns the clarity of the speech. It was a clarity that was really needed and which, unfortunately, I have lacked in large parts from the government under the coronapndemin. At the same time, however, when the Prime Minister stated in his speech that many have been careless in following advice and recommendations, I think it is important, Madam President, that the Prime Minister understands and acknowledges that the ambiguity and double signals that the government has sent, unfortunately, have probably contributed to the lack of compliance that the Prime Minister spoke of. The government simply needs to learn from its mistakes in order to improve the work ahead. Madam President, I would like The European Commission has been very clear in its recommendations to Member States on concrete countermeasures to reduce the number of covid-19 cases. Among other things, the Commission has underlined the need for testing, including the use of rapid tests, and calls on all Member States to develop and use apps to break disease chains. All of this, Madam President, is well in line with what we, the Moderates, have asked for. We want the government to take the initiative for a comprehensive national strategy for testing, detection and isolation. We also think that Sweden should also quickly get in place an app for infectious detection. That is why, Madam President, I would like to ask the Prime Minister how Sweden has responded to the Commission's recommendations. What information has the Prime Minister given to the Commission and to his other European colleagues regarding, for example, the national testing strategy, the detection phase and other recommendations that have come from the Commission?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-127	Madam President, I would like At first I was surprised that I would receive praise and thought that could never be possible! And, of course, something critical was turned into something. But it's okay! I do not share the view that we have been careless about the information. We have been very clear about the objective of combating the coronapandemine and what strategies we actually use. It's been coming out all along. With a situation that is changing, decisions should also be changed, and, of course, when reality changes, the measures will change. That's what we do. That is what makes decisions – the right decision at the right time. We have also always been very clear about the importance of testing. That is why we have provided so much resources to the regions to pass the testing; we are slightly over SEK 9 billion just for the testing to work. We are now up to just over a quarter of a million tests a week. Compared to Denmark, it is clear that it looks a little bit, but compared to Germany, I think we are even a little over. In this respect, then, we are probably in a good position to compare ourselves with other European countries. However, we need to do more, and that is why we are also looking at the possibility of buying up, for example, more laboratory capacity. Not least, we can take the really big step in the moment we get several rapid tests that are sufficiently reliable and where countries can rely on each other's assessment that they are carried out correctly and that the results are reliable – that we can trust each other. At the same time, it is still the case, as I understand it, that for some of the rapid tests, a PCR test needs to be performed if the test is positive. Then it also requires capacity. The rapid tests will, however, contribute, and we are involved in this coordination and coordination.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-131	Madam President, I would like Time is short, so I would just like to say that we have a slightly different view of the clarity on the part of the government. I am a little concerned about the lack of self-criticism I hear from the Prime Minister. However, I would now like to ask about the issue of vaccination, Madam President. When we moderated early in the pandemic, we raised the need to act quickly from the Swedish side to ensure the availability of vaccines and to begin the laborious work needed to get a large-scale vaccination, we were, at least initially, met with a rather large lack of interest on the part of the government. Thankfully, however, the government finally responded to the Moderates' proposals and began a structured two-track work, one national and one EU-wide. The latter, that is, the common European Union, has now really borne fruit; we have five different pre-purchase agreements ready as the Commission has signed. During the discussion, the issue of resistance to vaccination was discussed, among other things. What was Sweden's contribution to this discussion? What measures is the government taking to address this problem?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-134	Madam President, I would like The vaccination strategy was early, I think, and it is based on a few things. It is based on the cooperation we have with other countries – not least the EU, where Sweden is one of six countries, if I remember correctly, represented in the negotiating group. So Sweden is there, and that is a good thing. It is also based on the fact that we have a coordinator to ensure that we get the vaccine into the country and that the Swedish Public Health Agency has the task of getting the vaccine out in the country, thus ensuring that it can actually be handled logistically here at home so that everyone can get their vaccine when they want it. This is the strategy we have been working on all along, and the Commission knows it. It is also the one that the Public Health Authority has communicated to the European Authority. As far as resistance is concerned, we know there is. Sweden traditionally belongs to those countries where there is a strong line-up behind vaccination, but it can become a problem here too. That is why at the last European Council I raised the need for more communication and information.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-144	Madam President, I would like Mikael Strandman has asked me why I refer to voluntary self-regulation in the industry as a solution to the problem of the trade in stolen scrap metal, as 10% of the trade in scrap metal still takes place outside this voluntary regulation, and how the new law on money laundering counteracts the trade in stolen scrap metal, since the value of the stolen metal at the time of the transaction rarely amounts to more than EUR 5 000. I would first like to say that I share the view that theft of copper and other metals is a problem that affects society in a number of ways and can also entail major social costs. We have been clear that this must be combated and countered, and we also see an effect on it. In order to further counteract trade in stolen scrap metal, the industry has, on its own initiative, introduced a voluntary cash ban. I have stated in previous replies to Mikael Strandman that the government is positive about business initiatives and that voluntary self-regulation is an alternative or, sometimes, complementary to existing legislation. Self-regulation is an important instrument to avoid over-detailed legislation and benefits by being flexible and able to adapt rapidly to changes and new methods such as DNA marking of metals and digital payment methods. Mikael Strandman has also asked me how the new law on money laundering counteracts trade in stolen scrap metal, as the value of the stolen metal at transaction times rarely amounts to more than EUR 5 000. I would like to point out here that the amount of EUR 5 000 under the law relates not only to each single transaction but also to transactions which may be presumed to be linked. In this way, transactions at a lower amount may also be subject to the requirements of the law if they exceed EUR 5 000 in total. Madam President, I would like Society is increasingly moving towards the digitisation of money transactions, which leads to increased traceability. According to the Act(2017:630) on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing, the entity must take measures to obtain customer knowledge of its customers. If the measures taken by the operator are not sufficient to deal with the risk of money laundering, the operator is obliged to refrain from the transaction. In conclusion, various measures against metal theft and trafficking in scrap metal need to be effectively coordinated. The government will both continue to work on the issue and follow it closely to see if further action is needed.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-150	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answers, Minister. However, the answers are very illogical. To say that it is enough that 90% have a voluntary agreement and that there are 10% who do not care about it is like saying that all of us who want to live an honest life and do not commit crime make an agreement to not be criminals, and then we let the criminals be criminals. This is not how legislation works, but if you want to get to the trade in stolen scrap metal, you have to start by introducing the cash ban. In fact, if they had a ban on the trade in scrap metal, all transactions would be electronic. Through bank transfers, the police and the tax authorities could follow the trail back to the origin of the stolen metal. But they cannot do so today. S crot merchants who have not signed up to the voluntary agreement, often small companies with only a few employees, often cooperate with criminal groups that want to launder money from, for example, drug sales on the street. You have lots of cash and notes that have to enter digital ones and zeros in a bank account to be able to use the money for a little bigger investment. With cash alone, you can't do much today. You can go to the restaurant and you can buy some designer clothes, but you can't buy a new car, an apartment or something like that. What these scrap shops do is buy truck bodies with stolen scrap metal, often by foreign criminal gangs tearing off copper roofs from churches or tearing down electricity lines from our commuter trains with enormous social costs as a result. The scrap dealer pays the stolen goods with black money, sortes it up and cleans the copper. Then he sells the goods to a buyer abroad, perhaps in Spain or Poland, and gets paid and money deposited in his account. Now this black money has been transferred to the company's account. The transfer is apparently completely okay, because the purchaser to whom he has sold is serious. So he's laundered money. The dirty paper money is now in the account, where it looks legal. Should the Tax Agency or the police raid, investigate and try to move on with this and ask the scrap dealer how he has got hold of the copper he has sold to the purchaser, he can, by allowing cash handling, falsify a story that a lot of people and small businessmen have been inside and left copper for quite small amounts – between SEK 5 000 and SEK 20 000 they usually get. It's Nisse in Hökarängen, it's this pipe company and that construction company that's turned in scrap. Since the sums are so small, do not require the Money Laundering Act that the scrap dealer provides information about the companies. The only thing he needs to show the tax authorities and the police are a verdict in the cash register that shows that he has paid out the money.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-157	Madam President, I would like I am interfering in this interpellation debate for two reasons. One reason is that I am on the Transport Committee, and on our table there is, of course, rail transport. A few years ago, in the region where I myself live, we had enormous problems when train traffic was repeatedly stalled. It was because the copper line, the so - called earth pipeline, was stolen by the railway. There were major drift's disruptions that had consequences for the whole of society. It costs money to restore a system that does not work, and it costs money when trains do not roll. This is a huge worry. Those who steal the copper receive a few tens of thousands of dollars for the material, while theft incurs great costs to society. H the percentage is also very simple, because it is cash handling. Criminal networks use this to launder money. In the Government's answer, I would like first of all to say that I share the view that theft of copper and other metals is a problem that affects society in several ways and which can entail great social costs. The government has made it clear that this must be combated and countered. ..................................................... Then, to be honest, I cannot understand why we do not change the legislation and remove cash management. The recycling industry itself calls for the removal of cash handling. The police, too, are appealing for this. I don't understand the government's opposition to taking that step. To prevent criminal activity by any means possible must be a priority in everything we do. Then you can't have a system that lets criminals wash their dirty money. At the very least, efforts must be made to stop it. I come from the haulage industry, and we have a problem with criminal activity. That is something I have raised several times in debates here. Sometimes you get the answer that it is internal control that will get to this. Then I usually answer that the day the criminals engage in internal control to avoid criminality in their business I promise to go on hands between Skövde and Skara. That's a promise I'm making here today, too, because we're never gonna see that. I now sincerely hope that the Government will push this issue forward, change direction and ensure that we get rid of cash management.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-164	Madam President, I would like I think it's important to be careful. 90% of the trade that is taking place is within the organisations that have joined. In addition, there are more than 1 000 additional companies. To paint them all as criminals in this pulpit, I think we should be careful. It sounded like that; I hope and believe that Mikael Strandman does not mean it. Madam President, I would like For a while we could see quite a lot of not least copper theft. That, in turn, caused quite a lot of consequences for the infrastructure, as I said in my interpellation response and as Thomas Morell mentions. Later, we, the industry and not least Trafikverket have worked on trying to reduce this, and we see a positive development. Let me take an example from what Thomas Morell was talking about. In 2012, the number of thefts was 318 to increase to 349. This has subsequently decreased, because 2018, which is the latest figure we have, is 74. It is still 74 thefts too much, but I would nevertheless like to point out that a great deal of the measures taken in the industry and, of course, also DNA labelling, better follow-up and sometimes also the change of materials have made progress in the right direction. The question then, of course, is why we do not go forward with a cash ban. I think you fool yourself a little if you think it solves everything. We know that many of these gangs also carry stolen goods across borders. This would not, of course, be subject to a cash ban, but we must continue to work on criminal law and make use of the technology that enables DNA labelling and monitoring. We must continue to work on the kind of measures that the Finnish Transport Administration has taken to do this. Madam President, I would like Now two representatives of the Swedish Democrats are calling for regulation. It was not so long ago that I stood here in the speaker's chair and debated against one of the representatives of the Swedish Democrats in the Committee on Economic Affairs, which, on the contrary, Madam President, said that we are far too cluttered and should instead simplify by removing rules. The simplification policy and objectives need to be developed and made much more effective, it said. Madam President, I would like In both cases, of course, there is wisdom. It is clear that we should do our utmost to make life difficult and acidic for criminal elements. We are doing this through stricter penalties, police follow-up and more, and at the same time we will find a balance in which we do not unnecessarily impose bureaucracy and regulations that make it difficult for the industry. This is a balancing act which must also change over time, Madam President. What has happened since 2014 when the investigation came? Well, we have got a lot of new technology and increased digitalisation, which means that today there are better opportunities to follow up. Madam President, I would like If it should turn out – and I want to be clear about that, to both the debaters and those who follow the debate – that the positive developments we have seen in recent years are not continuing, or worse, are not going to believe that we will hesitate to regulate further. However, I would point out that no one believes that introducing a general cash ban is enough to prevent theft. It can be a tool, and that is why the ban has been good.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-173	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the answers. The fact that theft has gone down may be due to the fact that much more money is being spent on guarding, but it is a waste of resources. The Minister is right that a cash ban would probably mean that the leagues would try to remove the metal from Sweden. Of course, we need to work in several areas and strengthen customs. That is absolutely necessary. You have to work on several sides. The Minister says there would be more bureaucracy. Let's look at what the recycling industry looks like. They are companies that work to tear down infrastructure, and then metal scrap occurs. The fact that these companies would find it bureaucratically difficult to ban cash makes no sense. All serious companies today let their business go over bill. Even private individuals rarely trade in cash. Having said that, I am certainly not in favour of a cash-free society. Cash is very important, but precisely in areas where we see such problems, we could make it extremely difficult for those who want to be criminals with an alexander. Of course, I do not mean that all these companies are criminals, but those who want to have enormous problems if there was a ban on cash trading. Then the transactions in the purchase of the material would be traceable to tax authorities and the police. It would be much easier in the investigation phase to understand where the copper comes from, whether it comes from a legal demolition of a larger property portfolio or whether there is simply no explanation. Then it is a matter of some kind of theft. From the answers I have received from the Minister, I am still asking that it would be so difficult for the government to introduce the proposal. The government has introduced human resources in restaurants and so on. You have introduced enormous bureaucracy for many small businesses so that they will not be able to cheat with the tax. In this case, however, no serious business owner would be affected. I guess it's not a serious entrepreneur who really wants cash. You want money in your account right away. It's just hard to handle cash. The government has waited so long to do something about the problem. In all investigations, all the bodies have been in favour of a cash ban. The construction industry is constantly subjected to burglary – materials are stolen from there – and has to spend a lot of money on guarding. Recycling industries must monitor their scrapyards. SJ and SL have major problems when cables are stolen and switchboards are destroyed. There will be enormous consequential costs for restoring the infrastructure. For a metal value of a few tens of thousands of dollars it can cost millions to restore. Cultural buildings are destroyed because copper roofs and drains are torn off. The churches have begun to replace the roofs with zinc-plated sheets instead. Is it really reasonable not to introduce a simple measure to tackle the problem?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-180	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answers. I have here a debate article signed by eight CEOs or communications managers of scrap companies. They say that it is now necessary to make efforts to reduce crime. Within the EU, a number of countries, such as England, Belgium and France, have already introduced a cash ban to prevent theft. They appeal to politicians to help society and the established industry get rid of crime, which is so incredibly costly to society. A cash ban affects only the sector that must have an untraceable transaction in order to avoid being seen. When you do not take the measures requested by the industry, you benefit the criminals and their activities. Financial resources are being created for the criminals, who could reasonably easily be curbed by the introduction of the cash ban. I do not understand the reluctance to introduce a measure which, on reasonable grounds, may make it more difficult for those involved in crime. It should be a priority for all of us to really put our foot down against the criminal networks.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-184	Madam President, I would like There is probably no government in modern times that has set so many feet against the criminal networks. We have tightened the penalties for a large number of crimes in our society, and we will continue that work because it is necessary. We have carried out the largest reinforcement of the Swedish police, with the target of 10,000 additional police employees by 2024. We have strengthened customs, and we have strengthened anti-money laundering work. We continuously work in dialogue with industries to introduce new technologies to, for example, track down metals stolen from the infrastructure. Madam President, I would like We see the results of the work, and it is moving in the right direction. Is that enough? No, of course we must continue. It is against this background that I said in my reply that the government will continue its work because it is necessary for several reasons. The debaters have been in on them, both because of the inconvenience they cause and because we want to put away the bones and funding for criminal networks. Should it turn out that further measures need to be taken, I will not hesitate to do so. But I think you fool yourself if you think that only you do this and this is the problem gone. It's not that simple. Instead, it is important to continue to work broadly with these measures. I also believe that we need to look at further criminal sanctions in this area. There should simply be harsher penalties when you are caught with, in this case, stolen goods. Madam President, I would like I understand, of course, that I have no reason to doubt the commitment of Members, but I would just like to point out that it is a bit difficult to see the straight line of the Swedish Democrats. There are two Members here who need more regulation. A few weeks ago I stood here and was accused of not wanting to remove regulations and bureaucracy. Mikael Strandman says that this means no bureaucracy. Of course it does. Not only can laws be tightened up, but there is also a need to build up a follow-up. For the investigation we are now talking about there were many positive referrals, but there were also some doubts. They were just about the role that the IRS should play. For example, the Tax Agency itself was doubtful about this. Madam President, I would like If the trend does not continue in the direction we want – it is going in the right direction – or would be even worse turned around, I am prepared to take further steps to ensure that those who engage in this type of activity are squeezed.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-191	Madam President, I would like It doesn't sound like this is impossible. But first of all, I would like to say that this is not a right-wing – left-wing issue, but a question of common sense. That there would be a lot of bureaucracy, I don't think. Rather, if a general ban on trade in scrap metal is introduced and the police or the Tax Authority raids it, they will be able, in a much easier way than they are today, to ask the scrap dealer to verify and show his purchases. Instead of trying to find out if his story is correct when he tells us that he bought from Sunes pipes and all that is, they can directly see the electronic transactions in the upstream and follow them back to the origin of the metal. Of course, a number of measures are needed; I absolutely agree with that. We thought that customs should be strengthened because this would mean moving the metal abroad in different ways. But the big point of this is that when the Tax Authority or the Police Department raids, there won't be a black hole they can't move on from and where they have to go on the information the scrap dealer gave that he bought from it and it. There will be electronic evidence of what has happened. If there are no electronic transactions, then it is obvious that this scrap dealer has bought the scrap black. There is, like, no verified buyer.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-194	Madam President, I would like We are probably basically in the same opinion, namely that these are activities that we must do our utmost to get rid of. What is positive is that for some time we have seen that we have been able to reduce these thefts and thus other crimes associated with them. As I said, should this development be broken or reversed, we must continue with the tools we have today or develop new tools. I don't hesitate to do that for a second. At the same time, Madam President, we know that in all other contexts where the industry itself is involved and does a job, it is usually quite flexible and efficient. But, as I said, we will continue to follow the issue, and I do not hesitate for a second to take the necessary measures to further complicate the criminal elements that are living on it.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-197	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I intend to propose targeted support for cancelled tourist buses according to the model of the Swedish bus companies and the transport companies. It is a very difficult situation in which our country finds itself in the context of the ongoing pandemic and its consequences. The government is following developments very closely to reduce and prevent further spread of infection, but also to mitigate the effects on jobs and companies. We therefore have a fairly close dialogue with the Swedish business community on this. Many sectors, including bus and coach transport companies, have been severely affected economically as a result of the pandemic. No later than 9 November, i.e. a few weeks ago, the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals presented extensions to several of the major support measures that have been developed during the spring and summer to face the pandemic and mitigate its effects on jobs and businesses. On 5 November, the Government decided on a new turnover aid to individual traders. This aid is of particular importance to a significant part of the bus industry. These companies form an important part of the Swedish transport system. The review continuously analyses the impact of the proposed support measures and monitors developments closely, not least in dialogue with the Swedish business community and its representative organisations.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-201	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Yes, this spring the world and Sweden were affected by the pandemic, a pandemic that has literally knocked away the legs of the bus industry and also many other industries. The bus industry stunned when we had this outbreak and the recommendations came that we should avoid travelling. The bus industry lives by transporting people to places of interest or whatever it may be, so when the pandemic struck, the operation stopped. There are companies that have decreased by 95%. It's almost stationary, you might say. There will be a life after the pandemic, and then society must work. We must have functioning companies that can start up again and carry out the transport that we will need, because, whatever the case, people will be able to start travelling again when we are through the crisis. Now we see a little light in the tunnel in the vaccination discussions. It may be a question of general vaccination, perhaps in the summer, and then we will see how quickly we can get society back on track. But then it wants there to be companies that can carry out the transport that society needs. The bus industry is also a support function for rail transport – a fairly comprehensive support function, I would say, because when there is a disruption in rail traffic, buses are called in to replace the trains which then stand still. But it does not spread across all the companies, but it is they who lie along the major railway lines that can get part of this. It is not enough for you to be able to carry on your business or have security in your business, but it has to do otherwise. Then, in a normal market, when the business operates as it usually does, you can buy on vehicles when you have increased transport and sell of vehicles when the transports become fewer. The natural regulator does not exist today. If I sit with maybe four five buses and have stops in the business, I have to do everything I can to reduce my costs. But there's no market I can sell off a vehicle, because who's gonna buy it? The others are also standing still. The natural regulator, the natural possibility of managing flows with money, does not exist today. The emergency brake has really hit the business. Many companies are bleeding, and many will succumb if there will be no support. The Swedish Bus Association has presented a proposal on how to overwinter. A bus costs money even if it's off. There are capital costs in the vehicle, so even if you do not have taxes and insurance and such things to pay, there are other things that have to be paid.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-211	Madam President, I would like This is undoubtedly a tough time – tough and very sad for those who have lost relatives and a time of suffering for those affected by the disease, especially for those who have suffered over time. We know that some people are particularly affected by this disease. Madam President, I would like Add to that the shock that met our economy, which I think Thomas Morell describes well when it comes to the bus industry. Unfortunately, I think that the description could apply to many sectors: bus, taxi and air transport, yes, the whole transport industry. Parts of the industry stood still during the spring and parts of the summer. The restaurant, hotel and event industry, yes, the whole tourism industry – I could continue for a long time. This is the situation we have, both in our country and in many other parts of the world. It is, Madam President, against this background that we should see the enormous support measures that the government has proposed to Parliament and which the Parliament has supported in almost all its parts. We are talking about hundreds of billions of taxpayers' money, which we have used precisely to mitigate the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship. The effect was that after an initial rise in the number of bankruptcies in the spring and early summer we could see a stabilisation in the autumn. I think it was crucial that we could have a number of support measures in place. In the same way, Madam President, workers have been hit quite hard. Unemployment has risen sharply, and it has, of course, been very difficult for many of the people who have lost their jobs – especially as it has affected sectors that we know often employ many young people and also newcomers, that is, those who are not particularly established in the labour market. Now, Madam President, we are seeing an increase in the number of infected people, both in our country and in most of Europe. This, of course, means that we have continued to take steps to support our business community. As I said in my previous reply, we decided earlier in the month to extend a further number of these measures, and the other day we announced that we are now also looking at further extending both the turnover and conversion aid. We are looking at deferrals, and we have also extended the support that may have been most important for the Swedish business community, namely short-term support, until next summer. Madam President, I would like We do this because we need to stand together and help each other in very difficult times. We will continue to do so. Thomas Morell refers to the proposal from the bus industry. I can assure Thomas Morell that almost all sectors have different proposals and ideas on how to mitigate the effects. We are continuing this dialogue, and I am not ruling out any action. Although one can hope for the best, that is to say that there will be a vaccine that is potent and can be distributed among the population, we cannot plan on this basis. We have to start from what we know, and that is why we continue to work on and gradually either make concrete proposals or announce future proposals to continue supporting the Swedish business community so that it can hopefully overwinter. Having said that, Madam President, I believe that we all basically realise that we will have a negative impact on this. We have to do our best to ensure that they are as small as possible, but unfortunately they will be.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-221	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Hope is the last thing that abandons man, and it is good. After all, if you follow the development that is taking place on the vaccine side, it looks hopeful. There will be good results in the tests you make. The last thing I heard was about a vaccine that could be stored at +4 degrees instead of having it cooled to − 70. So certainly there are light points, but there must also be light points for the companies that are suffering from the situation we have today. If our society is to be able to restart and function, it wants the companies to remain. We can't start with nothing. Passenger transport is extremely important for the entire function of society. Whether you are travelling by train, bus, air or taxi, transport is an important basic bolt for our entire society and the function it has. Therefore, it is so furiously important that such important social structures have an opportunity to survive. If they don't, it will be much more difficult to restart the rest of society. Let us hope for a moment that the vaccine will come so that general vaccination can take place somewhere in the second half of next year. Then you can see the light in the tunnel and plan a little bit for how to do to overwinter until then. The bus industry has put forward a very good proposal in terms of keeping entrepreneurs a little under their arms. The buses are standing still. And a vehicle that doesn't produce – the bus is a production device – costs money. The bus industry has submitted a proposal for aid of SEK 1,050 per vehicle and per day it has been cancelled, provided it has been cancelled for at least a week. It is a rather good proposal that allows entrepreneurs to have a reasonable chance of overwintering so that they remain when we re-roll our society. I know that the aviation industry is also in the same situation, as well as the taxi industry and many others. Everyone wants support and help. It is taxpayers' money, but these entrepreneurs are also taxpayers. Our tax system must be structured in such a way that it acts as a safety net, whether you are an entrepreneur or an employee, when something like this strikes. There was no human being who could imagine the effects this would have when we heard the first reports of covid-19. But it has had an impact in our society that no one could foresee. Therefore, you have to think a little outside the box when it comes to dealing with this.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-228	Madam President, I would like It is not just a matter of thinking outside the box, but also of acting resolutely and quickly. I am in my ninth year as a member of a Swedish government, and I think I have never experienced a period such as this, in which we have faced such a deep and broad crisis with action at such a speed and on such a scale. It was only a few weeks before we could come up with short-term aid, which is still valid and will continue to apply and which supports both companies and employees so that we do not have to get even more unemployed than we have already seen. The Institute of Economics estimates that at least a few hundred thousand jobs have been saved in this way. We have introduced conversion aid, rental aid, state takeover of parts of sick pay liability, deferral of taxes and contributions, reduced social security contributions up to the thirtieth employee and so on – a variety of direct subsidies and guarantees and credits of various kinds. Even for a country with well-managed public finances, which has had surpluses in public finances until now, the resources available are not infinite, even if they are large. So, with hundreds of billions of direct aid of various kinds combined with guarantees of some 500 billion more, it is clear that we are making efforts. And we are doing this precisely for the reason that Thomas Morell is talking about, namely that we are helping each other to overwinter. Madam President, I can assure Thomas Morell that I am a very optimistic person. I really believe in man and that when we stand there in an emergency, we manage to do something that was not possible in the past: to produce a potent vaccine in less than a year. Of course I hope so. I think we all do. Somewhere I think we all feel that we can probably do this with the pandemic now; that's enough. But we're not there. Even if there is now positive news, we cannot work on the assumption that this will end until next year or next autumn. I hope so; I think we all hope so. But we have to start from the worst and hope for the best. Yes, we will continue to support the Swedish business community. We often do this through general measures, and that is because many of the general measures are easier to implement. They are easier from the point of view of state aid and also from a legal point of view. They cover a large part of the Swedish business community, and in view of the continuing pandemic, we have just announced that we will extend them. We do not rule out the need to take further measures that may be specific. As I said, we are in a great deal of dialogue with industries and companies, and I can assure Thomas Morell that we are getting many good proposals from the industries precisely on the basis of the rather difficult situation in which they are unable to produce or have any customers. We must constantly balance so that we can use taxpayers' money wisely and also ensure that as many of our businesses and jobs as possible can overwinter this miserable pandemic.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-235	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for everything! We are in a difficult position, and there are many good entrepreneurs out there who are really struggling to make the companies survive and to create the conditions for them to run the companies further with their employees. Today they need the help of the government. I receive reports that it is difficult to apply for aid, and they are not paid to the extent necessary. The effects are quite dramatic. Between January and September 2020 there was a quadrupling of the number of redundancies in the transport sector compared to 2019. Most redundancies took place in March and April, but we now see that it is increasing again and that the curve is moving up. In other words, there is much to say that things are going to get worse, and the risk is that even more people will lose their jobs before it turns around. If there is then no job to get back to when it turns around, the damage becomes even worse. Here I sincerely hope that the Government and the Government will do what can be done to save the companies, to listen to the industry and also to take on board the proposals that exist to get the bus industry to overwinter and survive this very difficult situation. At this point, the restrictions that apply in society are entirely in the hands of the people: people should not travel either within regions or across regional boundaries. Thus, the customer base for the bus companies disappears to almost 100 per cent. They cannot do this in a longer perspective.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-239	Madam President, I would like This is probably the case for all companies: if you have a situation where you cannot operate and therefore have no revenue, it will be extremely difficult in the long run. We all know that. It is precisely against this background that we have introduced a large number of support measures, and we continue with them and extend them in order to be able to face the effects of the pandemic. Thomas Morell now says it's complicated. We just had a discussion about the importance of keeping criminal elements away. When we use hundreds of billions of taxpayers' money to support the Swedish business community, we cannot ignore the fact that it also attracts fortune seekers and criminal elements. Then it is important to find a balance, so that the tax money we use to support the Swedish business community just goes to healthy and honest companies and does not end up in the hands of leagues and organised crime. A regulatory framework must then be in place to ensure this as far as possible. Then it must not turn over so that it becomes so complicated that it cannot be used. It is this balancing act that we are trying to do. I'll be humble and say it's clear that it's always a little harder when you do something new for the first time than when you have some experience with it. We have gradually screwed the rules so that they will work. Madam President, I would like We're in a difficult position. We will remain in a difficult position until we have a vaccine that can be distributed among the population, so that we can take out the pandemic. In the meantime, we will continue to help each other. But I would be dishonest if I were to stand here as Minister for Enterprise and say that we will be able to face every negative consequence that the pandemic has on business and jobs. Unfortunately, we will not be able to. There will be no country. But we will do our utmost to mitigate the effects, so that we can emerge stronger from the misery that we are in right now.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-244	Madam President, I would like Mikael Larsson has asked me if I intend to ensure that Postnord conducts a dialogue with relevant stakeholders in view of changes in the postal distribution. A well-functioning postal service throughout the country is an important issue for the government. Swedish people should be able to trust the post office and that the letters will arrive in time. It is the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency that is the authority appointed by the government to supervise the postal sector, and the agency conducts a close dialogue with all postal operators, of which Postnord is the largest. Furthermore, the company's Board and management are responsible for the company's organisation and management of its affairs, as well as the day-to-day management of the company's operational operations. The Government, through the State's ownership policy, has high demands for companies with state ownership to act in such a way that they enjoy public confidence. As responsible minister for the management of state-owned companies, I conduct an ongoing dialogue with Postnord, including on the importance of the company conducting an open and constructive dialogue with its stakeholders, especially in a situation where we are going through a fairly large structural change.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-248	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. After all, the Government considered that there was a major and rapid change in the postal market and linked to mail and newspapers. We see that the mail volumes are falling while the amount of packages is increasing. This is something that has been happening for many years, and it is happening quickly throughout the country. Interpellation is mainly about customer service. I have full respect and understanding that the Government will not be able to go in and answer in detail on each individual matter, but I would still like to mention this as an example of an attitude and a customer service that does not feel okay from a state-owned company. In my municipality of residence, Mark kommun, there is a residential area in Kinna with both municipal housing and housing owned by a community association where you can be a member. There you want to move the mailboxes together into a postbox collection, which the residents are positive about, because they understand that the letter volumes and perhaps also the newspaper volumes are falling. However, the crux of this case is that one as a joint society also has a common law to take into account. There it is regulated by surveying that one cannot put together a post office collection. In a news item in TV4 news on October 24, 2020, a production manager at Postnord spoke in the style of: If you don't do what we say, you can pick up your mail at a business centre, and just follow orders. That you speak in this way without having come up with a solution that suits everyone – it should fit Postnord in this case, but it should also suit the residents – does not feel okay from a government company. In this case, it is about Postnord, but it might as well have been a government authority or another state company. The question is: Does the Minister intend to ensure that Postnord conducts a dialogue with the relevant actors in view of a change in the delivery of mail? In the Government's response, one can read that one conducts an ongoing dialogue on the importance of the company having an open and constructive discussion. My question was, above all, to ensure that this actually happens. I would like the Minister to develop the answer to my question a little bit: does the Minister intend to ensure that Postnord conducts a dialogue with the stakeholders in view of a change in the delivery of mail?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-253	Madam President, I would like Postnord is a company that is a merger of the old Swedish post and the old Danish post. The merger took place over a decade ago and was, not least in this House, controversial when it was carried out by the previous government. This happened at a time when the fairly rapid change in the postal structure, not least through digitalisation, had begun, especially in Denmark. Not least through legislative changes, the volumes of Danish operations declined quite rapidly. Of course it has made the situation very tough for Postnord. I think everyone understands that it will be difficult if you do not have revenue. The development that we saw in Denmark, of course, we also saw in Sweden, albeit somewhat later. The decline in letter volumes that started here too some time ago has now accelerated. I think we all understand why. We are sending more and more electronic e-mails to each other and fewer and fewer fixed letters. The public will also be digitised more. As a result, there will be less and less such volumes. This, of course, leads to a sharp decrease in the revenues from mail. At the same time, package volumes are increasing for the same reason, just as Mikael Larsson says. This, of course, means that this company has had to make quite large and sometimes painful changes. Some have gone well. Other people haven't done it. It is clear that we are continuously working on the structure that exists when it comes to a Danish-Swedish post. We work continuously to try to support and help the company to get into the new time – you have your whole history of mail and everything that that means. I understand, of course, that Mikael Larsson as a local Member of Parliament raises a question from Mark's municipality. As Mikael Larsson knows, I cannot comment on individual matters in this way, but I can assure you in general that we are having a continuous discussion with Postnord about the structural change that is taking place. Of course, we place quite high demands on state-owned companies or state-owned companies to set an example and make sure that they do as well as possible, but at the same time I would like to point out that the merger with the Danish postal service started a period that has been very difficult. That trip isn't over yet. We are still in the middle of a structural change, and it will continue. In close dialogue with the board and management of the post office, we will continue to support and help so that structural change is as successful as possible for both the customers and the company.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-260	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Of course, we should remember that Postnord is basically a good company. It's a good label. I myself have had the privilege of, among other things, making study visits at Rosersberg's postal terminal. It is a fantastic activity that is being conducted. The company has a fantastic network to distribute letters and packages in the country. I have also spent a whole day with a country mailman out on the last loop to get the letter out to the end customer. It is a good way to get the impression and insight into how it really works and should work. From that visit I can guarantee that it worked very well. I share the idea that things have to change-- I don't think anyone's saying anything against it. But you need to have constructive dialogue once you go in and make a change. It can be anything from changing routes to making letterbox collections. It can be about the discussion that is now going on that is linked to the bi-day distribution and how it can affect customers, perhaps especially in rural areas. This may be about letters to entrepreneurs, but perhaps also about the discussion that is linked to the newspaper industry. I am convinced that the Government is also in favour of this. The important thing is to have constructive dialogue, constructive dialogue, so that one party does not rush the other way. It is important that both are as satisfied as possible. Both parties in this case, which is in Kinna, may not be able to be completely satisfied. But you have to be able to sit down and really find a solution before one party rushes away quickly. I understand that the Government cannot comment on this case, but here we have another legislation, common law, to take into account. The fact that one as a state-owned company runs on and believes that one does not need to take it into account, I do not think that sounds very good in the ears of the Swedish people. I don't think it sounds very good to talk about trust in government agencies and corporations.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-264	Madam President, I would like I think we are in complete agreement. You make this kind of sometimes quite painful changes. They are painful because the business model is not rigged for this. They are painful for the staff, who, of course, are experiencing quite major changes. They are also painful because the infrastructure itself is changing. People who are used to it may feel insecure before they are told. It is clear that we will try to make sure that the company does this as well as possible. That is why we are making the demands we are making. On this we are in complete agreement and we will continue to do so. This does not mean that there will be no incidents that can be described as deficiencies. But we must try to help to make sure that things are corrected as soon as possible.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-266	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is positive that the Government understands the problem in this regard. It may, as I have said, be a series of events that have affected this. I think you basically need to ask yourself a question. It is an issue that we must consider whether we are in the Swedish parliament, in the government, in municipalities or in regions: Who is for whom? It is not Sweden's inhabitants that are for the state and, in this case, Postnord, but it is the state and, in this case, Postnord that is for the inhabitants of Sweden. I believe that, regardless of the change or development that is taking place. We're in digitalization. We now notice, with Corona, that it has meant a lot. We have been able to change society in a completely different way. It is nevertheless important that trust exists and that trust is maintained. It is extremely important to have confidence and trust in the public sector, because that is what somehow represents us on the big arenas. Once again, I thank the Government for its answer. I will continue to follow the issue, both the local matter and Postnord nationally. I'm on the Transport Committee. I will, of course, also follow what is linked to digitalisation and customer satisfaction and the issue of attitude, which we are dealing with.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-270	Madam President, I would like It was so wise expressed by Mikael Larsson that I have nothing more to add than a thank you for the debate.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-271	Madam President, I would like Ellen Juntti has asked the Minister for Justice and Migration whether he sees any risk that the restrictions and differences between detention periods provide a certain increase in incentives for older criminals to exploit persons under 18 years of age to commit crimes and, if so, what measures he will take to prevent this from happening. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Crime in criminal networks should be suppressed with the full power of society. We will do so on a broad front by combating both the crimes and the causes of the crimes. With the 34-point programme, we implement the largest package against gang crime ever in Sweden. The programme includes actions in the short and long term. These are new tools for the authorities, tougher penalties and measures against the culture of silence. V i also implements long-term efforts to strangle the gangs' recruitment. Time limits for detention do not change this. In many countries, including Denmark, there is already a longer limit to the duration of detention. The introduction of time limits for detention would therefore not be unique for Sweden. On the contrary, there has been repeated international criticism of Sweden for the lack of deadlines. The criticism has come from the Special Committee of the Council of Europe against Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (CPT), the United Nations Committee against Torture (CAT) and the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child (CRC). That criticism takes the government seriously. However, the government has been careful to design the proposed deadlines so that the investigating authorities' ability to investigate serious crimes does not deteriorate. What has been proposed, therefore, is not a fixed time limit, but time limits that may be exceeded under certain conditions. Examples of cases where time limits may be exceeded have been stated in the bill to be just when the crime is part of organised or gang-related crime. Another example is when the crime has international connections. The proposal on time limits should therefore not provide incentives for gangs to force young people to commit serious crimes on their behalf. It is also worth mentioning that the measures contained in the 34-point programme are aimed, in whole or in part, at young offenders and young people at risk of developing crime. These include improved measures when children are suspected of crime, but also preventive measures through increased opportunities for social services to intervene and additional resources for LVU placements. There is also an ongoing debate on, among other things, more stringent penalties for those who involve young people in crime.
i-RsyBxmJWEd5MYg7NQZwd5F	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Damberg, for your answer! The government proposes that a suspect be detained for no longer than six months until charges have been brought. For those under 18, the corresponding three months are proposed. Times may be exceeded but only if there are exceptional reasons. These are very high demands before reaching extraordinary reasons. The proposal of a maximum of six months was given back reading in the Committee on Legal Affairs, which instead proposed nine months. The Council rejected the proposal in nine months' time because the basis was too poor. We Moderates have always opposed the time limits for detention. The draft law is based on crime that was in force five years ago. It seems that the government has missed the dramatic increase in serious crime in recent years. We didn't see it coming, as Löfven One said in an interview. The starting point of the bill is not to impair the ability of law enforcement authorities to investigate crimes. Of course, detention time should be as short as possible, but there are other ways to achieve this. Madam President, I would like Serious violence has reached historically high levels in Sweden. A total of 333 shootings and 259 blasts occurred in 2019, which is a higher full-year figure than any previous year. By 2020 will be even worse. The first ten months show that the shootings have increased by 20% compared to last year. So far, 37 people have been murdered, compared to 31 in 2019, and further has been added in November. Murder and attempted murder with firearms has become everyday crime in Sweden. In fact, I am devastated by the developments in Sweden, because the violence has become extremely severe. A 12-year-old is shot down with automatic weapons. A mother gets shot in the head when she holds her baby in her arms. A bomb attack is taking place at a health centre, where an 85-year-old is seriously injured. For the last ten years, 14 innocent people have been murdered just because they've been in the wrong place. This development is very serious and must be stopped. One of the most important tools is detention. I have met several juvenile prosecutors and juvenile police officers who say that nowadays it is as common that gang killers are under 18 years of age as they are over 18 years of age. This means that if the three-month limit is introduced, in many cases the suspect will remain silent for three months and then be released. He can go out in freedom and threaten witnesses and plaintiffs to silence. As a result, the police investigation is closed, the victim has no redress and the perpetrator can continue on his criminal path. The D.A.'s office warns against this. They say that it is not uncommon for offenders under the age of 18 to commit crimes involving older people. In these cases there is a high risk of collusion, which means that it would be devastating for the entire criminal investigation if the detention is lifted for one of the perpetrators. These consequences can be expected to be more frequent the shorter the time that suspects under the age of 18 may be detained. The Saco Association at the District Attorney's Office writes something similar. They believe that young people will be attracted to gang crime much more. Police are on the same line. They believe that if you do not write that it should be a clarification of an overall assessment, they believe that the detention period for young people should be six months instead of three. Overall, the government should realise that it is a bad bill that will impair the ability of law enforcement authorities to investigate crimes. The proposal should simply be withdrawn. Or does the government not trust Sweden's police and prosecutors, who say that it will make it more difficult for them to investigate serious and serious crimes?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-287	Madam President, I would like It is important that we do everything we can to repress gang violence and serious organised crime in Sweden, and that is why it is positive that we have a consensus on many new measures and also new tools for police and prosecutors who will make their everyday life and reality even easier in the future so that they can do their job as effectively as possible. It is a bit complicated to have this interpellation debate right now because the committee is dealing with the proposal for a proposal later this week. We'll see what the Riksdag finds out. But the government bill is on the table, and it is the Riksdag that must deal with it. Therefore, I will answer the fundamental questions related to this, and then we will see what the Riksdag decides on. The proposal that the Riksdag itself first worked out, where a new limit for detentions was to be found, was sent to the Law Council. I note that they wrote that the committee's legislative referral did not provide the basis for the conclusion that the government's proposed deadline, with the possibility of exceeding for exceptional reasons, would impair the conditions for effective investigation of serious and difficult to investigate crimes. You don't have to think so, but the Law Council noted that this was one of the conclusions that led them to reject the amendment of the bill. These are not fixed deadlines, and you can think what you want about this. We get international criticism that we do not have any time limits for detentions, as many other countries have, including Denmark, which is often discussed in Sweden. We can go through extraordinary reasons. What do we write in the bill? What are the situations where time limits are allowed to exceed the time limits? This is when the crime is particularly difficult to investigate and, for example, has international links, when the crime is part of organised crime or gang crime, which we write out straight away, if the investigators are deliberately led on the wrong track or otherwise sabotage the investigation in order to get the time to go or if new investigative measures are requested at the final stage of the investigation which could have been requested earlier. I mean, and I believe that the Law Council also believes that with the exceptions that exist, there are no fixed deadlines. If you are opposed in this way or if you are young and part of organised crime, as in the example, it is precisely such a case that we point out in the preparatory work and in the legislation and that there should be exceptions to the deadline. We will see how Parliament deals with this issue. I note that there is support for quite a few of the points in the Government's proposal, at least so far in the parliamentary process. We will see what Parliament lands in when the committee meets later this week.
i-UGzZrBp7hZ4k8C7XHSZDSz	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Damberg, for your answer! It is true that it is a bit tricky to have this debate right now, but that is what happened. Neither the government nor I knew when it would be. One can only conclude that the whole committee was in favour of raising from six months to nine, including the Social Democrats and the Green Party. So it was not just the opposition that thought it was wrong with a limit of six months. As far as exceptional reasons are concerned, the consultation bodies have also taken this into account. For example, the Saco Association at the Prosecutor's Office says that they first of all think that the whole proposal breathes a distrust of prosecutors. A prosecutor requests a person in custody when there are grounds for it, not for fun. They oppose the introduction of time limits for detention. Crime is becoming more and more advanced with gang crime and international connections," they say. The possibility of extending the detention period, i.e. the exceptional reasons that Damberg is talking about and which will be introduced, is very limited because there is a demand for very high penalty value, they also say. The prosecutors and the police authorities have written in their referrals that they see a risk that extreme reasons are such a high requirement that they will not be able to investigate serious crime. Nevertheless, it is the Police and Prosecution Authority that is doing the job when it comes to investigations. So they see a danger and a risk of this being made more difficult. That was the starting point of the government's proposal, that it would not make things any more difficult. But those who work in the field, the Police Authority and the Prosecution Authority, say that there is a risk that extreme reasons are too high a requirement simply. I'll say a few words about the young. The Prosecution Authority is also opposed to a three-month deadline for young people. They want it to be six months instead, if deadlines are to be imposed at all. Many studies show that young people – 10 – 12 years old – are forced into gang crime. They may be banned from their neighborhood or subjected to violence. Many warn that setting time limits and there is too much difference in the time spent in detention between adults and young people will increase pressure on young people. Gang criminals will force even more young people to commit crimes. This is what the Swedish Police Authority, the Prison Service, Helsingborg District Court and the Swedish Bar Association say. The Swedish Bar Association even writes that there is an obvious risk of this. The Prosecution Authority writes that there have already been a great many cases where children have been exploited by older people to commit crimes or to assume responsibility for serious crimes such as murder, serious gun crimes and serious drug offences. It is said that if the difference becomes too great, the risk of child abuse increases even more. It is therefore the view of five large consultative bodies that there is an increased risk of young people being exploited. I therefore find it very strange that the government does not see this risk increasing. It's crime prevention to make sure gang criminals don't force children in. Children should devote themselves to playing floorball and other things. But they are forced and threatened to start carrying weapons and narcotics for gang criminals. It is crime prevention to ensure that this is not the case. I therefore wonder how the government can turn a blind eye to this risk, especially when five heavy referrals have pointed this out. Where is the child's perspective in the whole thing?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-303	Madam President, I would like There are two discussions here. On the one hand, it is a matter of principle, if we are to have time limits at all. If you do not like it, you are critical regardless of the time limit. Then there are always limits, and there are always problems with that. On the other hand, we are repeatedly receiving strong international criticism because we do not have it. The government has taken this on board and is doing as many other countries, including countries to which we usually refer when we talk about gang crime and which have deadlines. That is why we have tabled this proposal. We think it is well balanced. But you can have comments on it. It is not possible to say both that it is a problem that these particular reasons should apply to serious crime and that it will have a major impact on children in situations where there is no serious crime. It is only in the case of serious crime that there are so long detention periods. It is not the case that prosecutors keep children in custody for a long time unless it is serious crime. It must be serious to have long detention periods. That is why it is limited to this. This is where there are long detention periods and not otherwise. I think we have a balanced proposal. The particularly difficult crimes identified are precisely part of organised and gang-related crime. This is the first example that we list in the bill. If a young person has been used in gang-related crime, that is one reason why you can have longer detention periods. Moreover, if crime has international links, which much of gang crime has linked to drug smuggling, arms smuggling and so on, there are also reasons for longer detention periods. There may also be reasons for longer detention periods if someone is obstrusing the investigation or working in other ways to try to trixe with the system in the final stage. I therefore think that we have taken a high step in this direction. There may be different views on this. But what is really serious is that we see the trend that young people are increasingly being used in criminal matters. There is a trend today. It has been going on for a long time. It has more to do with the issues of criminal value. That is why we are making changes in this regard. We are abolishing the penalty rebate for young adults in the event of serious crime so that they are not used for it. However, we are also looking at new youth sanctions, and we have an investigation that looks at more stringent penalties for those who involve young people in crime. It is they who involve young people who should have the punishment. Involvement of children and young people in this way in criminal activities will result in increased penalties for this in the future. This is what we are investigating. That is why we are taking this issue seriously.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-307	Madam President, I would like I thank Mikael Damberg for this. When Mikael Damberg speaks of extraordinary reasons, I shall once again refer to what the Saco Association at the District Attorney's Office writes. The Prosecution Authority has written its referral after they have taken part in this with extraordinary reasons and supported and wet this. Sacoföreningen writes: The possibility of extending detention periods that will be introduced is very limited as there is a requirement for very high penalty value. Then they have taken note of what you have written about gang crime and international connections. This is what the prosecutors write, and it is the prosecutors who work every day on this. Even the Police Authority, which is the other authority that works in the field, on the floor, with this, says similar things. They say it can be too high a requirement. I trust more that those who work with this in their everyday lives can do this. In addition, I would like to say that I think it is very bad timing to propose these detention periods, given what I have said about serious crime. I am convinced that the Swedish people want more gang criminals to sit behind bars, regardless of whether they are younger or older than 18 years. The government has often said that you should destroy gang crime and do what is needed. But I think that many times is a lot of empty words. We Moderates, for example, want to introduce double penalties for gang criminals. The government doesn't want to do that. We want to lower the threshold for compulsory detention from the minimum sentence of two years to one year. The government doesn't want to do that. We want to lower the threshold for more young people to be detained, and we want to introduce special juvenile detention. We have seen that many of the gang criminals are under 18 years of age. They're not pigeons. The government doesn't want to do that. We also have many other good proposals that I can come back to. However, I would like to thank you for the debate, and I would like Mikael Damberg to answer the questions I asked.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-315	Madam President, I would like This is not the last time that we are discussing gang crime, because this is one of the most important issues in our country right now. That is why the government tightens up penalties, gives new powers to the authorities and breaks the culture of silence that is a major problem in this context. But we are also making important preventive efforts, so that we prevent these criminal gangs from recruiting new people into gang crime. In that case, more stringent penalties for using children and young people in criminal activities are very important. The commission is working on proposals to prevent this trend from continuing. I think we fully agree that long detention periods are not an end in themselves. It's good for the police, the prosecutors, the victims and the court proceedings that the detention periods are as short as possible. But detention periods may be needed. Restrictions may be needed to lead investigations into ports and convict people. There should also be exceptions to these restrictions. There must be no fixed time limits. At that point, I believe that the government has identified the areas that are currently being highlighted, namely gang crime, international links or whether people are making investigations more difficult. But we will see what the Riksdag will find out in its treatment during the next week.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-318	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked the Minister for Justice and Migration if the government considers that an investigation commission is needed to examine the so-called balcony girls. Amineh Kakabaveh has also asked the Minister of Justice and Migration whether the government will set up an investigation to identify the existence of the issue of a virginity certificate and the conduct of so-called virginity operations, and whether he considers that new criminal law legislation is needed in order to better combat the standards of innocence. The interpellation has been handed over to me. All forms of honor-related violence and oppression are unacceptable and do not belong in Swedish society. The government has therefore taken many measures to combat honour-related violence and repression. Just in case Amineh Kakabaveh points out, on 1 July this year, a special child marriage crime was introduced, which can lead to imprisonment for a maximum of four years. It also introduced a penalty for crimes with honorary motives and an exit ban to protect children from going abroad to enter into child marriage or genital mutilation. On 7 October 2020, the Honorary Crime Investigation presented its report proposing, among other things, that it introduce a special offence of honour. The report is now being referred, and the period of referral expires on 19 January 2021. With regard to the issue of an investigation commission to investigate, among other things, any shortcomings in police investigations, I would like to stress that training professionals in the judicial authorities is an important part of combating honour-related violence and repression. The Police Authority has therefore established a national competence network against honour-related crimes and has also developed updated methodological support for the police's work against this. In addition, the Police Authority has carried out competence enhancement efforts for pre-trial investigators and other decision-makers within the Agency. The Swedish Prosecution Authority has also developed a new method support and a new handbook for prosecutors on honor-related crime. In the regulation letter for 2020, the Government has given the Police Authority and the Swedish Prosecution Authority reporting requirements regarding the development work carried out in the agencies to increase the conditions for clearing up crimes with honorary motives and raise the competence of the organisations regarding these crimes. On the question of an investigation into the existence of virginity certificates and operations, the following can be noted. In 2018, the National Board of Health and Welfare produced a communication sheet that makes it clear that virginity checks and certificates of innocence are incompatible with Swedish law. Anyone who does not meet the requirements of the Patient Safety Act for science and proven experience risks being criticized and to have their professional ID withdrawn. The Health and Care Inspectorate supervises the healthcare professionals and is obliged to report to the prosecutor if the authority is able to suspect that a criminal offence for which a prison sentence is prescribed has been committed. Here, too, I would like to highlight the importance of increased knowledge of honour-related violence and oppression. Increased knowledge in the professions concerned can make us better at reaching those at risk in time. The Government has therefore commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to provide social services and health care with in-depth training on honour-related violence and repression including genital mutilation. Finally, on the issue of combating virginity standards under criminal law, I would like to emphasise the following. If a virginity check has taken place without consent or if the victim has been under 15 years of age, the check may be considered as a sexual offence, such as rape or rape of a child, even though it has no sexual purpose. Sexual crimes are a high priority for the government, and after the 2018 reform Sweden has the strictest sexual crime legislation we have ever had. However, efforts to ensure comprehensive and clear criminal law protection against all forms of sexual abuse are continuing, and in January 2020 the Council instructed a special investigator to consider further measures in the direction of strengthening and clarifying sexual violations. In addition to these measures, the government has taken a large number of other measures in this area. Combating honour-related violence and repression will continue to be a high priority for the government.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-329	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg, for the answer and the presentation of the government's various legislative proposals and efforts! It is excellent that the government does not accept the culture of honour and the different norms of honour repression in our society. Over the past 20 years, several young girls and women in the culture of honor have been murdered or forced to die by falling from a balcony, but in almost all cases except in one, the title has been suicide. In the Södertälje case, the woman survived, thank God. But the perpetrator was able to leave the country, and no one is thus identified for the crime. In almost all these cases, it has been explicit about girls or young girls with immigrant backgrounds. There's nothing to hide. In cases that I myself know or have been told about, the girls have been under the supervision of both social services and school when they were younger. The question is why there are shortcomings in society and the authorities among themselves in terms of cooperation between police, social services and schools. It has therefore been difficult, and often it has been hidden behind a lack of knowledge. These murders of immigrant girls, who have died from falling, being pushed or forced down from a balcony, have been allowed to be called suicide attempts. This, in my opinion, is a disgrace in our legal history. It is good that the police acquire knowledge of honour-related repression and violence and make efforts to increase education for several sectors of society. For 20 years we have invested billions – SEK 100 billion – after the murders of Fadime and Pela. Regardless of government, there has been a strong will to try to legislate and ban, for example, genital mutilation, child marriage and virginity standards. In fact, there is a law since 1982 that prohibits genital mutilation. But last summer, a professional genital mutilationist in Kenya spoke about Swedish girls being her victim there. So we have different legislations that do not work. There have often been hidden behind a lack of knowledge. What I am calling for is an investigation commission that is studying deaths that are not investigated as murders and cases that are written off as suicides. It is not in contradiction to the creation of a national competence team within the police. My proposal for an investigation commission is not about a police investigation, but about a review of balcony girls where there are attempted murder. This is what I want us to see to it. Studies have been carried out in the past that have led to, for example, good proposals. One of them was the then government gave the former Youth Board, the current MUCF, a mission that resulted in the report Gift Against Their Will. After that, we opened our eyes and ears to the existence of child marriages, forced marriages, and much more. I mean, it's possible to do this. We have different systems for measuring crime. I hope I can be told if the government wants to do this.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-337	Madam President, I would like I would first like to thank her for the interpellation of Amineh Kakabaveh, but also for her very long struggle for these issues. This is a Member of Parliament who has deep knowledge and who knows exactly what she is talking about when she talks about this type of oppression that is still too frequent in our country, even though we have known and worked on the issues for a long time. I am therefore listening with great interest to Mr Aminehs's experience and input into this. What I was trying to highlight in the interpellation response was a little broad, but it was because we wanted to tell you this. The basis for many of the authorities' inadequate handling of the issues has been that they have not known what it has been about and that they have not really had expectations on our part to take the issues seriously. I believe that a major change and reversal has now taken place in terms of both our governance of the authorities and our missions to them. They now have their own skills and cannot blame them for not knowing. They also work with educational efforts and now method support to really know how to tackle it all if there are discussions about, for example, balcony girls and how the police should do it. I would like to give an example of this. The latest up-to-date method support by the police, which was recently updated, writes as follows: In the event of incidents that are at first sight or according to the reporter, the police should always bear in mind that this may be a masked crime. One example is so-called balcony girls where the dead or injured person is reported to have jumped or fallen from the balcony but the person has in fact been pushed or forced to jump. For example, in the case of traffic accidents, burns or falls, it is important to carefully examine circumstances. It is important to always clarify who was present at the time of the accident. Then it ends with: If you have the slightest doubt about whether it is an accident, suicide or not, you should always handle the event as a crime. The police's methodological support is much clearer on these issues than before so that you should not lose out or miss out on these possible crimes. The question was also about a possible investigation commission. You can think about how to do such a thing. I have noticed that some have also been done at universities. These include surveys. For example, Associate Professor Annika Norée of Stockholm University has written an article about the balcony girls we have known about in the 2000s until around 2014. She's been going through every case and she's been looking into it and discussing it. There is therefore also a follow-up to these issues through our universities. I have received information that she will update the issue through a new article. She has looked at recent cases about how things have been with, for example, balcony girls. This is also a basis that we can use in the future. We shouldn't say that it really is, but it feels, with anecdotal evidence, like when the police and society pay more attention to this, there are tendencies that you work with other ways to mask crime. It could be pills or suicide. It may be that you realize that it gets quite noticed when people fall, or jump, from balconies; it automatically becomes a review of it in a different way than when it comes to people who feel bad and take pills. I mean, we're pretty good at this, but I'm ready to listen. Above all, I am prepared to look at the fact that it is not only the police that are conducting investigations, but also our academic institutions. I will be honest and say that we do not currently have a proposal for an investigation commission, but that does not mean that I take this issue lightly or that I do not think it is important.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-347	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Mikael Damberg, who himself has been very committed to this. I remember you, Mikael Damberg, raising these issues when you were chairman of the Fadime Fund. I am also pleased that you not only want to smooth this out but want to look at it; that is actually necessary. It is good to have academic evidence to take a deeper look at it, but murder and attempted murder remain a matter for the rule of law and the police. The authorities must cooperate to do something about this, for these girls are made invisible. I personally know many cases, and they upset me a lot. Since my time as a social worker in Botkyrka and Skärholmen, I myself have witnessed that others, who know the girl or family in question, think it was a murder of honour, but society has broken in various ways. It is good that the police are paying attention to this. It is good that we do not hide in these sensitive matters so as not to be called racists and other things. I myself have had debates with the police and with many authorities on this. I think it is actually the opposite; it is discriminatory that some people – or some girls and women – do not appear in our statistics when it comes to murder or honour killings and crimes of honour. That is why I think it is necessary. I have raised this during my 12 years in Parliament, and I will continue to do so until we become a voice even for those who are not included in the statistics and whose death is not recognised as murder but as suicide. Of course we have suicides in our society, but why – explicitly – are only girls with immigrant backgrounds falling from a balcony? Another issue, which I have pushed into three interpellations just this month, concerns virginity checks and so-called virgin surgery. We are the world's most equal country, at least on paper and according to what we believe, but still this year 2020. In his reply, the Minister for the Interior said that IVO has the responsibility to turn to the public prosecutor when they discover cases of so-called virginity checks or the issuing of virginity certificates. The problem is that we have not yet seen such a case, despite the fact that there is such a problem. No one has investigated this. No one has been convicted either, and no doctor's ID has been revoked. We know that Cold facts and many journalists have investigated this and that it has occurred in health centres. When I had a debate with the Minister for Social Affairs a few weeks ago, she said that it was impossible to investigate the extent of crime because it was about criminal activity. I believe that we have many other criminal activities that are criminalised, such as child marriage and forced marriages, but they still exist. That is why it is necessary to carry out investigations.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-354	Madam President, I would like In the interpellation response, I tried to clarify that we can see that one can get rid of the ID if one breaks this and that there are also criminal law opportunities to attack it. Why, then, do we not see more results? Yes, because it is an activity that is rather shady. You don't sign this; you don't talk about it. It is difficult to obtain evidence, just as there have been problems with the proof securing when it comes to the balcony girls. The police must immediately, when this is done, have solid evidence and see who may have been in place, for it may later have a decisive role in the investigation. We must also break the culture of silence here. We need more information and information when this happens, so that we can investigate it. That is also part of this. Not least with regard to the balcony girls, I would like to stress that there is no limitation period for murder. If we obtain new information or evidence in previous cases, the perpetrators should not be able to be certain. I think that's important-- if there's any new information or evidence, the prosecutor can bring it up, and it can lead on. I believe, however, that in the future it is very much about people knowing that the police take this type of crime seriously. The police are securing evidence, and the risk of detection is greater today than before. Perhaps this is what we are already seeing – it gets a little too spectacular when you commit this kind of crime, and therefore you refrain. They try to influence the young girls differently. You may threaten, or even kill them, in other ways. If there is any suspicion on the part of the police in the event of an accident or suicide, it is important that it is always flagged up, and it should be taken seriously. I thank you for these contributions and continue to engage in this matter. I also look forward to Amineh Kakabaveh continuing to pursue the government and authorities on this issue, because I believe that this will continue to be necessary.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-360	Madam President, I would like I am, of course, pleased about this. As long as injustice and oppression exist and as long as the fundamental human rights and freedoms of girls and women are oppressed in the name of culture, religion and tradition, this struggle will continue. I think that both me and you, Mikael Damberg, will fight this. This is necessary, not least because many people are fleeing dictatorships and from oppressive cultures and societies. These people come here in the belief that they will have the same rights, but Fadime said in Parliament that immigrant girls' rights are not the same. They get to eat the same food and watch the same TV, but they don't have the same rights. I will never forget this, and I hope that none of us will forget it. When there is little knowledge or evidence, various surveys and studies are needed, for example to find out what happened in connection with all the murders that have not been investigated in the last 20 years. It is important to go back and examine them but also to have strategies for the future. That also applies to virginity standards. I am very happy that we have a sexual crime law that is so strong, but unfortunately no doctor or anyone else has been convicted because it has committed rape by investigating someone's innocence. I know it's happening; since last summer, I've been betraying several girls myself. You're forced to do this at the age of 19. It is a question of fleeing oppression to another oppression. There are opportunities today, but this is so shameful and guilty – it cannot be proved. I thank you for your answer and hope that we will investigate these problems.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-365	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you once again for this important interpellation. We will continue to work very hard to ensure that all girls and boys in this country have the same rights and the same obligations and be equal before the law. This must apply regardless of where you live in Sweden and where you come from. That you can love who you want and that you can do what you want in your life is the whole idea of Swedish democracy, to which many people have also fled. They expect these ideals to be reflected in the society in which we live. There is more to be done here, for example when it comes to breaking the culture of silence and exposing those who break the law. I believe that the police and prosecutors are on the right track when they learn from their previous mistakes and develop new methodological support and new knowledge to secure evidence in a different way than before, so that more are convicted of these terrible crimes.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-367	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me if it is my opinion that the proposal of the Defence Committee regarding shelters and population protection is satisfied with the bill Totalförsvaret 2021 – 2025. She has asked whether I and the government intend to allocate increased resources to MSB in the near future if all shelter inspections show that there is a need for rehabilitation and modernisation. She has also asked how I and the government intend to deal with the outcome. Furthermore, Alexandra Anstrell has asked how I intend to give civil defence the right conditions for achieving the stated objective of protecting the civilian population when no efforts are made on population protection in the near future. The security situation in Europe has deteriorated over time. Our neighbourhood is increasingly characterised by a greater presence of military forces and increased military activity. An armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. We are now rebuilding our total defense. In this work, it is of great importance that civil defence is given high priority and good conditions for strengthening and developing. The new defence policy direction proposed by the government will form the basis for ensuring a sustainable overall defence capability. The government proposes in the budget bill that civil defence should strengthen a s. Together with the funds provided in the 2018 Budget Bill, the amount of civil defence in 2025 amounts to SEK 4.2 billion. This is the biggest investment in modern times. SEK 320 million is invested in the protection of the civilian population and civil protection under increased preparedness. Protecting the civilian population is one of the objectives of civil defence. There should therefore be, to the necessary extent, access to shelters or other shelters that may provide effective physical protection for the civilian population against the direct consequences of acts of war on Swedish territory. Sweden today has a uniquely large stock of shelters. There are approximately 65 000 shelters with room for 7 million people. However, the standard of the shelters varies. The oldest were built in the 1940s, and since 2002 only a limited number of new shelters have been built. It is the Authority for Civil Protection and Preparedness that is responsible for checking that the established shelters have the intended protective capacity. It is responsible for the ongoing maintenance of the shelters and the associated equipment. The defence policy bill states that it is important to establish a clear direction and closer planning for the effective development of the future protection of the civilian population in the event of increased preparedness and then extreme war. The Government therefore intends to set up an investigation to review this. Civil defence reconstruction will require action both in the short and long term. The government will closely monitor developments in this area and take the necessary measures for a sustainable total defence.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-375	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Sweden currently has approximately 65 000 shelters around the country with room for about 7 million people. The problem is, a lot of people are in bad shape. Also, new shelters have not been built in Sweden since 2002, although the population has increased and despite an increased urbanisation and increased risk of armed conflict. Last spring I listened to the programme Caliber and the section The Failed Protection Rooms. If you weren't afraid of dark before, you almost became that after listening. It is the Authority for Civil Protection and Preparedness that is responsible for verifying that established shelters have the intended protective capacity. Property owners are responsible for the ongoing maintenance of the shelters and the associated equipment. One goal is that the shelters should be checked every ten years. One inspector who spoke in the program said that it was 20 years since he was in the very shelter in Gothenburg they were in at the time of the recording of the program and that the interval between the controls was not unusual. At the same time as the program was broadcast, statistics from MSB showed that there are a number of shelters with so-called persistent deficiencies. That was about almost a third of all the shelters. However, according to MSB, the evidence for the so-called persistent deficiencies in controls carried out before 2011 has been removed. In the majority of those shelters, there has also been no control after 2011. With regard to the control that was carried out earlier and that revealed the remaining shortcomings, we cannot therefore see what the deficiencies were; the evidence is gone. That work can almost be said to be wasted. Madam President, I would like In March, I asked the Government a number of questions regarding shelters and population protection. I received a reply that the Defence Committee's proposal was prepared and that it would be an important basis for the direction of the upcoming total defence bill. Now we have received the total defence bill and can see that the investment in population protection should take place only in 2024 and 2025. Furthermore, we can see that if more money is added after 2025, proposals will be implemented in accordance with Chapter 4, which sets out the government's policy. At least I can't find anything about population protection. As regards shelters, the Swedish Defence Committee has raised the need for existing shelters to be restored and for more shelters to be needed in priority areas. In its proposal, the Government states that it intends to appoint a special investigator on this issue, as the Minister also outlined in this House today. It has been a long time since the Defence Committee issued its reports stating that the ability of population protection to meet the demands of war on society is severely limited. Protecting the civilian population is a key task for civil defence. We need to be able to protect the civilian population in the event of an armed attack. It's also very important for our credibility. In order to deal with and reduce the pressure on the civilian population in the event of armed attacks, the Defence Committee considered that in peacetime plans must be drawn up and resources allocated for the protection of the population must be allocated. I have now received a reply from the Minister that it is being invested in total defence. But how long are we gonna have to wait? There's a lot of talk about investigations. How long will things have to be investigated? And how many times are they going to have to be investigated? When can the Swedish people see a little more action and not just investigations when it comes to shelters?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-384	Madam President, I would like MSB has done both controls and supervision. It will continue to do so. The supervision activities for next year are expected to be very large, because it is done in various sjok. Now the focus is on supervision to later be able to make a little greater assessment of the investment needs and how to work with control operations in the future. MSB has scaled up and has prioritised the most densely populated areas. That work is now under way. We have set aside quite a lot of money in the bill for the area. Now we have to think about exactly what to prioritise. Is it a new building of shelters, which is very expensive? Is it the setting up of old shelters? In that case, it must be done in the light of the current and future threat. We must therefore have an up-to-date description of the protection of the population and, above all, of the shelter capacity we need. There are some things missing that we used to have. Then we had a support organization. Before the municipalities took over responsibility, there were also voluntary organisations working on it. Now that we are building civil defence, we need to take a holistic approach to all of this. Otherwise, there is a risk that we will make early investments that will then prove to be not very relevant or perhaps cost-effective. I therefore believe that it is probably right to first take a holistic approach to the issue of shelters, to set aside money that we have made and to continue with supervision, and that MSB builds up an overall picture over time, in order to make the right investments towards the end of the defence decision-making period. The alternative would be to burn the money now, then look at the details and perhaps note that the wrong investments are being made. I don't think that's the way to go. I still think it's right to first do an investigation and spend the money after that.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-388	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I agree that it is important to plan, especially with other people's money. The Minister was concerned that supervision and controls are carried out in various shoals. According to the Minister, a fairly quick follow-up question will be how long the intervals of the shoals should be. Is it supposed to be 20-year intervals? Is that okay? To refer the Swedish people to shelters that are not functional is like sending someone out on the lake without a life jacket. It's not really okay. You can have a long-term plan, but there must also be quite a lot of fast pucks. So I will come back to how long or how big the sjoken should be. The total defence decision we are going to take is very important, and it is great that the entire Parliament agrees that we will invest 4.2 billion in civil defence. Some investigations that have already been carried out intend the government to do again. I am thinking of the role of business in total defence. It has been a long time since these reports came from the Defense Committee. Wouldn't it have been good if you had been on this ball a little earlier so that we could already have seen more workshop? As the decision goes on to investigate the shelters, it feels like we have lost quite a few years. Does the Minister not agree? An investigation that will be very interesting to take part in is the one that will clarify the issues of responsibility, management and coordination. I think it's really important. But I would have liked it to have been completed earlier so that we could have included it in the total defense decision to be taken before Christmas. One thing that is important to us Moderates is sectoral authorities. We believe that it is important to have a clear responsibility and that this sector should coordinate its activities both in peace and under increased preparedness. We think that a responsible authority for the management of civil defence is important. Because as the minister was on, it's wide and big. Such a sectoral function should include MSB, the county administrative boards and the county governors appointed as civilian commanders.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-396	Madam President, I would like MSB has changed the work on supervisory controls in recent years in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and other population-tight areas. The settlements are prioritised because this is mainly where shelters are located and here it is estimated that people cannot find other premises to be in if there is a war. Such work has been done. Now we are in a slightly different phase where there is a lot of focus on the supervisory side. But let us not forget the issue of responsibility. The person responsible for the shelters, both ongoing maintenance and associated equipment, is the property owner. We must not lurk this issue of responsibility. I think it is reasonable to take a concerted approach to the issue of shelters, the issue of evacuation and any support organisation as we build civil defence so that we invest the money absolutely best. I am also annoyed that we have not kept up the level of civil defence during these years and that there has been a gradual phasing out of much of the capability development in civil defence. However, when it comes to shelters, Sweden has a head start to many other countries because we actually have shelters that can be prepared or invested in so that they can still work. It would be a much greater process if we had had no shelters at all and had to start from zero than having shelters that could provide protection for the civilian population at any level now. The right thing when spending a lot of money is first to investigate what to spend the most money on and do it wisely. I think that's smart when you're going to spend a lot of money in a short time. I am also waiting for the investigation into the responsibility, management and coordination of civil defence. I believe that this is absolutely crucial in order to have a stronger civil defence which also plays within the framework of a stronger total defence.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-403	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the answers. In fact, on the way here today, I was thinking that, unlike many other countries, we have shelters. But what is problematic is if we are lulled into false security and believe that the shelters we have work. What if something happens today and they don't work and there's no air coming in as it should? That would be terrible. In my interpellation, I asked a third question: a civil defence objective is to protect the civilian population. When no efforts are made in the near future on population protection, how does the Government intend to provide the right conditions to achieve the goals set? I do not feel that I was given a proper answer, so the Minister will be happy to return to that question.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-406	Madam President, I would like The straight and honest answer is that we will not achieve all the objectives of civil defence in the first years of this period of defence. Where, then, are the bets? In the near future, we are making quite large investments in the health sector. Throughout the period, we invest in digital security, because many of the public systems depend on digital security even in peacetime. The efforts are somewhat different in time, and the issue of population protection and shelters is more specific later. However, I look forward to coming back quite soon with an investigation into the matter. Throughout the period, we are also giving more money to the voluntary defence organisations to enable them to work long-term and to train and organise more people who can help within the framework of civil defence, which benefits the civilian population. We're in a start-up period. We're not at the end result yet. It took several defence periods to destroy civil defence, and unfortunately it will not take just one defence period to rebuild it. However, we have made a historic budget effort, and I look forward to working on delivering it and doing it as smartly as possible.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-410	Madam President, I would like Ida Gabrielsson has asked me whether I intend to take any initiatives to ensure that people on sick leave receive benefits from health insurance instead of having to seek financial assistance from the municipality. The report on a safe health insurance centred on people has submitted the reports An understandable and safe health insurance with space for the individual (SOU 2020:6) and a health insurance tailored to the individual (SOU 2020:26). The investigation has made several proposals to ensure a more appropriate health insurance. The reports have been referred and prepared in the Government Office. The Government decided on 10 September 2020 to give Försäkringskassan an assignment to improve quality in matters relating to the right to sickness benefit. This concerns the quality of the handling of cases where sickness benefit is denied from day 180 of the period of illness, in the light of deficiencies identified by the said investigation. A prerequisite for confidence in health insurance is that the decision of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is understandable and that the Authority's conclusions are substantiated. On 26 March 2020, the Government decided on the Committee Directives A more appropriate regulatory framework for sickness and activity benefits and rehabilitation benefits. The purpose of the investigation is to ensure that sickness and activity benefits provide security in the event of long-term reduced work capacity, good predictability for the individual and stability in the application over time. Furthermore, the investigation aims to create a more modern regulatory framework that can help prevent ill health and provide support for rehabilitation as well as transition to other work. The investigation shall report the assignment by 30 July 2021. The government has taken several initiatives on health insurance, and work is ongoing. People should feel confident that health insurance provides financial security if they fall ill and cannot work. Support and effective rehabilitation should be provided to return to working life.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-415	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Security, for your answer! Sickness insurance has been broken for a long time. The Coronandem has put this in lightning. Health insurance is an insurance that we all paid money to, but when it comes to it, it doesn't work. Previously, there was the so-called stupefying stock. Now insurance is increasing at 180 days, year after year, to reach some kind of peak by 2020. Whatever the government, the insurance policies have continued. That it would take a pandemic for us to understand that we can all get sick! Countless are the examples of people who have suffered badly, but nothing happens. Many changes are necessary. Those who are already insured and have lost their SGI must get redress. There is a need for a crisis commission to review this. People who are ill are today thrown out of insurance and are invited to seek support for their livelihoods. People at best live on their relatives, at worst not at all. For some, suicide has been felt the only way out. Nurse Christine Udding entered care and was infected with covid-19. Now she is denied extended sickness benefit. Is that the thanks? Similarly, many other long-term ills have been refused the compensation they should be entitled to. We can't have this. All parties must now gather and let go of the prestige. It's about people who are worth better than political games. The Left Party has therefore initiated an initiative to introduce the government's detailed proposals on changes to the 180-day rule and the examination of imaginary jobs in the labour market. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Social Security himself has said that there is a proposal on the table of the government and that he is prepared to introduce it whenever there is a majority in favour of it. That is what the Minister for Social Security has said about the proposal that the Left Party is now making. Several parties have since joined, and the majority declared by the Minister as the only obstacle has now been set up by the Left Party. My question is therefore: is the Minister sticking to his word? Will the Social Democrats and the Government on Thursday, when it is decided, support the proposal of the investigation and be clear that it will apply to all the sick, without exception?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-423	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ida Gabrielsson, for the question and comments! Allow me to start by thanking Mr Gabrielsson very much for the long-term consistent commitment to social security and the part of social security where we see serious shortcomings, namely sickness benefit. We have a situation that we cannot accept, and that is that people lose their financial security when they really need that security in order to focus on rehabilitation. The regulatory framework that we have today and the application that we have of that framework mean that people are forced to end their care and rehabilitation efforts and are actually forced either to seek work or to go back to work, despite the fact that treatment or rehabilitation has not been completed. It's a health insurance policy that betrays people. The development that we see is that the share that gets rid of sickness benefit at day 180 has increased. We could see that this year it seems to be around 40% who are denied their sickness benefit at day 180. That is not something we can accept. We can see that the pandemic has helped us to see the shortcomings of our society. These are deficiencies that have existed for a long time. The shortcomings are now being clarified, not least in social security, when people who have made great efforts for our society do not get the financial security they deserve on the day they fall ill. It is shameful that nurses and nurses are not allowed to complete their rehabilitation but to lose their sickness allowance on day 180. We can't have this. As Ida Gabrielsson says, we have the proposals on our table. I have here the investigation entitled An understandable and safe health insurance with a place for rehabilitation. The report has been referred, and most of the consultation bodies have set out in the analysis and agree with the proposals on changing the rules at the trial day 180, reducing the evidence requirements and ensuring that people have the opportunity to complete their rehabilitation and care efforts. The whole point of these proposals is that people should be able to complete their rehabilitation in order to get back to work. So far, we have had locks between the right and the left in this House which have prevented us from improving health insurance. My hope is that, thanks to the insights that are emerging during the pandemic, we can get past these locks so that we can put away all political prestige and make these changes. It is no secret that the government is working on these proposals and that we want to change the regulatory framework on the basis of the proposals. Right now, officials at the Ministry of Social Affairs are working on the proposals and preparing a bill. This presupposes that there are political preconditions for us to be able to present that bill: on the one hand, there is a majority in this House, and on the other hand, that the parties involved in budgetary cooperation agree. Those calls are being made right now. My hope is that we will soon land in the conclusion that this needs to be done and hand over the proposals to Parliament, so that together we can do what is necessary for people to have financial security in the event of illness. These are reasonable, legitimate expectations of the Swedish people. Workers' organisations, employers' organisations and organisations for people with disabilities have all been in touch during the last 24 hours and have really called on the government to act. We are doing what we can to resolve this as quickly as possible.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-432	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Social Security for his answer. For us in the Left Party, this is to let go of the prestige. We have come forward with what is the compromise proposal, that is, the proposal of the investigation. The Left Party really wants to completely abolish the 180-day limit and the rehabilitation chain in its current form. We have another idea and another proposal for a system for how people should become healthy or be entitled to compensation if, despite efforts, they continue to be ill. The compromise that we are moving forward with was already fully examined in January. It seems that the department has nevertheless been rather quick to look at the proposals, but now it is starting to feel urgent. The proposal has been on the table for a long time. In the past, the Social Democrats and the Minister for Social Security have highlighted precisely the lack of a majority in favour of the proposal as the reason for not going forward with it. Today, there is the majority. I therefore wonder why Ardalan Shekarabi does not give a clearer answer to the fact that the proposal will be put forward, which will improve for many who have been subject to insurance.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-436	Madam President, I would like Ida Gabrielsson and I have the same focus, namely that the situation must be resolved as soon as possible, preferably yesterday. There are talks at the moment between the parties that have a budget cooperation, and I really hope that the talks will lead to the possibility of making proposals at Parliament's table as soon as possible. Weaknesses in health insurance affect people every day. Only in the last few weeks have we been able to hear testimony about people who have made great efforts during the pandemic, who have taken risks for us and who have worked in healthcare and elderly care and been infected by the disease covid-19. Now that they are ill and need financial security to complete their rehabilitation, they get rid of the sickness allowance. No party should accept this. No one should be content with such a situation. It does not matter whether it is people who have suffered from long-term covid or cancer or what kind of disease it is. If your work capacity is impaired, if you need help, rehabilitation and care, you must have financial security during that time so that you can complete your rehabilitation and thus have the opportunity to get back to work. Today, however, a large proportion of insured persons do not receive financial security, and we have known for a while. That's why the investigation was set up, and that's why the government started the process of legislative changes. Now we have to help each other together. I welcome the pragmatic approach here, and I very much hope that all the parties in the Swedish Parliament show the same pragmatic approach so that we can get past the party boundaries and the locks and push through the proposals. In this way, we are doing what the Swedish people expect of us. We owe this to our citizens. We owe it to all those who have made a great deal of effort during the pandemic, that is to say, to resolve the shortcomings that exist in health insurance. We will do what is necessary so that people really have the opportunity to complete their rehabilitation. I can only appeal to all political parties to take this in. Of course, we have had different ideological starting points on the issue of health insurance, but now that the shortcomings are so obvious and when we know that insurance is increasing so radically every year, it is time to put aside ideological locks, reach out one hand to each other and solve the problem. This applies in particular to the proposal that is on our table and has been referred to. They have also been welcomed by most of the consultation bodies. I promise Ida Gabrielsson that the government is doing what we can to bring about the changes proposed in this investigation.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-443	Madam President, I would like It was the Social Democratic Government that set the target of nine sick days a year. After that, the insurance policies skyrocketed at 180 days. It sounds good when Ardalan Shekarabi talks about the ambition to want to change for those who have been insured and for those who are now facing perhaps getting rid of their sickness benefit. It's urgent. We need temporary changes for all sick people regardless of diagnosis, but above all we need to change and improve permanently. Does the Minister for Social Security seriously mean that in such a situation the Social Democrats allow a party with barely 2% dictate how and if we are to come up with a common solution? As I understand it, there is a strong majority in Parliament for the changes, if the Minister for Social Security means what he says. Then the Social Democrats must show where the cabinet should stand and make sure that you are serious about these issues. Otherwise it feels more like talk and not so much workshop. I very much hope that the issue is so prioritised for the Minister for Social Security and for the Social Democrats that on Thursday, when the Left Party raises the proposal, we can already get a majority on the matter. This applies both to temporary relief for all and, above all, to the permanent changes that the insured and the sick have been waiting for for for so long.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-447	Madam President, I would like I thank Ida Gabrielsson for the interpellation, which is really needed. I would like to agree with Mrs Ida Gabrielsson's position that words are not enough. It goes without saying that neither the words nor the position of the Riksdag through a committee initiative are sufficient, but what is required is a legislative amendment. It is the Government's task to prepare a legislative amendment and present proposals on the Riksdag's table for concrete legislative changes. That is also the focus of our policy. We agree with the criticism expressed in the investigation of the current system and the current regulatory framework of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. There are obvious shortcomings in the right to financial security in the event of illness. From our point of view, it is not an option to accept such a development. I am a proud member of the party that built up social security and that took the battle in this House for the introduction of compulsory public health insurance. I see it as an obligation to act in this government together with the parties that are taking a stand in favour of better health insurance so that together we can once again restore the financial security of long-term ills. I use the word'restore' because today there is not enough financial protection for the long-term sufferers. There must be a change in this, and the government intends to act and do what we can to change the regulatory framework.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-451	Madam President, I would like In two interpellations, Lotta Olsson has raised issues of electricity capacity. She has asked me whether I have carried out an analysis of whether the electricity supply is secured in Mälardalen for the coming years in order to safeguard the needs and expansions of companies or whether I intend to take any specific measures to secure the electricity supply in Mälardalen. She has also asked me what analysis I make of the reason for the current lack of impact and how it affects the measures I will take to solve the problem. Lotta Olsson points out that there are different views in the debate on the availability of electricity in Sweden. To some extent it seems to be due to confusion of concepts. To start with energy, that is, electricity supply over time, it is a fact that Sweden has plenty of electricity. In 2019 Sweden exported a record amount of electricity with very low carbon dioxide emissions. During 2020 we have so far had net exports of electricity to our neighbours every week. In terms of power, instead, it is about the ability to supply electricity to consumers during the hour of the year when electricity consumption is highest. Sweden's power balance has become more strained in recent years, but Sweden has a large capacity in electricity connections to neighbouring countries, and Swedish power grids estimate that the risk of power shortage is low even in the longer term. No electric consumers have had to be disconnected due to power shortages in Sweden. Then there are challenges with local capacity in some places Sweden, including in Skåne last year. The government and the network companies in Malmö and Stockholm therefore took a joint initiative last autumn to ensure the capacity in Malmö and Stockholm in both the short and long term. At the same time, the Government instructed the Swedish Energy Market Authority to investigate and propose measures to ensure capacity in other parts of Sweden. The Swedish Energy Markets Inspectorate presented the assignment on 1 October 2020. The Government will analyse the proposals in order to ensure that responsible actors take the necessary measures to ensure that there is capacity for existing customers and that additional customers receive electricity within a reasonable time in all parts of Sweden, including Mälardalen. In Sweden, new users are required to connect to the network. However, network operators have the right to refuse connection if there is no capacity in the network. It is thus a dialogue between connecting parties and network companies, and if they cannot agree, the matter will ultimately be examined by the Energy Market Inspectorate. At the same time, no actor can expect that there will always and everywhere be room for connecting new large electricity users to the grid. As the electricity grids are ultimately funded by users, such an electricity grid would be unreasonably expensive for consumers and industry. Finally, I would like to highlight the fact that Swedish power networks are making historically large investments in new electricity grid capacity. The next three-year period is planned for investments of SEK 17 billion, compared with SEK 7 billion in the last three years.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-458	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a long history as an industrial nation, which has been a prerequisite for our economy, our jobs and our welfare. Our economy is half based on exports, an export that assumes that our industry is very competitive. Our industry is also largely energy-intensive. Swedish steel industry, automotive industry and forest industry are all dependent on a large and safe energy effect. In addition, the new industrialization, with battery factories and heavy computer halls, had not even been located in Sweden if we had not had good, relatively cheap and reliable electrical energy here. Our previously so secure access to electrical energy has simply been a success factor for us. However, this success factor is no longer self-evident, Madam President, because not only does it require a lot of energy. It must also be in the right quantity and with the right effect when we need it, because modern industry loses huge efficiency if it is forced to interrupt due to power shortages – if it is even possible to shut down production. A large part of our heavy industry cannot even be turned off. Then the whole process will be destroyed, as in the steel industry. Madam President, I would like Much of the processes in our industries are also toughly slimmed in terms of efficiency to meet quality requirements, Swedish wages and global competition. That is what the conditions for our industry look like. Without being extremely competitive, one cannot remain on the world market. Industry does what it can to be competitive, but politics must do its part. It is not individual companies that are responsible for regulating the electricity market; it is politics. If we are not able to deliver a policy that makes it possible to produce electrical energy at reasonable prices, we risk the entire Swedish economy. Madam President, I would like To accomplish this task, the government must first acknowledge that the challenge exists. There has been a great denial of the whole problem ever since we in the opposition lifted the acute problems in Skåne a year and a half ago. At the time, the Minister considered this to be an exaggeration and no problem at all. Sweden exported electricity, which was seen as a sign that power shortages could not occur. So at the end of September this year an emergency plan is presented to secure the energy effect in Skåne. It is therefore reasonable for us in this debate to be made clear by the minister responsible how he views the electricity effect in the Mälar Valley. Is it the same as in Skåne a year and a half ago, as a zero problem, or does Minister Ygeman intend to take action before he is forced into crisis management?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-465	Madam President, I would like First of all, I'm just going to broaden Lotta Olsson's world view. Sweden is attracting investment from around the world because we have large surpluses of electricity and Europe's lowest electricity prices. We have the largest surpluses of electricity ever, and that is of course gratifying. We'll keep on having that. We continue to produce large surpluses. We export two thirds of all Denmark's electricity consumption. There has been no denial that we have power problems in some parts of the country. Major investments have been made to tackle this and major investments will be made in the future to tackle it. Unfortunately, one of the largest investments has been delayed. We hope it will be inaugurated on 19 December. But I have a question back to Lotta Olsson. She mentions the initiative that the government took together with the energy industry to guarantee the effect in Skåne and guarantee the effect in Stockholm. It is good that Lotta Olsson highlights it. But my question to Lotta Olsson is why the Moderates voted against this.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-468	Madam President, I would like To achieve the climate targets that Sweden has signed up for 2030, major efforts are needed. The Government presented a climate policy action plan last December. It stresses the importance of emission management in order to achieve the ambitious objectives. It is necessary to be able to switch from fossil fuels to fossil-free, particularly in the transport sector and industry. We have already come a long way in terms of housing, for example. But these objectives cannot be achieved if we cannot obtain enough fossil-free energy, especially electric energy. From a moderate point of view, we have been clear: we cannot make the transition to fossil-free society quickly enough without nuclear power. The Swedish electricity mix should contain a large part of nuclear power together with the important hydropower to cope with the basic supply of electrical energy – as well in Mälardalen, because it is the southern half of Sweden that will feel the power shortage most. The problems are already clear in Skåne, where fossil fuel was forced to be used to produce electrical energy. That's not how we meet climate targets. Madam President, I would like Mälardalen has many of our important industries. Much of our export goods come from the industries here. Here, too, a large part of the new vehicles that we need for the conversion will be produced. Fossil-free Sweden shows the potential to reduce emissions from industry by 60 – 80 percent to 2045 compared to 2016. Much of that potential is found in Mälardalen. Industry and transport together account for two thirds of CO2 emissions, so there are major climate gains to be made here. But this presupposes the existence of sufficient electrical power. Madam President, I would like Not to ensure that we have a policy for enough electrical energy in Mälardalen means that we put our own hookbones to ourselves. We will not be able to meet climate goals, jobs or welfare. That is what the Minister is now responsible for ensuring. Madam President, I would like Energy policy is closely intertwined with our competitiveness and prosperity. It is even the case that Anders Ygeman's ability to pursue successful energy policy will be more crucial for today's and tomorrow's pension levels than Minister Ardalan Shekarabi is. Our energy policy is crucial for the country's economy and growth, for how we meet the climate goals and for how we finance our school, our health care and our care. And our energy policy is crucial for the size of your pension and my pension and for the pensions of today's pensioners and today's young people.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-475	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for the reading of the fine, written line! I would just like to remind you that, during the time of this government, we have tripled our investments in electricity networks. We have the biggest electricity surpluses ever. We have nuclear power, and everyone is free to invest in the nuclear industry in Sweden. But it gets a little strange when Lotta Olsson talks about fossil fuel being used in Skåne. This was, after all, phased out through the joint initiative. We made that the fossil fuel that was fired in the combined heat and power plants in Skåne was replaced with biofuels. Therefore, the question remains that Lotta Olsson was unable to answer in her four minutes: Why did the Moderates vote against the initiative that secures the power supply in Skåne and Stockholm and means that fossil fuels are replaced with biofuels?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-478	Madam President, I would like I'm not a government representative, so my main task is to ask the questions here-- not the other way around. We need to strengthen access to electricity overall. We are turning our entire heavy industry, our entire automotive industry and our entire fleet into electricity. Then everyone involved in these processes and we as consumers must be sure that there is actually electricity when we need it. If I can't charge my car is one thing, but if one of our great ironworks can't get energy, it can have fatal consequences. We need to change the target for our electricity generation from renewable to fossil-free if we are to meet the challenge. We have to choose whether to stand up for completely renewable or for fast climate targets. We need to enable the development of new nuclear power and to develop a roadmap for next generation nuclear power, as well as research and testing in this context. We also need to look at extending the operation of Ringhals 1, because Norrland will need its hydropower itself. You turn your heavy iron and steel industry into electric now. So no matter how much pipeline Minister Ygeman will pull from Norrland, the electricity is needed for battery factories and to remove the fossil fuel in our steel mills. I'm sorry, but this calculation doesn't hold up for me.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-483	Madam President, I would like It is true that Lotta Olsson is not a government representative. Lotta Olsson is a Member of Parliament. She has written two interpellations to discuss the impact situation in Sweden with the responsible minister– that's me. However, a Member of Parliament must also be able to answer how she has voted in the Riksdag. After all, it is the Swedish Parliament that is the legislative assembly in Sweden. When Lotta Olsson had the chance to create more power in Skåne, she voted no. When she had the chance to create more power in Stockholm, she voted against. When she had the chance to replace fossil fuels with biofuels, she voted against. But she cannot defend that decision before this House. Sweden has the largest electricity surpluses ever. We have Europe's lowest electricity prices. We attract investments from other countries because of our good conditions for low-cost electricity. In addition, we export electricity so that other countries can meet their climate challenge. We export two thirds of all Denmark's energy consumption. V i will use electricity generation in Sweden to switch Swedish industry and transport sector, Lotta Olsson, and at the same time we will help to pull a lance for Europe's climate challenge. I look forward to this and hope that I can get the Moderates' support for it.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-487	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat has asked me whether, with experience from the past year, I am prepared to consider legislation on the right to childcare during inconvenient working hours. In the autumn of 2019 more than 4,800 children were enrolled in care during a time when preschool or recreation centre is not offered. Most children who are enrolled evenings, nights and weekends are in municipal-run businesses. Nearly seven out of ten municipalities have children enrolled in care on so-called uncomfortable working hours. It is very clear in the School Act that the municipality should strive to provide care for children during the time when preschool or recreation centres are not offered to the extent necessary, including with regard to the parents' employment. Nevertheless, there may still be parents who need such care but do not. However, according to the preliminary work, the ambition must be to provide care even during so-called uncomfortable working hours for families who need it to take, even if it is not a right in individual cases. The municipality should therefore make an individual assessment based on the local conditions for each application. The assessment should also include the real possibility for parents to arrange care for their children themselves. I am convinced that the introduction of the new school law in 2011 has been important to stimulate municipalities to offer care at uncomfortable times to an increasing extent. The same applies to the Government's initiative since 2013 with a searchable state grant for such care. The state grant can be applied for by municipalities to be used for both existing and new activities. The starting point for the government is that in a modern society it will be possible to combine parenthood and secular work. Many occupational groups have working hours in whole or in part until evenings, nights or weekends. Parents should be able to feel safe with care for their children, even if they work other times than daytime Monday to Friday. If women and men are to be given the same opportunities for economic independence, development opportunities at work and shared responsibility for home and children, society needs to provide support to those who work in jobs that carry out odd hours of service. Especially for single parents, care for children during so-called inconvenient working hours is important. However, it is my view that the regulation that exists today is also sufficient in terms of the past year. The wording of Chapter 25. Section 5 of the School Act is challenging and not something that the municipalities can ignore. Having said that, Madam President, I fully agree with Daniel Riazat that the issue is important and still needs to be followed during the pandemic and beyond.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-494	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Never has it been as clear as 2020 how dependent we are on the socially-supporting professions – those who care for our sick in health care, provide care to the elderly, teach children, drive buses, clean or work in the food industry and trade so that we can buy the food we need. In addition to being unable to work from home in 2020, almost all of these groups are in common with the fact that they are often working precisely on uncomfortable working hours. According to the Education Act, just as the Government mentioned, municipalities should strive to offer childcare on uncomfortable working hours. But what this means is clearly interpreted differently by the municipalities, according to the Swedish School Inspectorate's previous review of the activities. The Left Party has for a long time been pushing for childcare on uncomfortable working hours to be a right. It should not matter which municipality you live in. All parents should be able to have a job and take a job and know that if needed, there is someone who takes care of their children. This is how, in pandemic times, access to childcare becomes even more important when our society needs these functions to function. It is important that childcare, regardless of the day it takes place, is just care and not babysitting. Activities must be conducted on an educational basis. I think we are in complete agreement there. It is therefore crucial that the staff working in childcare are properly trained and that those working outside normal working hours are also given the opportunity for further training. Municipalities must also be better at reviewing the quality of their activities, which we have been demanding for a long time. Madam President, I would like When municipalities offer childcare on uncomfortable working hours, it is usually on their own terms, without much consideration for the parents. In many of the municipalities that actually provide childcare on inconvenient working hours, parents are expected to actively contact and request this service without any information from the municipality. If information is available on the municipality's website, it is extremely rare in languages other than Swedish. In order to be entitled to care, parents are also expected to know their exact schedules for a long time to come, something that is not always possible when they work in, for example, activities that will relate to a pandemic. With current unclear legislation, it is difficult to impose national requirements on the functioning of pre-school activities at times other than office hours. As long as childcare on inconvenient working hours is not a general right, it will be that way. It is therefore high time to amend the law and legislate on the right to childcare during inconvenient working hours. The Government's reply shows that the Government does not intend to make any changes to the legislation on the matter. Given the reality of this year and given the number of municipalities that are now going to cut back on activities such as preschools, including childcare on inconvenient working hours, why does the government not want to change the legislation so that all children can get the care they are entitled to?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-501	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that so-called night ice, care in uncomfortable times, is incredibly important. It is important for parents who have jobs that have to be performed on uncomfortable working hours. It is important for our society, which must be kept going and where many professions must be practiced in order for people to feel secure and for society to function. But perhaps the most important thing is for the children, who should not have to be alone when Mom or Dad goes to work. In these pandemic times, they should not be dependent on Grandma and Grandpa or Grandma and Grandpa moving in and fitting them, for that should not be done by grandparents in these terrible times. The school team we have clearly states that this is a municipal responsibility. When you listen to Daniel Riazat you almost get the impression that a municipal responsibility would be equal to no responsibility at all. In reality, it is challenging and clear wording in the school law, and it is writing that should be followed. We have here in the Swedish Parliament legislated on what obligations there are, and I assume that the municipalities comply with this. In addition, it is actually important how to vote in municipal elections and which politicians run our municipalities. In these times, when the government has contributed huge billions to the local government sector to deal with the pandemic, it is self-evident to me that that money is also there for inconvenient care at night. Madam President, I would like The fact that a matter is a municipal responsibility does not mean that it is nobody's responsibility. This means that it is precisely a municipal responsibility. I would also like to point out that, although this is a municipal responsibility, the government has chosen to provide a state contribution for what we call night ice, and I would like to emphasise that this state contribution has more than doubled since the government's Löfven took office in 2014. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I am aware that there are municipalities here and where which do not offer night ice, perhaps even one or other municipality where left-wing parties have a clear decision-making mandate. I hope that the municipalities will take on the great responsibility that they have under the school law and that they really are up to it. I can assure you that if the municipalities do not do what they are supposed to do here, I will not hesitate to act.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-507	Madam President, I would like As so many times before, I know that I and the Government agree with each other on the basic issue itself, in this case that there should be childcare on uncomfortable working hours. But when it comes to what reality looks like and what our role at national level is, we differ. When the Swedish School Inspectorate comes up with criticism of how childcare on inconvenient working hours is regulated and how the regulations on this are interpreted differently in the municipalities, it is something that we as rich politicians and Anna Ekström as ministers should take very seriously. Let me give you an example. In Danderyd the municipality closed night ice, i.e. childcare on uncomfortable working hours. As a result, the seven families who took advantage of it could no longer do so. One of them was an emergency doctor, and another was a nurse, that is, the professions that we have had an extreme need for this year – in fact, we always have an extreme need for them, but especially during the pandemic, the need is great when there is such pressure that the healthcare system should be functioning even at night. What do we say to these families and to those who work in these professions and need to leave their children for childcare activities at night? Do we refer to the municipality's responsibility – the law is clear, the municipalities have a responsibility? It does not help these families because it is clearly interpreted differently from municipality to municipality. In this respect, I believe that we in the State must act. If something is unclear to the municipalities, it must be made clear. If local authorities think that the legislation is not so clear that they need to comply with it, we need to tighten it up. That is how we think in all other areas, and I do not quite understand why we cannot think that way in this area. There is another issue that is important in this context and which I mentioned earlier, namely that nine out of ten municipalities are making cuts in their school and children's and young people's administrations. This affects, among other things, childcare on inconvenient working hours in a number of municipalities. I am fully aware that the government has increased its efforts and the state subsidy available for childcare on inconvenient working hours – we in the Left Party were in favour of this increase ourselves – but what I wonder is why the government does not look at this issue with a little more seriousness, given that we are in the midst of a pandemic, and that nine out of ten municipalities are making cuts in their school and preschool budgets.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-513	Madam President, I would like This issue should be taken very seriously. It is not for me to fail to take responsibility to state that this is a municipal issue. It is an issue where there is municipal responsibility. Of course, those doctors and nurses in Danderyd who miss out on this child care should ask themselves the question: Why is it that the government's doubled state contribution is not used for this important form of care? As a municipal citizen, we should also look carefully at which issues are driven by which parties. Now this is not a matter for the parliamentary interpellation debate, but a common good advice can be to vote for the Social Democrats also in the municipal elections. Madam President, I would like I'm looking for the words. It is so easy to stand in the Parliament's speaker's chair and make the same difference between a matter being a state responsibility and taking the matter seriously. For me, it is taking a matter very seriously when it is stated that there is a clear municipal responsibility, there is a law that is demanding and there is a state grant, proposed by the government and decided by the Riksdag, that has doubled. To suggest that this is not taking the matter seriously, I think it falls on its own absurdity. Having said that, Madam President, if the municipalities are not able to assume their responsibilities in this matter, I am by no means alien to taking initiatives, but we are not, in all honesty, there. Not everything can be solved with more legislation.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-517	Madam President, I would like I know, as I said earlier, that the Government really cares about these issues. But I still mean that the answer was not really what I expected. The reason I am saying that the government is not taking this seriously enough is that we should not wait until the situation has become so absurd that it must tighten up the legislation. I mean the other way around. When we see warning signals that there are things that do not work with the current legislation, we must take it very seriously. The school inspectorate has seen this for itself. It is therefore the Authority's responsibility to supervise these areas. I also believe that this will be particularly important when we are in a pandemic situation and when we are in a situation where nine out of ten municipalities, as I have said, are cutting back. It is true that this is a municipal matter. So is the rest of the school system. The school is under the responsibility of a local authority. Health care is under the responsibility of the regions. This does not mean that we cannot ensure, through legislation, that we set the framework for these activities, so that they will be well-functioning in the municipalities, which will have this responsibility. If we change legislation and tighten legislation in certain areas, it may not be the case that Danderyd closes it and another municipality does it in a completely different way. That is my criticism and the reason why this legislation should be amended. I have listened to the Government and will use the statement that you will change the law if you see that there are major problems. We shall see in the future if that situation arises.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-523	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to thank Daniel Riazat for raising this question by Daniel Riazat. It is important; there is absolutely no doubt about it. I grew up in a family day care home, where my mother had children who came to uncomfortable times. I know how it smells in a bed where there is a small newly awakened child, and I am glad that there are warm, soft beds for children who also need care at night. But I belong to a party that is pushing this issue very hard in the municipal budgets and in the municipal electoral movements, and I am proud to belong to a party that is pushing this issue very hard. In fact, I do not think that the answer to every question is an increase in government responsibility. That is not to say, Madam President, that sometimes it cannot be. Should it be the case that this issue needs to be resolved by state intervention and that even more is needed from the state, I will not hesitate. But I want the municipal representatives to take on the responsibility that we in the Swedish Parliament have provided that they will do through the demanding wordings contained in our school law. As I said, I will follow this issue very closely. I will do it for one reason only. Society needs people working at night. Many people need to work at night, and the children need care when Mom and Dad are away working at night. For the sake of those children, we will ensure that we have a municipal night care, child care on uncomfortable working hours, a so-called night ice. I hope that this issue will be taken very seriously by our municipal representatives.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-527	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Berglund has asked a number of questions about reduced maximum speed on road E14. Good accessibility throughout Sweden is necessary for it to be possible to live, live and work in all parts of the country and for Sweden to stay together. The government is now undertaking major investments in road infrastructure to strengthen accessibility and increase road safety, including to increase safety for vulnerable road users and to strengthen bearing capacity, but also to increase the safety of stealers. The government's work on road safety is based on the zero vision, where responsibility for road safety is shared between those who design and those who use the transport system. One of Trafikverket's many measures to reduce the number of dead and severely injured in traffic is to adapt speed limits based on the design of the road. During the last term of office, the Government decided on a new national traffic cross-border plan for transport infrastructure for the period 2018 – 2029, and it includes investments of over SEK 700 billion. Following the Government's proposal in the 2018 Budget Bill, SEK 100 million per year was added during the period 2018 – 2020 to road maintenance, including with the aim of promoting regional growth and good living conditions in Sweden's rural areas. As a result of the government's additional amending budgets for 2020, SEK 300 million was added for road maintenance in rural areas in 2020. In addition, the Government has proposed in the budget proposal for 2021 further increases in the allocation for road maintenance by SEK 500 million per year in 2021 – 2023, where the focus is on the fine-meshed road network in rural areas. I would also like to point out that measures that reduce travel time in rural areas should be given priority as the Finnish Transport Agency is now allocating up to SEK 1 billion to co-finance road safety measures on the regional road network. The Finnish Transport Agency is currently carrying out a review of speed limits on several roads around the country but has not yet taken a decision on E14. I cannot anticipate the authority's decision on this matter.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-534	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Minister Eneroth for the answers to the questions. However, it was not my questions he answered. I did not ask for an increase in what the government is investing in different ways from year to year. If we're going to be honest and talk about money, let's just say that we Moderates spend more money on road maintenance than the government does. In fact, I believe that we have done so in all our shadow budget options. No, Madam President, what I asked was: The three questions are still unanswered, but I hope, of course, that the Council of State will take the opportunity in its next three speeches to respond to them. Madam President, I would like Why, then, is it so important that the speed reduction of e.g. E14 does not occur? There are several roads that are under threat or that have already lost speed. However, I intend to dwell precisely on the E14, which is an important artery in my constituency. It's a lifeblood for people and business. In large parts of Sweden, not least in northern Sweden, very many people depend on the car to get to work, pick up and leave at school and preschool, buy food, visit the health centre or visit family and friends. Not infrequently, it's quite a distance. The major roads are central, e.g. E14. In large parts of Sweden it is not bike distance. Public transport is not as developed as in Stockholm. The car is what's available. Madam President, I would like It is not just people who depend on the car and roads like E14. So is the business community. Västernorrland is a forest industry county that contributes thousands of jobs and tax revenues of many billions a year – it's money that makes it possible with welfare. The E14 is an important transport link for the industry along the coast of Norrland, but it is also an important road for tourism in Jämtland, which has also been exercised many times here in the Swedish parliament. In short, a functioning, fast and safe E14 is important not only for the regions concerned but for the whole of Sweden, because without roads Sweden stops. Madam President, I would like Just recently, a meeting took place in Ånge Municipality in southwestern Västernorrland. The meeting was attended by the Social Democratic Municipal Council and the Moderate Opposition Council. They had a deal. To Sundsvalls Tidning they said that the dialogue with Trafikverket does not produce any results and that they must now move forward and influence the rich politicians. The Finnish Transport Administration had announced that by the end of 2021 they intend to reduce their speed from 100 and 90 kilometres per hour to 80 kilometres per hour. I'm such a rich politician, just like the government. So that is our responsibility now. It is our responsibility to ensure that people and businesses can continue to live outside the big cities as well. I will do what I can to stop such proposals. Now I ask again: what does Minister Tomas intend to do?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-543	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jörgen Berglund! It is interesting with the Moderates, who now, in opposition, say they want to invest more money on the roads. You never did that in a government position. The fact is that the problem we have today, with a lack of quality on the roads, not least in rural areas, is linked to your priority tax cuts. Job tax deductions – one, two, three and four – and investments in urban infrastructure were more important than investing in roads. When we came to the government, we chose to add SEK 100 billion more to the national infrastructure plan. For roads alone, road maintenance amounts to 164 billion, which means that I have not included bearing capacity and frost safety and other road safety measures. That I mentioned this in the interpellation response, I think most people understand, because if we have good road quality, we do not need to adjust the speeds. In 2014, the Alliance government announced that if the road standard does not improve, the Finnish Transport Administration will work with speed reductions on the roads. I think it's a good thing we're shortening travel times. I think it is good that we have good and appropriate speeds to make it attractive to live in rural areas. That is why we have chosen to make great efforts, not least on rural roads. It is welcome that the Moderates now consider this important in opposition, but in government it was more important than investing in infrastructure. Basically, therefore, it is important how much resources we put in, but not just that. We chose in the national plan for 2018, which I could present, to say on the part of the state that we are prepared to co-finance county roads, for which municipalities and regions are responsible, precisely in order to bring about, for example, the central railing set. Instead of lowering speed, a central railing is set up and can even be raised from 90 to 100. In this way, many parts of the country, perhaps not so much where Jörgen Berglund comes from, have re-prioritised county funds in order to upgrade and at the same time increase road safety. It is ultimately road safety that we are talking about. I will not accuse Jörgen Berglund of speed populism, but I can be concerned sometimes when I see how some seem to forget the fact that high speed kills. A drop from 90 to 80 kilometers per hour means that the travel time is 50 seconds longer per mile. If you have a distance of 30 miles, it means two and a half minutes longer travel time, but the likelihood of dying in an accident is dramatically reduced. Nevertheless, we have to bear in mind that we want fewer people to be injured and killed in traffic. In fact, last year we had the lowest number of injured and killed in traffic ever. I think it is important that we continue to upgrade Sweden's roads so that we do not have to work with speed reductions. We have provided more funds so that such efforts can also be made on the county roads. I think that a priority should of course be long commuting distances, but I also think that politicians who claim to want to protect life, health and road safety should also dare to talk about the fact that in a short distance of maybe 30 miles, two and a half minutes longer travel time can save lives. We must dare to stand for this, including in the Swedish Parliament.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-550	Madam President, I would like I note to my disappointment that the Government is happy to look back, not forward, and that he talks about history. I'm talking about where we stand right now. The government to which Tomas Eneroth belongs is in its seventh year. I'm happy to talk about the future. I think it's important. I don't really like the fact that when you talk about speed reductions, you just pull up a little bit. It affects people's everyday lives a lot. It is only a few minutes, but these minutes are ticking for every mile further away a person comes from his commuting variety. If you want to talk about minutes, you can also discuss high-speed trains, where minutes are saved on short distances, to huge sums of money. Having said that, Madam President, what I am asking from the Government is some kind of opinion. What does he think of these things? Does he think that's good? Does he think it's bad? From the answer, I could see that the Government probably could not go into it because it is the Swedish Transport Administration that is responsible. But one can imagine, for example, that the Government, through a government decision, makes clear to the Finnish Transport Agency the overall transport policy objective that we have. We have two parts: it is the function objective, which will help to give everyone a basic accessibility, with good quality and usability, and contribute to development power throughout the country, and so it is the consideration objective, which is about how to reduce the number of injured and killed in traffic, also linked to environmental objectives. It says that these objectives should be equal. But later in the lyrics, we can read something that upsets the balance. It states that in order for the overall transport policy objective to be achieved, the functional objective needs to be developed mainly within the context of the objective of consideration. So much for the goals to be equal – so they are not. The developmental power thing in the whole country is subordinate. This has been written by the government itself, and I cannot see that it has anything to do with the Finnish Transport Administration. I believe that it is in the power of the Government to do something about this. I really hope he does, because I think that we basically agree that the whole of Sweden should be able to live. The government referred to the number of road deaths. I read a report from the Traffic Analysis Agency in April. It states quite clearly that in terms of transport policy objectives and their development, mortality is reduced and the target for the number of road deaths is estimated to be achieved on time. That's excellent. Then there is even less reason to hurry up with these things. It must be better to invest in safe roads with, for example, mine separation. Centre separation of E14 would be significantly cheaper. Perhaps you earn minutes for people, but it costs a lot more with high - speed trains. I hope that the Government will be able to demonstrate that these changes can actually be made and maintain that the objective of function and the objective of consideration should be equal. If he hasn't answered my third question. He is therefore of the opinion that a reduction in speed makes it difficult to live and work in rural areas but is not prepared to do anything about it. The government will be happy to prove me wrong.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-559	Madam President, I would like When I hear Jörgen Berglund, I understand that he wants to flee to the future instead of taking responsibility for what the Moderates had previously decided: not to spend money on the road, to hand over a severely worn-down railway and road system with obvious shortcomings, because the Moderates in government chose to prioritise tax cuts. This is why we are now making substantial investments in both the rail system and the roads – 164 billion. This includes efforts not least on road maintenance and road safety to ensure that one does not need to reduce speed, but can actually even increase it on routes that get centre railings. I think it would have been interesting to hear Jörgen Berglund talk about speed. Is it at any time or at any quality on a road that Jörgen Berglund thinks it is justified to adjust the speed? Nevertheless, the risk of dying is reduced by 40 percent in the case of a 50 - mile - an - hour collision compared to a 90 - mile - an - hour collision. It's not just what I think-- that's what I want to say anyway-- it's research. I think we should believe it. I think we should remember this when we are ragging over speed reductions over shorter distances. And I think it is reasonable for us to prioritise and strengthen the roads in order not to reduce speed, not least on longer commuting routes or where it is important for the tourism industry. But I also think that, as politicians, we must have the courage to say that road safety is important. I noted that Jörgen Berglund referred to Traffic Analysis. But mortality does not decrease automatically in traffic. It is being reduced thanks to the investments we make, thanks to the automotive industry working with safe cars and to the renewal of the car fleet and the introduction of rules. One of my first efforts was to make sure that it was forbidden to speak on a mobile phone while driving. It was allowed before. It is quite reasonable to focus attention on driving the car and looking ahead. In this way we can reduce the mortality of traffic. But we can also increase safety through central railings. We are making a historic effort there. I welcome the fact that the Moderates are now prepared to devote resources to this, because it is necessary. But I also think it is important to have a discussion. I think Jörgen Berglund said that there is no danger of slowing down speed a little bit. However, it is a certain danger if we do not take into account the risk of not reducing speed in the right context. Speed kills. All traffic scientists know that. Let us make sure that we put sufficient resources on our roads to ensure that we have short commuting distances. Let us make sure that the rail system is extended. I note that Jörgen Berglund is ralling over new high-speed main rail lines. But it will then be built main tracks that go through Linköping, Norrköping, Jönköping, Borås and Hässleholm. This increases commuting opportunities so that trucks but also people commuting to work do not have to go on roads where it can be crowded. Instead, you can travel safely and climate-smartly with the trains. Similarly, I hope that the Botnia Line, Ostkustbanan, Norrbotniabanan and other initiatives will actually allow us to reduce the pressure on road traffic wherever possible. That is how we build a sustainable transport system, and that is how we have the courage to make investments to cope with climate change. It is national transport policy. In this respect, E14 continues to invest in improving road safety. But I also think it is important that priority should be given to longer commuting distances. In the discussion that we will have in the future on national plans, I hope that Jörgen Berglund and the Moderates want more money for infrastructure. It's necessary. I think that's what every Minister of Infrastructure thinks.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-570	Madam President, I would like I have to say that it is going to be very wrong when the Government says that the Moderates did not spend money on roads but instead prioritised tax cuts. This is simply not true. That's where the government comes under its own control. It is, of course, the government that he forms part of that, among other things, has abolished the military tax for those who earn the most. It has also reduced several other taxes. But obviously you can still get to road infrastructure. Actually, that's how it works. As for the fact that speed reductions are not so important to saving lives, I was very unclear. Of course they save lives. But the objection that can also be raised when this is always used is: Why does not one lower to 70, 50, or 40? I do not think this will hold. It is better to make the investments that I am asking for. Madam President, I would like I have absolutely no reason to seek a conflict with the Government on the question of reduced speed just for the sake of the matter. But I'm not the one looking back. I want to look forward. I want to solve problems and deal with challenges. That is also why I once engaged in politics. I think that the problems and undesirable effects of political decisions should be corrected and that one should not let it go prestige in it, as I feel it does in these matters. Sometimes you do wrong, and sometimes it gets wrong. Both Social Democrats and Moderates make mistakes. Wrong ones knowingly or not can be corrected. Those who made these decisions did not have the starting point, I understand, to deteriorate for people and businesses outside the big cities. They took their starting point in saving lives and reducing emissions. It's important. But it is the balance between these things and the possibility of living and operating where the car is necessary that must not be too large. Then the legitimacy, as it were, falls. I believe that this has been the case. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to send the Minister something to think about. And I'm not the one who figured it out. It is Abraham Lincoln who has said this: You should never be ashamed to admit that you have done wrong, because that means saying that you are wiser today than you were yesterday.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-576	Madam President, I would like I thank Jörgen Berglund for this. We can certainly continue to discuss this. And I appreciate if Jörgen Berglund also wants to make sure that we invest more in the quality of our roads and realize that speed kills. Then there is a difference – more factual information – between lowering from 90 to 80, from 70 to 50 or from 50 to 40. It is important in many contexts to reduce speed. But when it comes to lowering from 90 to 80, there is a huge difference in collision violence, how the construction of the cars is and what protection it provides for individuals. As far as E14 is concerned, however, I would like to repeat – I think it is important for those who follow the debate to hear this – that the Finnish Transport Administration is now carrying out a review. There have been no decisions on speed reductions on the E14, as I understand. Should this be done, such a decision may be appealed. If such decisions are appealed, they end up with me. It happens. In fact, we are getting a lot of appeals about speed reductions. In many cases, I have also referred the cases back and said that I do not share the opinion of the Swedish Transport Administration, but that I want to see further how the Swedish Transport Administration and municipalities in particular have reasoned together. This requires a well-functioning dialogue, in which the Finnish Transport Administration can co-finance and co-finance operations. And municipalities and regions can say that you change your county plan to put up a central railing on an important stretch. That's what you do in many parts of the country. I hope that this will also be done in Jörgen Berglund's constituency in order to ensure that road safety is increased in this way. That's how we're supposed to work with road safety. We will work together, and we will also make sure that we find the right priorities. It is important for national plans, which we will soon be working on and making decisions on. But it is also important in politics in general. My starting point is to try to listen to the best arguments put forward by the opponents. There's usually something there. In Jörgen Berglund's case, it is clear that we will work together to ensure the quality of our roads. Let's help each other out there.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-581	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me whether I intend to take the initiative to set up at least one freight pendulum for rail transport in the near future. I note that the initiatives that Jens Holm is calling for are already taken, not least as part of the implementation of the national freight transport strategy. Let me take a few examples. For 2020, SEK 200 million has been added to environmental compensation aimed at transferring freight transport from road to rail. In the budget proposal for 2021, the Government has proposed an increase of SEK 400 million annually for continued environmental compensation during the period 2021 – 2025. The aim is to make the support more efficient in order to further increase environmental management and accuracy. The Finnish Transport Agency has the Government's mission to step up its efforts to promote what is known as intermodal rail transport. It is part of the task of having a dialogue with different actors on the possibility of transferring freight from road to rail in different ways. The work with the dialogues is currently ongoing in a project called the Transport Administration's Freight Train. On behalf of the Government, Trafikverket has also investigated the obstacles to increased intermodal rail transport and described what can be done. The measures concern, inter alia, regulatory frameworks for path allocation and innovation procurement in the context of terminal management, transfer technology and efficient train systems. The Government's efforts aim to facilitate the transfer of goods from road to rail. I note that many initiatives are now being taken. For example, Coop expanded its traffic with freight commutes in the spring of 2020 and now runs three train pairs every day between Bro and Malmö. Several ports also work actively with train commuters from the port. An example of such a new freight commuter is the train that, since mid-September 2020, runs between Oslo and the Port of Gothenburg once a week, where the port's ambition is to increase the number of departures to three per week within the foreseeable time frame and then to five departures per week. As the Minister responsible, I will continue to work to make it easier for more freight to be carried out by rail.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-588	Madam President, I would like Last week, the Minister for Infrastructure and I were here debating sustainable freight transport in relation to my interpellation that more needs to be done in order for us to transport more goods by rail and by sea and less by road. I noted at the time that we were in complete agreement on this, but that the government's policy has so far not been very successful in this area. In 2019, freight transport decreased both by sea and by rail. Now we have a pandemic, and then transport overall has decreased. But for a very long time we have seen that road freight transport continues to increase. This applies not least to foreign trucks. These hauliers give their employees very poor working conditions and low wages. You just dump the market. There are therefore many good reasons – apart from the environmental reasons of course – to ensure that we get more order and manage and move more transport from road to rail. Madam President, I would like One concrete way of doing this would be to set up rail freight commutes. These would be permanent routes that go from one place to another for the transport of goods. I know that a great deal of work is being done on this. The minister mentioned some examples. But when I listen to the minister, it sounds like he's pretty happy with the way things look today. It's not me. The Cooppendel running is a closed pendulum. These transports are run by Coop. That's good, of course. The commute between Gothenburg and Oslo is also a very good initiative, but not many trains go there. It may not be Sweden's main freight route either. The state-owned company Jernhusen has long tried to create a freight commuter from southern Sweden up to the terminal in Årsta here in Stockholm. They've been doing some math on it. If one were to set up a pendulum from Skåne that goes up to Årsta five times a week, it would replace 36 truck transports every day. In one year, it corresponds to 17 000 lorries that would not have to go on the road with the noise, congestion and emissions involved. Instead, the goods would go by rail. Emissions would be reduced by thousands of tonnes. Do we want such a pendulum? You can also imagine a similar one from Gothenburg to Stockholm. There's a lot of interest. But if we want this to get started, some form of state aid is needed. The first year or the first two three years could guarantee that this is a pendulum that goes around economically. There are a number of proposals in this area. The Finnish Transport Agency has proposed a start-up guarantee. Traffic analysis speaks of a wider ecobonus. One can imagine that the state or the Finnish Transport Administration will go directly in and make a procurement and ensure that there is funding. I see no such proposals in Tomas Eneroth's reply to me. I would therefore like to know what more the Minister intends to do to ensure that we have permanent rail freight commutes for the transport of goods.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-596	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the commitment! I really do share it. I think that both Jens Holm and I are passionate about the desire for the transport system to change and become sustainable but also for more freight to go by rail and by shipping. It's incredibly important. For those who have been added to the debate, it might be good to know that what Jens Holm referred to earlier about reduced congestion from road to rail comes from a RUT memo on two sides. It concluded that this cannot be measured because reliable statistics are not available. So what the chairman of the Transport Committee is now saying is a truth with modification. That's the first thing I wanted to say. The second is that if we look at freight commutes, 5 935 million tonne-kilometres of combined trains were used in domestic and international traffic in Sweden in 2019. That's a real increase. It's going in the right direction, but it's going too slow. I'm definitely not happy. If I had been, we would definitely not have spent SEK 400 million annually now on the huge investment to stimulate and increase the conditions for rail freight. Then we would not have had a national freight transport strategy for two years. We are now making greater efforts than ever in Sweden to ensure that we have a sustainable transport system for goods but also a clear shift from road to rail and shipping. I share the view that the roads are too crowded. It is also a long journey from a sustainability point of view until we have electrified all road transport. I hope it will be quick now that we have the Electrification Commission in place, but it will take time. That is why we need to put even more goods on rail and shipping so that it does not get crowded on the roads. Of course, these are supposed to be the nicest conditions for those who drive on the roads. I note that Jens Holm mentions foreign lorries. Basically, we want to ensure that those who drive on Swedish roads – even if they drive in foreign trucks – should have fair conditions. It shall be the same as for Swedish hauliers. It shall be secondment from day one. This is precisely what we have achieved when we have pushed through the mobility package at European level. Together with efforts relating to chopping, ordering responsibility and penalties, we now have better conditions than ever to create order and order on the roads. It is a work that this and the previous Social Democratic-led government have prioritised in order to ensure that road transport is also carried out under fair conditions. However, there is no doubt that more can be done. On the other hand, I am not as keen as Jens Holm is on establishing state-organised freight transport. We must ensure that the actors involved develop their responsibilities. We are doing so with economic stimulus, by facilitating rules and by increasing the conditions for relocation. What I am particularly concerned about, however, and which I have chosen to commission the Swedish Transport Administration to look at, concerns Trelleborg and the connections to Germany. For those who do not know it, freight transport systems are important for transporting within Sweden but also out to the continent. Much of our exports go there, not least to Germany. There is a railway ferry between Trelleborg and Germany, but it is unfortunately available. There could be more traffic there. We have therefore commissioned Trafikverket to see together with the shipping company and other stakeholders what further efforts can be made to strengthen this particular transport route so that not all transport goes via the Öresund Bridge. This is done to create redundancy in the transport system but also to see if there is any reason to make special financial effort. For those who are transport buyers, it should be a reasonable premium to ensure that this route is also available so as to avoid any expensive downtime costs at a stop on the Öresund bridge.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-607	Madam President, I would like Let's start with the statistics. The statement that rail freight transport decreased by 3 percentage points in 2019 comes from Traffic Analysis, not from the memorandum that the parliamentary investigation service has done on my behalf. What the parliamentary investigation service did on my behalf, however, was an attempt to quantify the effects of the Minister's freight transport strategy, which has now been in place for two years. They noted that they could not find any quantifiable positive results of the Minister's freight transport strategy. It made me feel like we need a little stronger instruments. The freight transport strategy is great. We'll keep working on it. But perhaps a little more concrete measures are needed in order for us to really move transport from road to rail and shipping. The Minister mentions the annual environmental compensation of 400 million. We in the Left Party are behind it. The only problem, Madam President, is that the Minister is taking SEK 2 billion with the other hand at the same time. That is five times more than what he pays in subsidies for sustainable freight transport. This takes the form of rail charges. The railway fee is a fee paid by those who transport on Swedish railways to the state. Rail freight charges have increased tremendously in the last ten years – they have increased by almost 300 per cent since 2009. This is stated in one of the reports I have brought here. It is from the Swedish Transport Administration and has been made on behalf of the Minister. You can't give with one hand and take the other hand. Let us talk about freight commutes and about creating permanent routes for rail freight transport. There is a great deal of interest out there, but you want to know that these commutes are still there next week and next month. That is why the Swedish Transport Administration in this report is talking about a start-up guarantee, i.e. a smaller contribution. I would like to correct the Minister a little and say that it is not the state that should drive these commutes, but it is of course the industry that can drive. But the state is going in with a small contribution – which is gradually phased out – the first three years to build up volumes of goods that can be transported, for example from Gothenburg to Stockholm and from Malmö or Helsingborg up to Stockholm. Another proposal also comes on the Minister's direct mission. It comes from Traffic Analysis, which talks about what is called a broadened ecobonus. An eco-bonus is available today for shipping. It is said that this is a good support system. It could also be used for rail, precisely for the creation of rail freight commutes. I would like to ask the Minister: has the Minister taken note of these concrete proposals? Is he just going to throw them in the trash basket or leave them in some locker somewhere in the department, or is he going to do something concrete with this? Can the Minister give some kind of answer? Does he think that pendulums are good and that it is reasonable for the state to go in and give this guarantee for the first few years so that we can set up these pendulums and really move goods from road to rail? I would like to know, Madam President.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-615	Madam President, I would like I am smiling here, and I am doing it because I think it is wonderful that the examples that Jens Holm highlights are examples that come from directives and assignments that I have given to the authorities that are under the Ministry of Infrastructure precisely to get more proposals. These proposals are, of course, being discussed and dealt with within the framework of the work of the government. It is clear that I am prepared to make a great many efforts to increase traffic, not least freight commutes. Not least this 400 million SEK per year shows the strong commitment of the government to increasing this opportunity. It is precisely because we need to make more efforts that I have asked the Swedish Transport Administration, Trafikanalys and other authorities to come up with various suggestions. These proposals are prepared within the framework of the work of the Freight Transport Council. We can pinpoint several of the efforts made to get a shift from road to shipping and to rail, to improve the conditions for route thinking and more intermodality, and to increase horizontal coordination, i.e. better ensure that information is exchanged on which goods are to be transported in Sweden and then can increase the filling rate so that there are no empty commutes in one direction and full wagons elsewhere. In fact, it's going in the right direction. In 2019, as I said earlier, 5,935 million tonne-kilometres went by combined train. The figure was lower in 2018, but of course we need to do more. Jens Holm and the Left Party always have more money; so it is. The advantage of being in opposition is that you can spend a lot more money. However, we choose to prioritise actions that we know produce results, and we prepare several different proposals in order to be able to make further efforts. However, we are also in the midst of a pandemic and we have to maintain the operation and competence of the transport system, whether we are talking about shipping companies, railway undertakings, public transport or other parts of the transport system. Let us continue to work together with many good proposals to strengthen the possibility of rail freight. I would like to pursue the discussion on Trelleborg that I started in the last round of the debate. I believe that if we are to create more roads out for goods by rail, there must not only be a signal to the government to pay more, but then there must also be a signal to transport buyers to think about what positions they make when choosing transport routes. Let me give you an example. We are now working on climate declarations and hope to get a proposal that will make it possible to account for the climate footprint of each transport that takes place. This will mean that the transport buyers – and there are probably quite a few – who today say that they want to reduce their carbon footprint will look at where they can find the smartest roads for this. The answer is probably not road transport but rail transport. In this way, transport buyers can use climate accounting to a greater extent to choose what is climate-smart transport, i.e. shipping and rail. In this case, it will be particularly interesting to see the readiness to maintain rail traffic between Trelleborg and Germany or other routes that are important for having good and climate-smart transport routes but which are currently not fully exploited. So it is partly a question of financial incentives from the government; I can share that view. We are also making many efforts, not least historically large environmental compensations. But it is also about attitudes and expectations of transport buyers.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-624	Madam President, I would like The Minister is to be commended for his optimism. That's good. That is what we need, because there are quite a lot of challenges ahead of us. More than 3 million trucks come to Swedish quays from other countries every year. Of these, 2 million are in Skåne or Blekinge, while 500,000 are in Stockholm harbours and another 500,000 are in Gothenburg harbour. Most of these continue driving on the road. There are excellent opportunities for rail transhipment at terminals in our ports. We need to get these transports to move – unless there is shorter transport within the country, they will move to more sustainable modes of transport. They shall either continue to go to sea or move to rail. The Minister says it's going in the right direction, but I'm not sure. I know we used to have fixed pendulums. I know Green Cargo was driving. Norwegian Cargonet drove from Gothenburg to Stockholm; they closed down about ten years ago. It is something that has actually become more difficult for rail freight, and I think it has a lot to do with the economics. Road charges are increasingly being paid to the state, so either rail charges have to be significantly reduced or direct aid for freight commutes is to be found. It can also be a combination of these. Getting a pair of well-functioning freight pendulums started is not rocket science – it's not strange things. A start-up guarantee is needed. There is a need for a wider eco-bonus. There is a need for procurement. Some of this is needed, so that for a few years we go in with a small sum and guarantee that these pendulums can get started. I ask for the last time: is the Minister prepared to take the initiative in this regard? These are proposals that are on the Minister's table; they have been there for over a year. Now we need a workshop, Tomas Eneroth.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-630	Madam President, I would like I really appreciate the enthusiasm and the thought that a number of efforts will revolutionise the world. As I said in the last shift, this proposal is one that I myself have made sure that we have worked out. What has happened this year – I do not think anyone in this country has missed it – is that we have suffered a pandemic and that we have been forced to make extraordinary efforts, with eleven additional amending budgets, to even maintain capacity, not least in the freight transport system. The government's priority has been to ensure that we can maintain good goods transport in order to secure food security and to secure imports and exports. In this context, the work has worked relatively well thanks to the efforts we have made. However, in addition to the previous SEK 200 million, we now add 400 million annually to rail freight transport. I will, of course, also look at all the proposals that the authorities have now made on my behalf, because I want us to continue along this path. I would like to take this opportunity to say that rail is not everywhere, but trucks are needed. We need transport on the road to have a living countryside. We need transport on the road in order to have flexibility. We need transport on the road in order to meet all the requirements we have to bring goods to us throughout the country. That is why road transport must also change. That is why we need to electrify, use biofuels, expand charging infrastructure, invest in electric roads and otherwise ensure that it is not only in metropolitan areas that there are good opportunities for freight transport and sustainable transport. It's supposed to be all over the country. Then not all goods can pass by rail and shipping. We must ensure sustainable transport throughout the country. That is also the government's priority.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-635	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me two questions about the location of stations on the new main rail lines for high-speed trains. The January agreement, the substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, states that high-speed trains should be completed so that Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and regions and cities along and in connection with the route of the track are better connected with modern and sustainable communications. New high-speed trains are a very large project. It is important that it is carefully analysed, including how the runways are to be financed. The Government therefore gave the Swedish Transport Administration a special assignment in June of this year to present updated and additional information regarding new main roads within a total investment framework of SEK 205 billion, in the 2017 price level. At the same time, Trafikverket was also tasked with developing a focus paper for the work on a new national plan, which was presented on 30 October this year. On 31 August this year, the Finnish Transport Agency submitted a first, initial, interim report on the assignment of new main routes. It contains comprehensive analyses, assessments of the overall systemic consequences and assessments ahead of the Finnish Transport Administration's continued work. It should be made clear that this interim report does not contain any comments from the Finnish Transport Administration. It is rather an account of some of the issues ahead of further work. With regard to the memorandum from the Swedish Transport Administration that Jens Holm's interpellation is based on, I can see that it has been prepared for the dialogue meetings Trafikverket held with municipalities, regions and industry organisations at the beginning of November this year. The Swedish Transport Administration is now continuing its mission to develop an in-depth basis and not least highlight other factors that affect costs such as technical standards, production technology and planning conditions. That mission shall be reported in full by 28 February 2021 at the latest.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-640	Madam President, I would like High-speed rail lines will be the investment of the century in the rail system in Sweden. It is not often that much investment is made. When we build new runways, we have the opportunity to move a lot of transport from aviation to the railways. We should do this to reduce our emissions. We also have the opportunity to unload the current routes so that they can function more as regional routes. We simply pump more capacity into the rail system. We make sure that you can drive more trains and that everyone should be able to travel by train, which is the most sustainable way. But we have to do it the right way. We need good evidence to make decisions on the construction of the new runways. I would like to remind you that there have been a lot of studies on high-speed roads. Much has been planned, not least within the framework of the so-called Swedish negotiation. Municipalities around the country, in the affected areas, have shaken hands with the state and said: Yes, we undertake to build new homes and to develop our cities if you build the new tracks and trains stay with us. Madam President, I would like It was therefore strange that the Government commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to come up with a concrete proposal based on a completely different calculation than the one negotiated in Sweden. The Swedish negotiations have talked about SEK 230 billion, in addition to the 2015 price level. But in the proposal presented by Tomas Eneroth to the Swedish Transport Administration, it was only SEK 205 billion, i.e. SEK 25 billion less, to handle. We can almost say: As you ask, you get answers. If such a proposal is made to the Finnish Transport Administration, they must cut back on something. And the Finnish Transport Administration has now done so in its proposal. I would like to emphasise that it is a basis for discussion. It is important to say that it is not definitive. But it is also important that we have time to discuss the proposal here too. A large part of the railway stations – Norrköping, Linköping, Jönköping, Borås and Landvetter – have been placed in external locations in several of the scenarios that the Swedish Transport Administration paints. An external station mode requires, as the Swedish Transport Administration says in its documentation, that you travel there, and it is predicted that most will travel there by car. Madam President, I would like Does the Minister think that it will be a sustainable way to get to and from the station if you are going there by your own car? Does the Minister think it is a good solution to put train stations outside the cities and not centrally inside the city, where otherwise we are used to train stations being located? If he thinks it is not a good idea with external station modes, it is a good idea that he is already clear here and now and perhaps gives Trafikverket a new assignment where external station modes are not an option or possibly the last option, when there are no others.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-646	Madam President, I would like I very much agree with Jens Holm that we need to invest more in the railways and increase capacity. I was reminded not long ago, about a year ago, when I was on the millionth train. It was the millionth train that went on the railroad that year. There have never been so many trains on the Swedish railway. It was my way of paying attention to the joy that more and more people want to ride trains, from the climate point of view, and that more and more companies want to send goods on the trains. But I also wanted to manifest that it is crowded on the tracks. There are now so many trains that it is getting crowded. Trafikverket warns that we're hitting the capacity ceiling. That is why more rail is needed. The last thing Jens Holm knows. But it is important for those who listen to know that if we want to continue to change the transport sector and achieve the climate targets, we need to invest in more rail. There's no doubt about it. New main courses are an important part of it. The Swedish hearing worked in a commendable way to mobilise commitment and interest, and not only in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, but not least in Linköping, Norrköping, Hässleholm, Borås and Jönköping. It was also shown that along the main roads we will build cities and residential areas. We will invest in climate-smart transport and in regional enlargement, so that we have better opportunities with the railways to travel to family and friends and to commute to work climate-smartly. At the same time as we increase capacity, we release the possibility of having more freight on the Southern Main Line or increasing the number of commuter trains. We avoid what many have probably experienced at some point, that an X2000 train must reduce speed because there is a slow commuter or freight train ahead. By separating it you can increase the possibility of more transport, for example on new main roads, and for higher speeds. The Transport Administration is working on it. Already in the current national plan, we have established the investment in Linköping– Järna, Gothenburg– Borås and Lund– Hässleholm. The government's starting point is to continue with the construction. This is important for Sweden. But it is also important to ensure that resources are used efficiently. I have noted that building infrastructure is becoming more and more expensive. The cost and cost increase for building infrastructure is even higher than for much other construction. It's not sustainable. As much as I want to invest in rail, road and maritime transport, it must be done at a reasonable price. Therefore, in addition to the assignment with a cost ceiling, there is a commission to Trafikverket to specifically analyse the cost increases we see now in the construction of infrastructure. In the current assignment, which the Swedish Transport Administration has now sub-reported, the focus is on getting a discussion about how system changes can cheaply cost the construction of main roads. The Finnish Transport Agency is now continuing to look at production costs, among other things. Let me take a familiar example. When Trafikverket looked at the possibility of moving from slab track, concrete columns, to ballasted between Linköping and Järna, it turned out that this changed construction technique could mean 11 billion in lower costs – while travel time was perhaps extended four to six minutes. I can understand that this is a reasonable question to ask. And since I want us to have new high-speed main lines too, I want us to nail each crown so that we know we get more rail for the money.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-655	Madam President, I would like Let's start at the end with how we build new paths most rationally. I certainly agree that there is much to learn, not least how to do things in other countries. For example, building on pillars would work in many places in Sweden where today we think that high-speed roads will be built. It would also require less space than building new embankments and so on. Madam President, I would like I have long lacked a vision from the Minister for Infrastructure and the Government on how to build high-speed roads. It is clear to me that this project is suitable for exactly what the Swedish negotiation proposed: it borrows the entire amount and makes a separate project in a separate project organisation. It is done in industrial form, thus building several parts at the same time and expanding the tracks as quickly as possible. They should not be built part by part through new appropriations requested from the state budget, which is the model we have now, because then it takes too long. It also costs more money than if you do it as a separate project. We can learn a lot from how the Öresund Bridge was built, because it was built on about those premises. Madam President, I would like We in the Left Party are deeply frustrated that there is so little happening in the high-speed railway project, and so comes a proposal that feels completely out of place. Is this how we're going to push construction costs by having a station out in a field where there's no human being? The minister was really onto something when he said to Kristianstadsbladet on 10 November: ..................................................... Can the Minister of Infrastructure confirm that's what he said? Because if that's what he said, we're pretty much in agreement that external station modes aren't a good solution. Yet we get a proposal where external station will be located in Norrköping, Linköping, Jönköping, Borås, Landvetter and so on. That can't be a good solution, can it? Is the Minister of Infrastructure prepared to give Trafikverket a new assignment and say that this was not a good idea but that Trafikverket should find other ways to pressure construction costs? And why did the Minister not start from the Swedish negotiation proposal when he gave the Swedish Transport Administration the assignment? Why not say 230 billion which was the proposal in the Swedish hearing? It is nevertheless the Swedish negotiation that is the basis for the cooperation that we have with all the municipalities and regions concerned around the country. I think a lot of people want to know why the Minister has resigned from the Swedish hearing.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-664	Madam President, I would like I am not sure that many people want to know, because so far I have not been asked that question. This is not true either, because the starting point is, among other things, the proposal of the Swedish hearing. It was a solid and successful work by HG Wessberg – peace over his memory – and Catharina Håkansson Boman. They did a fantastic job of mobilising municipalities and regions in a good way, which is also the starting point for the work. I am especially happy when Jens Holm chooses to quote me, because that is the dream of all the ministers. Of course, the starting point is this. We are building railways to increase opportunities for regional enlargement. We will increase communications in the country and take advantage of the commitment of municipalities and regions. However, the Finnish Transport Agency is an independent authority that has the task of looking at ways to get such a large and important effort to stay within the cost framework and also how to reduce cost increases in large infrastructure projects. Therefore, it will be exciting when the assignment is presented in its entirety and we will see changes in production technology or other things that may reduce costs. At the moment, particular attention is being paid to a discussion about excavations. There is a risk that excavations will be more expensive in the future as a result of an interpretation that another authority has made about natural and environmental values in excavations. This would, of course, cost not only new high-speed baselines but also many other infrastructure projects in our country. We need to build more infrastructure. We need more capacity in the Swedish rail system. An important part of building new main roads and getting it quickly implemented is to have a unified organisational form. It will also be implemented industrially, because we need to find smart construction techniques. Therefore, it was interesting when the study showed that with changed construction technology between Linköping and Järna it would be 11 billion cheaper and extended travel time by just four to six minutes. We should be careful with state resources and our common tax resources. I think the starting point is that we should have more rail for the money. I look forward to seeing the expertise and competence at Trafikverket report how, for example, changes in production technology can make the main roads cheaper to build. Unlike Jens Holm, I do not intend to speak warmly for any particular construction technique. Whether it should be pillars, ballasted, slab track or other techniques, I leave with a warm hand to engineers. However, I am careful that we use international experience. That is why we have concluded a special agreement with France, among others. Thanks to Prime Minister Lövven's and President Macron's cooperation, we have also concluded an agreement at the level of the Minister of Transport to exchange information and knowledge on the construction of high-speed rail lines. Here the French have broad experience, which neither Swedish entrepreneurs nor the Swedish Transport Administration have. This exchange of knowledge is important, because this will be the largest industrial project in Sweden in modern times. It can be likened to the construction of the main roads once upon a time. Therefore, it is important that we carefully analyse and update the data before taking a final position. But once we do, we will build as quickly and as smartly as possible.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-673	Madam President, I would like I asked a number of questions and sometimes there are not always answers in these debates. But I actually got quite a few answers. One question was why the Minister does not start from the Swedish negotiation, and the Minister replied that the starting point is the Swedish negotiation. That's good. Then external station locations should not be a solution at all, and then the budget should also be larger than what the Minister set out as a framework and limitation for the Finnish Transport Administration. Therefore, it is still a little shrouded in mystery where the number 205 billion kroner comes from. The Minister for Infrastructure still has one chance to answer that. The minister also confirmed that he was correctly quoted and that it would be no use if the trains were just passing through the cities. I take that as a pretty clear statement that external stations are not a very good solution. I was also told that the Minister thinks it reasonable to build high-speed roads as a separate industrial project. Of course, I am not saying that they should go on pillars in all places; I said that as an interesting, concrete example because we are still talking about pressured production costs and new solutions. The last question, to which I did not get an answer, is simply: When will it be a decision that we will build high-speed rail lines in Sweden? There are very many of us who want to know about it, and we have waited a very long time. If the Minister could give us that information tonight, I would be very grateful.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-679	Madam President, I would like The last question puzzles me somewhat. Nevertheless, it should be quite familiar that decisions on infrastructure investments in Sweden are taken in national plans. This is where we decide what infrastructure investments we make, and the decisions about Gothenburg– Borås, Lund– Hässleholm or for that matter Linköping – Järna are decisions that are already in the national plan. It is clear that when we decide on infrastructure, the starting point is the framework that Parliament makes available to the government after an infrastructure bill, and then it is a decision in a national plan. This is how we in Sweden decide on infrastructure projects. Otherwise, I think that the starting point must be the solid work that an alliance government actually started. It is interesting to note both for Jens Holm as a left-wing partyist and for me as a social democrat that it was a bourgeois government that began the work within the framework of the Swedish negotiation. Then we took up the position of government – the Social Democrats together with the Green Party – and continued the work. Unfortunately, the Moderates and Christian Democrats at national level have changed and are no longer behind the construction of new main lines. However, we can note that in Sweden's regions there is a very strong support, not least in Jönköping, Gothenburg, Hässleholm, Borås, Linköping and other places along the main tracks. Why is that? Because in the construction of new railways, we also see the possibility of developing cities and labour market regions, of building more housing and of meeting the climate targets. In addition to all the discussions on construction techniques, I believe that the important thing for anyone listening to this debate is to remember why we are discussing the construction of more rail: it is to meet the climate requirements and to ensure that we in our generation assume our responsibilities. That's where the construction of the railroad is very smart.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-684	Madam President, I would like Angelika Bengtsson has asked me three questions about the survival of dance bands based on the coronapandemia that is going on. She asks me if I agree that the dance band culture is at great risk of disappearing permanently as a result of the coronapandemia and its effects, how to ensure that the dance bands live on after the pandemic and how to ensure that folk parks and other scenes and places remain and do not go bankrupt as a result of the coronapndemine. Let me first state that I really understand the very difficult and serious situation of cultural activities and dance bands during this pandemic. Convenient recommendations calling for distance between people make it impossible or, in any case, make dance band arrangements difficult, as the dance requires closeness between people. The dance bands are an important part of the supply of culture throughout the country. In addition to the fact that the dance bands contribute to our Music and Culture Sweden and to movement, joy and proximity, which are so important parts of our well-being, the dance bands are also important for the tourism industry in many places around the country. During the year, the Government has introduced various crisis support measures aimed both at the business community in general and at the particularly affected cultural area. Of this year's targeted crisis support totalling SEK 2.5 billion to the cultural area, 1 billion is already allocated. I know that the part of the crisis support that the National Council for Culture has been responsible for has also been granted to certain dance bands. During 2021, additional crisis support to the cultural area will be sought by dance bands, other cultural actors and organisers. The government has recently announced, on 9 November, that it will extend several other crisis support measures so that we can work together through this pandemic and at the same time reduce the damage to culture, industry in general and the rest of society. The aid covers, inter alia, short-term lay-off, deferral of tax payments, conversion aid and turnover aid to individual traders. These support can also be applied for by artists and cultural actors, i.e. dance bands and dance organisers. During the year and for the coming years, the government has also strengthened state support for public spaces, which among other things Folkets Hus and Parker and other local organisations can apply for. The government is making significant and necessary efforts to make Kultursverige cope with the crisis. However, all the good forces are needed if we are to continue to have a strong cultural life even after the crisis. The government has therefore also strengthened the finances of regions and municipalities through significant reinforcements of the general state contribution. The reinforcements amount to SEK 26 billion in 2020 and SEK 22.5 billion in 2021. These funds can also be used in the field of culture. In addition, further support will be needed for culture in view of the difficult situation and the increased restrictions that are now affecting cultural life even more. Since the crisis struck last spring, I have been constantly engaged in dialogues, meetings and discussions with many different cultural actors in order to gain knowledge of the situation in all aspects of cultural life. The other week, together with Minister Mikael Damberg and the Public Health Agency, I had a so-called audience council for cultural and sports organizers about the conditions for receiving audiences and how the rules can change when the pandemic eventually eases. It was a very good meeting, and stakeholders and the Public Health Agency will have continued dialogue. To answer Angelika Bengtsson's three questions, I would like to summarize the following: I do not think that the dance bands will disappear for good in the future. I think that the love of dance band music and dance persists, which is why even the dance band culture will remain even after the pandemic has released us. That is what I and the government work for every day.
i-J4BBqXiLf1NAteUAk4w35f	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Culture Amanda Lind, for the answer to my interpellation! At first sight, the question of the survival of dance bands may seem a little banal, especially if you yourself do not have an interest or an understanding of how great this culture and genre actually are. Each year there are 9 000 dances with 3.5 million people. This compares with football, which had 3.2 million in the audience in 2019 and none this year. I am fully aware that the dance bands have also been able to take part in the crisis support that has been presented during the year. Some bands have searched, others have not. However, I and many with me are still concerned about the survival of the bands. It is, as the Minister also writes in his reply, not only the ties that this question is about, but they become part of a cycle. Without tapes, no music. We all understand that part. But without a dance course no bands can be booked, and then there will be no revenue for anyone. This will not only be a cultural issue, but also, indeed, a matter of economic policy, which in itself is not on the table of the Minister for Culture but as close as you can get. The dance venues that remain are important and of great importance to the district and the town. Many times they may not be in the central city but a bit outside. For this reason, this will also be a rural issue. The whole country should live – not just Stockholm. Madam President, I would like I'm worried that many bands will lose hope of starting to play and touring again. Although I hope that we can open up theatre parlors, cinemas and the whole community again in the summer, there is a lot to suggest that this will not happen. We will see 2021 as another year of tough restrictions. For this reason, it becomes even more important to have something to look forward to that makes you happy. The dance is something many people miss and look forward to: Where are we going to sleep tonight? Smileing golden brown eyes. Gold and green forests. That's not how 2020 turned out. Many people ask themselves if we've danced and sung them for the last time. The industry faces many challenges and real problems. They have had to sell the tour bus to get liquidity in the company. The industry has been abandoned to make a living, for example by becoming a carpenter or a driver. How will the industry recover when you have neither the spark, the material nor the desire to return to the dance band life? I genuinely wonder how the government sees this. The bands escape the industry because you don't feel hope for the future. When hope has left you, how will you survive?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-699	Madam President, I would like I agree with what Angelika Bengtsson describes. This applies to the dance bands as a cultural expression, as a forum for rural development and the importance for local tourism. This is especially true of the joy that so many long for when it comes to dancing. The sense of hopelessness that Angelika Bengtsson describes is found in many in the dance band sector and also reflects the hopelessness that exists in large parts of cultural life now. That, of course, seems to me to be extremely sad, and that is something where we need to do what we can from a political point of view to make things easier. We are in the midst of a pandemic now, and it is in many ways unpredictable to see where it will go. Nevertheless, it is important that we can work with several things at the same time. As a result of the more severe restrictions and the increased spread of infection, we really need to put our energies into combating the pandemic. It's tough, but I feel a commitment from large parts of society. I stood today in the press room and had a press briefing with representatives of the religions. Now we are entering perhaps the most important period for many Christians. In that situation, closing the churches pains too many, but one realizes that this is the moment it needs to be done to reverse the spread of the disease. We need to get a broad consensus behind this, because the faster we fight the infection, the faster we can also get back to normal. At the same time, however, we must prepare for another reality. We must both support the sectors most affected and ensure that there is an opportunity for recovery and re-launch. We have to plan for a situation where the infection is different. That is the work that I have raised in the audience council that the government has called in to. This is the task we have given the Swedish Public Health Agency to look at how to think ahead when it comes to regulations. Then there is the work on the new Pandemic Act. These are important points. It gives hope, and it gives the feeling that we want and need to see a different future. The dance, which is so much based on contact between people and many who share a dance floor together, is particularly affected by the pandemic. Then I mean that it is of course important to work with vaccines. It gives hope in itself, even if we are not to believe that it will be quick. And financial support is also necessary. I am very pleased that the government announced a few weeks ago that we will extend the support for short-term lay-off well into next year. We have also extended the turnover aid for self-employed workers and the conversion aid. It's important. For the dance bands in particular, we know that short-term lay-offs have been one of the most important economic policy support measures to complement targeted cultural support. Right now the Swedish Arts Council is working to distribute the latest support package to free cultural life. As I and the government have said before, we believe, based on the new situation, that if the pandemic affects the cultural area for a long time, there will be a need for further support. The budget for next year also includes 1 billion dedicated to the re-launch of culture. The longer the pandemic will affect, the more that money will certainly take the form of crisis support, but we must also have the idea of changing culture and re-launching it in front of our eyes. I am glad that Angelika Bengtsson lifted up the dance bands, because it is a particularly vulnerable group that I will follow carefully next year.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-707	Madam President, I would like Those who have protested and been heard in the debate have proposed, among other things, a reduced VAT rate and a seated audience limit of 500 people. This was in itself before the second pandemic wave struck. After an even more restrictive audience limit that finally landed on eight people for public gatherings, it feels far from opening up to the dance bands in view of the proximity of dance. Has the government looked or even thought about whether it is possible to have other restrictions just to try to open up as far as possible? For example, it may be open to couples who live together, or people who meet often, given that these are the ones we are now meeting according to the recommendations, or to open up for a percentage of the maximum number that a local can receive. It may be about 20 percent of an audience or crowd that a local can take. Is there something the government has been looking at? It is still important to encourage and create incentives for reopening. There is much to be said about government policy and much has been done. But what I really want to try to draw the Minister's attention to is that the issue is not small or banal. Dance attracts more than those who watch football, and there are many; 3.5 million people. This is the time to save what can be saved. The support presented in the field of culture is numerous, and there has been broad support. It is because the field of culture in politics is broad. It can be an advantage, but it can also be a disadvantage. With regard to the aid packages that the Minister intends to present in the future, will priority be given to those areas of the industry that have not been given priority? Can we see that the dance bands get a priority bet? Or will it be as broad a stake as before?
i-4d00b072ed53249e-712	Madam President, I would like Let me start with Angelika Bengtsson's question whether the government has looked at the regulations, to open up a more flexible regulatory framework for, for example, couples living together or a percentage of an arena. There is the answer that as long as we use the law of order, it will be problematic with such exceptions. It will be difficult to formulate them and, above all, it will be difficult to control them. Criminal law is linked to the Code of Conduct, so the police should be able to quickly see if the conditions are being complied with. There it can be difficult with such conditions and requirements. Even a percentage of an arena has not been considered to be possible under exceptions to the Scheme Act. However, we will have to look at the work on the new Pandemic Act. There, the goal is that the law should be able to be used with a focus on combating a pandemic and that activities that can be carried out infection-proof should be able to do so without being affected in the way that the law has led to consequences. I cannot anticipate the process that is now taking place in terms of exactly what that flexibility will look like. The Ministry of Social Affairs is working on this issue, then we will see when the proposal is on the table what it can mean. As far as culture is concerned, I see that activities that can be assessed can be carried out in a way that is safe for infection. The proposals for exceptions that Angelika Bengtsson highlights here, i.e. to make exceptions for sitting audiences with distance between places, was something that we had finished last autumn and went out with. At about the same time, the spread of infection began to take off in different parts of the country, which led to regional restrictions being imposed by county governments. Now we are also in a different situation when eight is the norm. It is also something that the county boards have chosen to put for sitting audiences. It's also about hope. It is important that the derogation remains in place. When there is an opportunity, when the infection eases, the regulations are in place. It will then be quick for current county boards in those regions where it is possible, where the contamination situation allows, to gradually release for a little more sitting audience under safe conditions. We have to work like that now, that is to say, fight the infection hard here and now and also have the aim forward. For all those parts of the cultural sector and many other sectors, the hope for the future is important. The fact that there is a future can determine that one wants to continue to fight and stay in the sector, which is important in terms of cultural competence. I will also say that the support that we have introduced now, the targeted support for assembly halls, of course, is important. As regards the support we give to the cultural sector, it is important that they are broad, as Angelika Bengtsson says. But we have also tried to get accuracy so that they can reach many parts of the cultural sector, which are affected in different ways. I think it may be difficult to specifically spend money on an individual form of expression. There are quite a few parts in not least live culture, performing arts and dance culture that are hard hit. But we will constantly and continuously evaluate what support we have and make sure that they are as accurate as possible. We will also be able to complement the business support that is also available. I think it is very important that we ensure that not only companies but also civil society have the opportunity to apply. We know that associations and, to a large extent, organisers are important for the infrastructure that enables culture and dance bands throughout the country.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-720	Madam President, I would like The accuracy that the Minister is talking about is important, not least for this industry. I cannot stress enough how important it is to think about it for future aid packages to be presented. I understand that it is difficult not to have a pandemic team in place. It's sad that you haven't worked faster on it. It is the same with the audience question – it should have been in place before the summer, I think. It was six months before you got the meeting on an audience council. It was far too late – not least for this business, which has summer as its peak season. That's when you get the whole year's income. Again: The more people leave the industry, and there will be many before this year is over, the fewer there is left with a hope for the future. Let's not forget that. That being said, listen to your heart, and weep no tears! The last sweet years I hope we listen and dance to with a papaya coconut a summer in Sweden in 2021. There's a lot to do. I sincerely hope that the Minister does not forget this industry in general. It is important for those in it but also for us who like to dance and sing to the dance bands. Thank you for this debate.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-726	Madam President, I would like First let me say that before the summer, when we went towards May and the beginning of June, we still had very high death rates in Sweden. Then the focus was on combating the pandemic. We did not know then what the development would be like during the summer. Since then we have been working on getting a process and clear exceptions from the law of order, but also on starting the long-term work, and I think that is important. I can also wish that we could have started faster with it, but the pandemic has been the most important thing to work with. This was particularly true before the summer. As far as the audience council is concerned, both I and the Ministry of Culture and many other departments have of course met various actors continuously since the crisis began. But I think it is important, now that we see that it will affect the sector for a long time, that we set up this piece of advice in order to have that forum in the future. As I said, dance band culture is an important tradition, an important cultural form for many people and a living cultural heritage for our country. I maintain that no pandemic in the world can kill people's love and desire for music and dance. That is why I am convinced that the dance band culture will continue to exist even after the pandemic, and that is what I and the government are working for. Having said that, we should not underestimate the damage caused by the pandemic to cultural life and the dance band culture. This is a tough crisis for all of us to go through, and when we don't get to enjoy culture like dance and music, it gets even tougher and poorer. It's gonna take time, but we're gonna make it. One day I hope we can see each other again, hug again and dance again. I think it is that day, that light in the tunnel, that we can all be motivated by in order to put up with the exceptionally comprehensive measures now needed to combat the pandemic. This is also why the government is taking exceptional emergency measures. One day we'll be standing there.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-732	Madam President, I would like Aron Emilsson has asked me whether I believe ethnicity is a relevant factor in recruitment in the field of culture and whether I will work for the government to clarify the position on discrimination, representation and identity policy within the area of responsibility of the Minister for Culture. Aron Emilsson has also asked if it is my view that some representation of ethnicity, gender or other belongings is relevant in radio, on television and in Swedish film productions and whether these should be objectives for support. If this is not the case, the interpeller will ask me if I will work to change such cases. Finally, Aron Emilsson asks if it is the government's view that it is difficult to live into or have as a role model a person who has a different sex from his or her own or a different ethnicity from his or her own and that it is therefore relevant to representation in the field of culture. According to the national cultural policy objectives adopted by the Riksdag, culture should be a dynamic, challenging and untying force based on freedom of expression, where everyone should have the opportunity to participate in cultural life. It is an objective that is binding. All persons regardless of k island, transgender identity or expression, ethnicity, religion or other belief, disability, sexual orientation or age shall have the same opportunities to participate in and create culture. The broadcasting permits that regulate the activities of Swedish Radio, Swedish Television and Education Radio establish that the programme activities as a whole must be conducted from a gender equality and diversity perspective. It is also said that the range of programmes should reflect conditions throughout the country and the diversity of the population as a whole. The fact that equality, equality or diversity objectives exist in cultural and media policy is uncontroversial for most people. Objectives and conditions of this type have existed for a long time and have been decided by various but broad majorities in the Riksdag. These are objectives aimed at confirming that we are a society consisting of a diversity of people and that this diversity should be exploited in cultural and media policy as well as in social life in general. I therefore see, unlike Aron Emilsson, no reason to change or remove these targets. We humans are creative and empathetic creatures. We have the ability to understand other people's feelings and experiences. Gender, age or background are not crucial to our ability to portray another person's reality. These factors are also not crucial to our competence. Competence is available in individuals with different backgrounds throughout society. Access to a wide range of experiences and perspectives enriches both our society and our institutions. It is not up to me as Minister of Culture to decide which type of competence is relevant to an individual activity. Recruitment matters are handled by the person responsible for the activity in question. The principle of arm's length shall prevail between politics and cultural life. But it is important to stress that gender equality and diversity objectives are not aimed at opting out of skills, as Aron Emilsson suggests, but rather at opting for. It's about including.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-740	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Minister for Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind for her answer. Obviously, we have some different images of how far the problem of identity policy and discrimination is and has become, what it is all about and how it actually turns out, just no matter what the purpose is on paper in the intentions of the government and in the current cultural policy objectives of the Riksdag. I believe that the sweeping hurricane that identity policy has grown into is a sign of the broken cohesion that decades of relaxed community and segregation have laid the foundation for. The lack of belonging, a sense of homeliness and community means that qualifications must be deleted for irrelevant external criteria for recruitment, support, achievement of goals and group membership. This, Madam President, is what I show in the interpellation, in the form of fresh roll-calls at Swedish Radio and in the film industry. There have also been more voices in this description of the problem since I wrote the interpellation. It was also noticeable in the cultural heritage bill presented by the Government in 2017. What I am pointing out in the interpellation is not primarily an opinion or an opinion, but a series of facts which, I believe, are not answered in the Minister's reply. My view is that, like many others in this House and in the country, I think that this trend is directly detrimental to the individual, to the elected, to Swedish democracy and to the evaluation of skills and creativity. The development is particularly clear precisely on the responsibility of the Minister for Culture and Democracy, and it is no longer about individual external cases, but about something that is embedded in the government's own policy – hence my questions to the Government. Human beings should not be attributed to characteristics based on irrelevant external criteria. I hope we can agree on that. Trying to compensate for discrimination through representation and quotaing rather reinforces some people's false belief that internal characteristics can be derived from, for example, skin colour. We know that structural discrimination based on ethnicity and gender is very limited in Sweden in relation to many other countries, where this problem is greater. Rather, we have seen an increase in the number of cases of reverse racism and discrimination against the majority population. Although discrimination exists in society at various levels, it is not combated by new identity policies and representation, on the contrary. Two wrongs don't give a right. Rather, it is a question of giving people the tools to dismantle preconceived discriminatory views. It sits in people's deeds, knowledge, ways to face adversity and be constructive in meeting their fellows. Nor is it to be attributed to a set of norms, values and opinions on the basis of ethnicity or gender. Madam President, I would like At the time the state or another public principal, or for that matter one with public funding, accepts ideas that seek to attribute characteristics to people according to external irrelevant criteria, we see a sloping plan in all directions. When using an identity policy language, encouraging or even agreeing to apply diversity objectives in a way that makes skin colour or gender relevant to recruitments or particularly cognitive work, the government should clearly indicate against this. I do not feel that the Minister for Culture and Democracy does so in her answer and would therefore still like to know how Amanda Lind wants to break this destructive development and whether she can answer the four questions I have asked.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-751	Madam President, I would like This discussion is not quite as simple as Aron Emilsson wants to assert. For me, and according to what is written in the cultural and film policy objectives, which were also supported by Sweden's democrats, not least the goal of equality and diversity, it is about creating a level playing field for everyone. No matter who you are and where you come from, you should be able to go to the place in the community where you want to be. Today, there are structures that mean that not everyone has the same chance to establish themselves where they want to in society. I believe that it is a legitimate and perfectly reasonable objective for actors to make an effort to overcome this. In the past, it was impossible for many to imagine, for example, women MPs or ministers. For the vast majority, this is now a completely natural matter, but it did not come of itself. It came as a result of decades of democratic struggle. With the Swedish Democrats' laissez-faire policy, this too would have been seen as an irrelevant factor, and then we would not have been where we are today when it comes to Swedish gender equality. It is important that there are role models. It inspires, and it makes it easier for young people to venture into their dreams, no matter who they are. Although there are no formal obstacles to seeking a place, it can often be inhibiting for a person to experience the general feeling of not fitting in. Does Aron Emilsson not see this? Do the Swedish Democrats not recognise that there are obstacles of this type and that role modeling is important, just as it was important with the first female MP in this House, or the first female minister? I think it is very telling, Madam President, that the Swedish Democrats think that it is so terrifying with the ambitions of equality and diversity on the part of politics. It is easy to stand and reason on identity policy but much harder to point out an alternative direction. What is it that the Swedish Democrats want? Madam President, I would like Let me be clear: Of course, competence and ability are not in a person's skin colour or gender. But no one has claimed that either. Of course, formal qualifications, competence and quality should govern recruitments and decisions on cultural support. The principle of arm's length is absolutely crucial. That is also true today. This does not prevent one from actively trying to look more deeply and broadly in society when looking for skills. For me, work on diversity and gender equality is ultimately about improving quality and broadening and deepening selection. The larger the selection, the greater the opportunity to find the right skills. Diversity broadens perspectives and reduces the risk of group thinking and tunnel vision. Diversity throughout our society leads to freedom for the individual, and in my view it also leads to a better society.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-759	Madam President, I would like Let us note that there is a broad consensus today that discrimination is wrong in our country, in society and in all contexts where it occurs. The parliamentary democracy anniversary has been initiated, and in this country's highest decision-making body, the struggle, as the Minister for Culture himself said, is no longer about restricting or conditioning participation in our democratic arena. It is not a question of restricting or subjecting participation in schools or education or the possibility of applying for various services on the basis of gender, colour or anything else that we consider to be irrelevant today. The struggle is very much between constructiveness and destructiveness, I would say. It does not help minority groups or individuals to blame most or a large part of the problems on the majority society. It removes the incentive and belief that one as an individual has the ability to change one's situation. It does not help the majority society to attribute to certain groups a certain collectivist way of being, acting and acting without being able to see the individual. People should be judged according to their ability, and it is more reasonable to choose role models according to a person's actions than after, for example, skin color or gender. It is against this background, along with the fact that identity policy is moving far and wide towards the ambition of having the right person in the right place and avoiding activism, for example, in state-funded cultural and media institutions, that I ask these questions. It is because of a picture of reality that is emerging. In his reply, the Minister for Culture refers to the current cultural policy objectives of the Riksdag and to the fact that, regardless of your identity, you should have the same opportunity to participate in cultural life. We agree on this, and that is precisely why representation and delusion under a kind of identity policy umbrella are so worrying and offensive. At the same time, it is precisely this that is happening in part of the minister's responsibilities. Furthermore, reference is made to the broadcasting permits for radio and television, which talk of reflecting the whole country. On that mission and that definition, we also agree, but are unlikely to agree on how it should be done and why a certain number of external attributes must be ticked in order to be considered a reflection of the country. Nevertheless, it has been interpreted to a large extent today, notwithstanding the Minister's or my case on the matter. The Minister for Culture points out that gender, age or background are not crucial to our ability to portray another person's reality. In the next paragraph, the Minister replies that the objectives of gender equality and diversity are about choosing competence and including other perspectives. This is where the reasoning is lacking. These criteria are therefore not decisive, but they are a factor in some skills. These very characteristics are thus attributed to importance in the Minister's response and in the government's policy. As long as this policy is applied and seen as a factor, it is, by extension, something that justifies and will be interpreted as justifying discrimination, and this is precisely in breach of the objective of equality and diversity. I mean, the government has to decide which foot to stand on. The fact that the profession is not in ethnicity or gender has recently been emphasised by other film producers and employees at Swedish Radio, for example. The reporter Mårten Arndtzén at SR captures, I mean, the problem in an interview in Dagens Nyheter, where he says: It is an authoritarian idea, because it gives some people a preference for interpretation, regarding specific guard areas. It leads to a view of the journalist as a champion of his identity. And it is a vision that goes completely contrary to impartiality. ..................................................... The general error when this type of problem arises is that one does not let history speak for itself, but with ill-hidden expectation one wants to see a development that does not really value merit and competence. I find that worrying.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-768	Madam President, I would like The excesses are hailing, and I wonder whether this is a question of ignorance or whether it is conscious misinterpretation that the Member of Parliament is engaged in. Who's been arguing what you're saying? What can be seen in the objectives of cultural policy? The MP talks about constructiveness and destructiveness and that the great battle is now in between. I would like to say that it is the Swedish Democrats who represent the destructiveness. You want to destroy the work that has been built up on the gender equality and diversity side. Aron Emilsson says that we have come a long way in these endeavours. It is certainly not because of the Swedish Democrats. Your track record on equality policy is zero and nothing. I think it is destructive when, in other debates, the Swedish Democrats argue in favour of wanting to govern culture for their own ideological purposes, not least in relation to the issue of cultural heritage. You see cultural heritage as an instrument for transforming society as you want it. You have stood here in a debate and admitted that culture should be directed to its content in order to shape the social identity. I would like to oppose this completely, and I will continue to fight it. That is why I and the government have taken several initiatives to strengthen the principle of arm's length distance, both in cultural heritage policy – where the Swedish Democrats always choose to misunderstand it – and in the mission to the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis, which will submit its report next year. I look forward to that result. I want to strengthen the principle of arm's length and freedom of culture. I very much regret that the Swedish Democrats repeatedly, at both local and national level, constantly choose to violate that principle. It is destructiveness for me in the true sense of the word. Sweden's democrats' senselessness and incomprehension for democratic frameworks also appear. Aron Emilsson refers to the Swedish Radio call. The MP Josef Fransson wrote on Twitter that those who have signed this petition are political activists and should be particularly easy to dismiss from their mission. This was immediately officially sanctioned by the party of Aron Emilsson. This shows the anti-democratic reflex of the Swedish Democrats that they always want to fire people who dare to express a different view from that of the Swedish Democrats. It is visible everywhere in the municipalities where the Swedish Democrats have influence: They want to fire people who are not loyal, just as they do in the authoritarian regimes that the Swedish Democrats have as their role model. This is destructiveness for me. I am pleased that Sweden has had a prominent and active gender equality policy for decades. It has paved the way for women MPs, women ministers and female cultural creators in sectors that have been usually and earlier in history reserved for men. That work is important to hold on to, and that work is also important when it comes to the opportunities of boys, young boys, to take up space. In the statistics we now see that reading and writing among boys is going down. I think that is a problem, and I would like to combat that by promoting reading-promoting work specifically aimed at guys. There are many such projects. Gender is no irrelevant factor, Aron Emilsson. It can be a real obstacle, and then it is our responsibility to work to counteract it.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-777	Madam President, I would like With this, I hope that the Minister for Culture will agree with the library and reading initiative that the Swedish Democrats have budgeted for and want to benefit more people. In the 2017 K ulturarvsproposition, the government states that it is important that exhibitions and collections are broadened in order to better correspond to historical diversity and that everyone in our society should be able to find something that is urgent. Here we see the same kind of reasoning. The general mistake you make here is that you don't let history speak for yourself, but that you want to see collections and exhibitions that better reflect our present time. This cannot be consistent with the Minister's reply on arm's length. This also gave rise to the debate on debate museums etc. which took place over more than six months and which is not unknown. In reply to the interpellation, the Minister chooses to ignore the fact that I have stated that identity policy does not give all equal opportunities to participate in and create culture. When you don't reject that skin colour or gender is seen as a factor– you don't say it's crucial, but it's a factor– the follow-up question becomes: How much and within what are these different factors crucial? To attribute little importance to them, however, is to claim that they matter. This may also mean that employers can choose a candidate with a certain skin colour from two otherwise equivalent candidates in a recruitment process. Unlike what the Minister for Culture claims, I do not mean that it is controversial to have goals of equality, equality and diversity – the meaning of it can be discussed – but I question whether they are really being followed by the government's interpretation and its underlying cultural and media institutions. It can rather be argued the opposite and that this behaviour is to some extent accepted and sanctioned by the government. I find that troubling.
i-4d00b072ed53249e-781	Madam President, I would like The Cultural Heritage Bill and the debate on it are a duck that unfortunately continues to live in this House. Aron Emilsson continues to refer to different types of imaginary subtitles and positions. In the Cultural Heritage Policy Bill, the Government argues that cultural heritage is permanent and general and can be a common reference point for all, and that cultural heritage is not fixed and finished. If Aron Emilsson argues otherwise, it is an anti-intellectual and anti-scientific approach. In the Cultural Heritage Bill, we strengthened the distance between politics and independent cultural heritage authorities. That arm should be long, and I will continue to work for it to be. I represent a cultural heritage view that I also share with the scientific community. Madam President, I would like It is very strange to go in and review how recruitment processes are done, not least in independent foundations such as the Film Institute or Swedish Radio, as Aron Emilsson mentions. I note that Mr Emilsson still does not comment on the anti-democratic reflexes sanctioned by the Swedish Democrats following this debate. In a discussion on how to react to each other in a workplace, the Swedish Democrats want to kick those who have expressed a certain opinion. In fact, it is a terrible attitude! I would say that those who engage in identity politics are the Swedish Democrats. You are occupied with origin and identity and sit in judgment over people because they do not look or act as you think they should. Madam President, I would like I am pleased and proud that we have objectives for equality and diversity in cultural policy as well. Then there should be an arm's length distance to the content, but no one has claimed otherwise.
