i-48284ba29cf8b513-2	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to extend the protection of consumers in Sweden with regard to the right of complaint. We use every day goods that we bought from different companies. It is therefore important that there are purchasing rules that provide a high level of consumer protection. A well-functioning market requires a good balance between the interests of consumers and traders. Sweden basically has a high level of consumer protection. Legislation is binding for the benefit of the consumer and unfair terms are not allowed. However, it is not me but the General Complaints Board and the courts that are dealing with disputes between the parties. In recent years, work has been under way in the EU to develop new rules in the field of consumer law. The government has worked in the negotiations to strengthen consumer protection. The work resulted last year in two new EU directives that represent a success for Swedish positions. The time the seller has the burden of proof of the errors incurred doubles from six months to one year. Furthermore, there are rules on the obligations of the seller once an error has been identified for which the seller is responsible. The consumer has the right, in the first instance, to have the defect rectified free of charge or to receive a new product. A recent study presented proposals on how to implement the Directives in Sweden. The study proposes a completely new consumer protection law. The law shall lay down rules on what is wrong and what rights the consumer has when wrong occurs. It is also proposed to extend the time that the seller has the burden of proof of the errors that have occurred. In addition, the proposal contains rules that also create consumer protection for the purchase of digital products and services. The report is now being consulted. The Swedish legislation implementing the directives must be in place by 1 July next year.
i-VZjboXZfh97HwHxmrGR7aE	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Morgan Johansson, for your answer! My question is based on a real case and how complaints are actually handled by one of Sweden's leading chains in consumer electronics. The seller has set out specific conditions for the use of a complaint, which obliges you to use their specially appointed repairer – which also collects an usury price compared to other local operators. What Morgan Johansson has said is interesting and true. As a party spokesperson in consumer law, I have followed the investigation and read the proposals with great interest. But, Madam President, what is being proposed will in no way affect the outcome of a similar review after 1 July next year, when the law comes into force. As long as this type of arrangement is allowed when you have bought a dryer, a washing machine or anything else that you might expect to last at least five six years, maybe ten, it is no protection that we raise from six to twelve months with the reverse burden of proof. In principle, the 13th month has no protection when it allows the seller to appoint the repairman, who, moreover, takes a huge amount of money, and then it is the manufacturer of the goods who determines whether the damage is original or not. The judge is as independent as the Social Insurance Agency's doctor in that case. The General Complaints Board also says that you should first turn to the seller, and the seller says you have to do this. You don't really have the opportunity to go around the setup in any way. As the company writes in its own complaint form, please note that claims for the purpose of replacing the white product can only be made subsequent examination and possible repair of the Cylinda Service. A visit from our technician costs from SEK 1,414. ..................................................... I find it difficult to see that it is compatible with a good balance when you are not allowed to let someone else look at the product at all until it is repaired. And once the product has been repaired by a service technician belonging to the company that manufactured the product, there is no evidence anymore. Then you can no longer take in a third party to look at this and say that this particular injury or error was due to the fact that the machine was originally built too badly, or something like that. Then you have repaired the product, and then it works. That is why I would like to see a more differentiated right of complaint, especially in the case of goods with a long expected sustainability. If we're talking about goods that will last ten years, the reversal of the burden of proof should be a little longer than twelve months. I wonder how the government sees this. Why has it not been chosen to look at a differentiated right of complaint? Is it hoped that there will be some form of self-regulation, or why do you choose to abstain? It may be a mess if we are to have different rules, but to have the same rules for, for example, an ink pen that for a dryer feels very strange to me.
i-48284ba29cf8b513-15	Madam President, I would like I can begin by regretting that Mikael Eskilandersson has had problems with his dryer. That's what we're talking about here. This is Mikael Eskilandersson own case in the General Complaints Board. He received information from the General Complaints Board in August and wrote his interpellation a few weeks later, in September. It is an innovative use of parliament's power of control, may I say. I cannot go into Mikael Eskilandersson's individual case of whether or not to pay SEK 1,414 for the repair of his dryer. He's been informed of that by the General Complaints Board, so I think he'll have to. Who will repair his dryer is evident from the terms of the contract he entered into when he bought the dryer. However, the question he is actually asking is broader than that. The question is how we can strengthen consumers' rights in relation to complaints. That is also the question I am answering. That is precisely why I am pointing out what we are now about to do, that is to say, change the time when the burden of proof passes. Today, the reversal of the burden of proof applies to the first six months of original errors. This means that if a product breaks down during these six months, it is the seller who will show that the defect did not exist from the beginning. After six months, the burden of proof passes to the buyer. Then it is the buyer who should show that the fault existed from the beginning. I think it is quite a reasonable rule that the burden of proof should be passed at a certain time. The question then is at what point, and today it is at six months. Now, as I say in the interpellation response, there is an EU directive in which Sweden has pushed for strengthened rules on consumer rights. The proposal in the EU directive is that the time is now extended from six months to one year – that is, that it should at least double, as it says in the directive. That is also the meaning of the investigation that I received a few months ago and which is now being consulted. We have not put our foot down in all the details yet, because, as I said, it is out for consultation, but because the European directive says it should be at least a year, that is also what it will be. There will thus be at least a doubling of the time before the burden of proof will shift from the seller to the buyer. So the answer to Mikael Eskilandersson's question is: Yes, we will strengthen the consumer's rights in complaints. That's the question I'm answering in the interpellation. Otherwise, I hope that Mikael Eskilandersson's dryer now works properly.
i-48284ba29cf8b513-21	Madam President, I would like It is true that the origin of this was to some extent that the dryer I have in my home broke down. I thought you had much better protection in Sweden than you have, and it was only when the dryer broke that I understood what a hugely poor protection you have as a consumer. In fact, I thought that the three years of the Consumer Sales Law were something that could be used. It was only when I was affected that it became apparent that these three years are completely useless. There is no value at all in having a consumer purchasing law that says that an original error is an original error for three years if you can prove it if you do not actually get the opportunity to prove it. The arrangement that the Elgigant, as it is about in this case, had meant that you can never, as a consumer, prove that the fault is original – for how can you do it when the product is already repaired? I still wonder how Morgan Johansson views this issue of differentiating the right of complaint. Why not do so in more cases? In fact, one thing has been done, and it is building parts. If a building part is an essential part, it suddenly has a two-year reversal of the burden of proof, but everything else today has six months and will be raised to twelve months, as I understand what Morgan Johansson has said here. After all, regardless of whether you raise from six months to twelve months, we have all the goods at home that are expected to last significantly longer than twelve months, such as a dryer or a car that has only twelve months' protection unless the seller wants to provide longer protection by some form of guarantee or so. There are many examples on the market where the seller actually provides longer guarantees. I know Electrolux Home already gives five years of warranty today on its appliances. However, there are still many sellers who apparently feel that they can use the 12-month limit and then make an arrangement that in practice makes it impossible for the consumer to complain after the 12-month limit. I don't think that's what the law was supposed to be like. I do not think that the idea was to be able to make arrangements that allow the consumer to never let anyone independently look at a defect in a white product. That is what is happening in practice. The General Complaints Board says: You have to use this repairman, and only after repairing the product will we make an assessment as to whether it is a complaint or not. In that case, the whole possibility for the consumer to prove something has been removed. Morgan Johansson mentioned in his introduction here that he wants a good balance. I wonder whether it is really compatible with a good balance that consumers are being removed from the possibility of making complaints in the way they are doing on the market today. Then, basically, it's about an individual case that's about what happened to me-- yes, that's it, but it's thousands of other people who get into exactly the same thing every year. So it is not a unique case in any way. I can very well use that as an example here in the Swedish Parliament. I do not see the problem with it because I still have transparency in that case. I could pick out 10, 20 or 100 other cases where exactly the same thing has happened, because Elgiganten is a pretty big company when it comes to selling white goods.
i-48284ba29cf8b513-29	Madam President, I would like As I said, I cannot go into individual cases, for example when it comes to who is going to do the repair at Mikael Eskilandersson's dryer. In addition, it was clear from the initial conditions, not least when he accepted the repair itself, what it was like. Then there is no legal obstacle to bring in someone else, but then one must pursue a dispute after that against the buyer or seller we are talking about. In any case, this particular matter may not be a parliamentary matter. On the other hand, legislation and what it looks like is a parliamentary issue. It is based on a balance, after all, between consumers and sellers. I dare to say that Sweden has strong consumer rights internationally, and those rights will be further strengthened when the time is extended from six months to at least one year, as stated in the EU directive. This means that the burden of proof will not be passed on to the buyer for at least one year. This is a reasonable assessment. We are talking here about errors that should be original, that is, that they should have existed when the product itself was sold to one. Then one must assume that this type of original error in most cases appears within a year of buying the product. There may, of course, be exceptions, and then you have to try it, but there must be some kind of holding mark in the legislation on what should apply in general. As I said, we generally have a high level of consumer protection in Sweden. We will strengthen it further as we move forward with legislation to meet the new requirements of the European directive.
i-48284ba29cf8b513-33	Madam President, I would like Today, there is a major lack of protection for consumers who, unfortunately, are not being remedied by the forthcoming legislation. It is unreasonable that legal protection is as low as a year for goods that are expected to have a shelf life of perhaps ten years or more. The fact that companies go ahead and voluntarily take on a longer warranty period is of course pleasing but not enough as long as it is not a standard. For me, it is obvious that, for example, a hair dryer or a pair of headphones are not expected to last as long as a lawn mower or a washing machine. It is therefore reasonable that products with a longer life expectancy also have a longer right of complaint and that the reversed burden of proof follows the percentage of the claim period. Therefore, I think that the possibilities for a differentiated right of complaint need to be reviewed so that the time limit for complaints is longer for expensive investments made by consumers. This would also increase incentives for manufacturers to actually start focusing on more sustainable goods, which is good both for the consumer and for the environment. The twelve months' right of complaint now mentioned is a start, but it is not enough. I would therefore like to call on the government to actually look at this with differentiated claims right in the future.
i-48284ba29cf8b513-37	Madam President, I would like With regard to these rules, as I said, it is a balance between the interests of the consumer and the seller. Then you have to land in such a way that you take advantage of that balance and not just go in one direction. It is clear that extending this period to two years or even longer will have very strong consequences, and the consumer could therefore say after a very long time that this error is not due to wear and tear because I have used the product, but because it was already there when I bought the product. This has a major impact on the business sector that sells the goods. This balance must, therefore, be maintained. In the negotiations on the European directive, we have pushed for stronger consumer law. One result of this is that we now have a European directive that says that, as a minimum, it should be one year before the burden of proof passes. It is the result of the negotiating work that we have done. That is also what will become legislation both in Sweden and in the rest of the EU. I mean, that's a success. In this way, consumer rights are further strengthened. If you are going to go further, you have to be prepared that it may have a strong negative impact on the business community. That should also be taken into account when discussing this issue. As I said, we have not yet set our foot on how far you can go – there is a span for how far you can go in the EU directive – but we will do so after the consultation bodies have said their thing. We will have new legislation that will strengthen consumers' rights on the ground by mid-year next year.
