i-df5656da991934ba-0	Madam President, I would like Last Thursday we met again in the circle of EU Heads of State or Government over a video link to discuss the management of the Corona crisis. The Corona epidemic has struck the whole of Europe. Some countries are worse at risk than others, but on the other hand we have not seen the end yet. Our economies are hard hit, and forecasts point to declines of historical dimensions. During the crisis, cooperation and solidarity in the EU have been tested. There has been a shortage of protective equipment and medical equipment in many places, which has made it more difficult to redistribute and assist each other. Madam President, I would like A well-functioning EU is crucial for the Swedish economy, for our jobs and for our well-being. With a coherent and capable Europe, we can fight climate change more effectively and be a strong voice for democracy and equality internationally. That is why the government has been working to ensure that the internal market also works during the crisis. We have pushed for our joint preparation within the EU to return, where the situation allows, to normal functioning economies. The EU has already taken steps to support the Member States financially and to make the economic wheels spin again. For example, on 9 April, finance ministers were able to agree on a historic emergency package of measures aimed at businesses, wage earners and also countries. The equivalent of nearly SEK 6 000 billion is spent, not least to support the countries most affected. These are unprecedented measures. Finance ministers also agreed to work on a recovery fund but wanted to receive further guidance from the Heads of State or Government. It was therefore essentially that question that was discussed at our meeting on Thursday. The meeting was preceded by a lively, in many parts public, discussion of the Recovery Fund. Some argue that the basis should be a common debt, in which Member States fully guarantee each other's debts. They also want the fund to provide grants instead of loans. Others share our view and strongly oppose such joint indebtedness and want the fund to be based on loans and not grants. The meeting did not adopt common conclusions, but the Member States largely reiterated already known positions. Instead, in order to move forward, we agreed that the Commission should now first and foremost identify the actual needs, both geographically and sector-by-sector, and then shortly come up with a concrete proposal. Together with our like-minded countries, namely Denmark, Austria and the Netherlands, I made the demands we made on this fund. It should be limited in both time and scope, it should be loans and not grants and it should meet high demands for efficiency and repayment from borrowers. I and many others also stressed the importance of building on and respecting the internal market. That is the key to the functioning of our economies. No rescue packages or funds in the world can replace the free flow of goods and services in the EU. Madam President, I would like As I said, the Commission will now come up with a proposal to be presented on 6 May. On the same day, a revised proposal for a long-term budget will also be presented. We also agreed that the crisis package of finance ministers, as I mentioned earlier, will be implemented by 1 June. Finally, we supported the strategy for lifting national restrictions and the road map for recovery that has been presented in the past. The meeting also informed the Croatian Presidency that the informal summit with the countries of the Western Balkans will take place as planned on 6 May. Even that meeting will be via video link. Madam President, I would like It is important that the EU is united in dealing with the crisis and, of course, in helping the worst affected countries. Sweden will continue to play its part in contributing to cohesion within the EU. In order to emerge from the crisis and to strengthen EU cooperation in the long term, the government will push for the smooth functioning of the internal market and further develop, for the development of the EU crisis management system so that we can cope better with future crises and for the EU's voice in the world to be strengthened. We're stronger together. A Europe that works, as I said, was absolutely crucial for the Swedish economy, for jobs, for well-being, but also for security and the climate. That concludes the report from Thursday's meeting.
i-df5656da991934ba-12	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. After all, we are still in the midst of the pandemic and can only see what the effects of the crisis will be. First of all, it is still a question of stopping the spread of course. Unfortunately, we have seen in this crisis that many countries have not reacted as soundly as we think they should. Ten countries within the EU still have barriers to trade, and that is totally unacceptable. We have also seen worrying developments in several countries. I am thinking of Hungary and Poland, which do not respect our fundamental values. It was not for nothing that I, the chairman of the EU Board, Åsa Westlund, and also the first vice-chairman, Annika Qarlsson, at the open meeting last week used words that provoked and directly offensive. I understand that this European Council was largely about economic issues. However, we must not forget to react and act against trade barriers and against those countries which take the opportunity not to respect the principles of the rule of law. Having said that, it still sounds like this meeting was rather quiet. But let us be honest that the next meetings may not be as calm. Much of what was reported was around the Recovery Fund. I sincerely hope that it will have an impact, but one can be concerned that this will not happen. The EU is important for the Swedish economy. We depend on Europe and that it works, and it is good that we have a common plan. But we must also remember that Sweden has been saving in the barns to cope with such crises, and not everyone else has. Now the Prime Minister said it was about taking further guidance as he listened to what the other heads of state said. But I wonder what the assessment is from Sweden. Will the recovery fund also benefit Sweden or will it be bad? Then there is a lot of talk about how big it is and how much money it is about, but what is Sweden's line when it comes to what it will contain?
i-df5656da991934ba-19	Madam President, I would like First of all, I share the view that what we are all working on is how to prevent the infection as much as possible, but it must not mean the barriers to trade that we have seen and must not mean violations of values. These are issues where Sweden is on all the time. We are probably one of the most active countries to remove barriers to trade. As mentioned, there are about ten of them that still have barriers to trade. We have succeeded bilaterally, not least in terms of transport from Germany and France, but these are isolated cases. We need to do more to ensure that the internal market works. As I said in the report, that is where the focus is on our cooperation, not on individual packages. Similarly, as far as values are concerned, Sweden fully supports the Commission in the studies carried out and in the positions that the EU should actually stand for. The way in which countries act sometimes has to be pointed out, and there has to be a limit. This also applies to the debate on the future long-term budget. We have put forward the line from the outset that it is also a question of standing up for Europe's values. If we are to receive EU support, we must stand up for our values. As far as the recovery fund is concerned, I share the view that this is where the difficult thing starts. Now no conclusions were adopted, but as I said in the re-report, many people believe that this should be grants, not loans. We mean exactly the opposite. As has been said, the demands we have made are that the fund must be limited in time and scope and, of course, accessible to everyone. Then it is also good if no countries in the EU have major economic problems, because it would also affect Sweden.
i-df5656da991934ba-24	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. Churchill said: Never waste a good crisis. Let us hope that it will be. The Prime Minister mentioned the long-term budget, and I hope that this will lead to a modern budget and hopefully also a deeper internal market – I may not be too hopeful, but I hope so. At the open meeting last week, I highlighted the strategy of lifting restrictions on covid-19, and so did the Prime Minister just now. I also mentioned the importance that we have a joint mission to collect data and increase the number of tests. Here is Sweden, as I also said then, the worst in the Nordic countries. Now the Prime Minister said there was support for the road folder, but how did the discussion go? And what did Sweden say about us also taking our responsibility and increasing the number of tests? We need to do that in order to release the restrictions and have a plan for it.
i-df5656da991934ba-28	Madam President, I would like Firstly, with regard to the MFF discussion, we are pushing for a more modern budget. Now, however, we have a whole new narrative with the crisis, and there will probably be a renewed discussion about it. However, we stand by exactly the order we have. When it comes to lifting the restrictions around covid-19, the road folder is based on, among other things: it should be based on the epidemiological perspective, and it should be done in a coordinated manner. It also means looking at what health care resources can actually do when lifting these kinds of restrictions. It also includes the testing, and that is why we have this mission on the authority: to make sure that the tests increase gradually so that we get up to a substantial volume. Of course we'll do our part.
i-df5656da991934ba-30	Madam President, I would like During this crisis, the Prime Minister has often, quite rightly, pointed out that other Member States do not comply with the Union's rules. I would like to ask a brief question about this from a slightly broader perspective. Article 123 of the Treaty, the so-called no bailout rule, states that the Union shall never take over debt from Member States and Article 125 that the European Central Bank shall not buy bonds from them. However, during the 2008 financial crisis, it decided to ignore these rules and jointly raised thousands of billions of dollars to help Greece, among other things. Article 126 regulates what is called the excessive deficit procedure, which shall prevent euro area countries from receiving excessive deficits and public debt. The rules have never been used against any country, even though a number of states systematically contradict them. Article 8 of the Schengen Code requires Member States to check who crosses the external border and Article 9 of the Eurodac Regulation that they take fingerprints of asylum seekers. During the migration crisis in 2015, several countries chose to ignore this. Article 2 of the Procedural Regulation states that Member States must allow asylum seekers to cross the external border. When the effects of this obviously completely insane rule became impossible to deny, the Union recently gave its silent consent to Greece to ignore the rule. Article 28 of the Treaty provides for the free movement of goods. Recently, however, a number of countries have chosen to ignore it because they do not want to share health equipment. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore this: the prevailing political culture in the EU is such that rules are considered optional. So this is nothing new. Culture has been built up by the parties that have and have been in power, that is, the Social Democrats and the European People's Party. In view of this, does the Prime Minister think that his party and his group could have done more to counteract this culture in the past?
i-df5656da991934ba-36	Madam President, I would like Now this was not up for discussion. I have a re-report from the last meeting of the Heads of Government and of State of the European Union. As far as common debt is concerned, we are pushing the line that there should be no common debt. That's the wrong incentive. That is against the Treaty, we believe. It deprives the national parliaments of their decision-making power and competence, and we shall not do so. Neither joint bonds nor joint debt is relevant to us. I also think that is what most people now see: there will be no such mechanism. The resistance is too great. That discussion will probably be about whether it should be loans or contributions from the Recovery Fund. I believe that the great discussion of principle will end up there, and it will be difficult enough. That is why we are building close cooperation with Austria, the Netherlands and Denmark in the first place. We will want to broaden that group in order for more people to support the line that it is primarily loans and not grants we are going to give from the fund and that they must be able to benefit everyone. But we also need to see this, as I said earlier, not just as a fund to help others. If we ensure that we have an economically stable Europe, Sweden will also come out of it well. Sweden would lose a huge amount of money by having an unstable Europe where some countries get caught in a lot of trouble. We should remember that about 70% of our exports go to this market. We're totally dependent on it. This is a mixture, a balance between help and self-help, with the restrictions we have imposed. That is what we intend to continue to pursue.
i-df5656da991934ba-41	Madam President, I would like I fully agree that common debt is in breach of the Treaty. However, it has not stopped the Union before. That was the point of my first post. As far as the fund is concerned, Mr von der Leyen has apparently said something like this: it should consist of a sound balance between grants and loans. This is something that we think should be out of the question. If there's gonna be any money, there's gonna be loans. These should be strict conditions, and they should be repaid at some point in time. Since the budget and the fund are apparently to be adopted in a sjok, it probably means that the Prime Minister should have a veto against this. I may be wrong, but we haven't got all the information. Can the Prime Minister guarantee here and now that, if he is given the opportunity to veto, he will stop a proposal which means that a small country like Sweden will pay subsidies to larger countries such as Italy and Spain?
i-df5656da991934ba-44	Madam President, I would like We have now given the Commission the task of first drawing up an inventory and an analysis of the needs, both sectorally and geographically, and what that would justify for proposals. So we are not even close to getting a proposal. But, as I have said before, what we are constantly running together with like-minded people – and that circle we want to expand – is that we should not have joint debt and that what is given from the fund should be loans and not grants.
i-df5656da991934ba-45	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister Löfven, for the presentation! The conflict that we now see taking place in the European Council reflects the conflict that existed in the Eurogroup before it ended up in all EU countries. It is basically about the possibility of issuing corona bonds or raising joint debt. It is also about the possibility of making direct contributions. I and the Left Party believe that this discussion primarily belongs to the countries of the euro area. It is no wonder that an area of common currency and monetary policy has a common borrowing and that economic integration is being pursued. But the Swedish people have chosen to abstain from the single currency in a referendum. There should be a clear limit. On the other hand, I think that the European Union can do much more, and perhaps the main instrument for it in addition to the budget is the European Investment Bank, which has a lot of muscle and the opportunity to bring forward projects, launch major climate investments and provide favourable conditions for both companies and Member States to emerge from the crisis. There I think that Sweden should be active and advocate a very expansionary policy. The possibilities for extending the budgetary framework are limited. In the future, virtually all Member States, not least Sweden, will have less money to spend in addition to what is being given today to the EU. I think it is important that the Prime Minister has a very clear dialogue with the Riksdag before making any commitments whatsoever, for example on the basis of the Swedish state budget, to increase expenditure within the framework of various programmes. However, my question concerns developments in Hungary. While the Corona crisis has deepened, Orbán has taken the opportunity to steal even more power in Hungary. Today, Hungary is classified according to some studies as a non-democracy. My question to the Prime Minister is: can we tolerate this development in Hungary continuing without it having to leave the European Union in the long term?
i-df5656da991934ba-52	Madam President, I would like The conflict in debt is primarily in the euro group, that is the case. However, the second major and fundamental issue will now be loans or contributions from the Recovery Fund. That is what we have to wait, and that is why the difficult discussions remain. As far as the EIB is concerned, we have agreed, with the approval of Parliament, to be part of the package presented by finance ministers in the inclusive euro group, that is, including those who do not have the euro as their currency. Sweden is part of this and provides a guarantee, as we do when it comes to short-term lay-off. There we are. I think that is a good thing, because the EIB has a great deal to contribute. As far as the budget is concerned, we stand by the same view. We can't just now automatically increase it. All Member States will have huge commitments, and it also turns out when you count it together that there are huge sums of money for the Member States now, and we will then also do something together in Europe. As I said, we fully support the Commission in its work on Hungary. It is a question of standing up for those values, and I am not going to speculate on whether a country should or cannot be involved. But there must be a limit, in my opinion. You can't behave in any way in a congregation without standing up for the rules. I don't want to go further than that in speculation.
i-df5656da991934ba-56	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. Yes, there must be a limit to what Hungary is doing. The problem is that Hungary is constantly moving that border in the wrong direction and that the European Union has not so far chosen to push hard with any greater emphasis. This affects us in many ways. On the one hand, it affects how the EU works, and on the other hand it means that Hungarian ministers sit and make laws that apply in Sweden. They have the right to vote in the Council of Ministers and make laws that apply here. If this were to be the case as the report by political scientists shows that Hungary can no longer be seen as a democracy, it is probably a major problem. If a country that we do not really see as a democracy makes laws that apply in our country, that is a problem. That is what the Council of Ministers of the European Union is doing. Somewhere there goes the limit of when it is not possible to share decision-making power anymore. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister think that Hungary is a democracy?
i-df5656da991934ba-60	Madam President, I would like As far as Hungary is concerned, we have been very clear about the possibility of drawing the line in the forthcoming MFF. In fact, if you are to receive support from the common European Union, you also have to live up to the values that we stand for. That's the limit. Sitting in the Council of Ministers does not automatically mean that each country's ministers, individual ministers, are in charge of others, but when you make decisions together. That is what will determine. But not for nothing, it is definitely a concern if countries act in a direction that does not stand up for our values, so it is. Again, I will not go further than that in my speculation. However, there must be limits to what a nation can do if it is to be part of an association.
i-df5656da991934ba-63	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. While no formal decisions were taken at the Council meeting, the EU Commission was given the task of returning to the re-debated Recovery Fund. It should be coordinated with the long-term budget, and it seems absolutely necessary and sensible. I also think it is good that the Prime Minister has made it clear that the recovery fund should be financed through loans and not grants, as well as that the size of the fund should be held back, that it should be limited in time and that it should meet high demands for efficiency and repayment. We support this line from the Christian Democrats. In a very short time, the EU has decided on several different packages covering several hundred billion euros. It is, of course, important that we have good control systems for this. We are concerned, for example, that the issue of short-term lay-offs and something similar to an a-cassage system should come at European level. I hope the Prime Minister shares the view that this should not be permanent. My question to the Prime Minister is what he now thinks is most important for Sweden when it comes to the recovery fund. What is Sweden's strategy to keep the size of the fund down? Just as we in Sweden are at risk of abuse of government efforts, so can the EU. What control functions does the Prime Minister think need to be developed in this area to combat fraud and abuse of the various crisis packages?
i-df5656da991934ba-67	Madam President, I would like There was no concrete decision on the fund. We took a decision to launch the Finance Ministers' plan from earlier in April – the EUR 540 billion. It is quite correct that there are enormous sums of money now. I cannot vouch for it, but the Commission has made an estimate that we are now up to EUR 3 000 billion in total in terms of Member States and the common. That's a terrible amount of money. It's hard to understand how much it is-- there's a lot of zeros. As far as the recovery fund is concerned, our starting point is that it must be limited in scope and also in time. We have not set an exact amount. From EUR 500 billion to EUR 1 500 billion has been mentioned, so there are large sums of money in circulation. We believe that we should keep it down, and we should also look at the whole thing what is actually done. Sometimes it sounds like nothing's done, but it's very much done. We need to do more, but of course we have to hold back. What we're doing is talking to as many people as possible. We have one group, the now perhaps famous F4 group, the wifely four, but in addition to that there are others. After all, all Member States have their own commitments and chords to make. Of course, we are talking to as many people as possible. As far as control is concerned, there must be effectiveness, and that is why we are expressing what we are doing. What is to be done in place must be correct, but it should also be used correctly and, of course, presented in some good way. That's where we started, and then we'll have to take it from there and develop it as we go.
i-df5656da991934ba-71	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. It would be interesting to hear a little about whether it is new institutions or the usual institutions for control functions in the EU that should be used. Maybe we can get back to that. As far as the long-term budget is concerned, we have agreed that it has also been too extensive. At the same time, it is important that it may be done differently. You might need to reprioritize it. That's reasonable. When it is said that it is to be revised, I wonder how the Prime Minister believes that the long-term budget needs to be changed. Will the Prime Minister continue to push for a budget-restrictive line in line with 1% of EU countries' GDP?
i-df5656da991934ba-75	Madam President, I would like In the case of new institutions or not, one of the proposals proposed by the Commission is to deal with it via structures that already exist, for example for the long-term budget. There are already mechanisms, regulations and infrastructure in place. In doing so, however, one must be careful that it will not just be about the budget. Then you can easily end up with only subsidies. That balance must be kept. We want to maintain that there should be loans and not grants. With regard to the budget as such, we need to look at what reprioritization needs to be done on the basis that we actually have a new narrative. All Member States do. One possible variant is to have one that is larger earlier and less later in time. It's a variant. But also distribution between different posts can be done, based on the situation we are actually in.
i-MAdkwS7kKNLnWqFAVxkcU3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for reporting back! There are new crises all the time. There have been financial crises, Greek crises, mortgage crises and migration crises. And now we have this pandemic. In the European Union, this means that the Heads of State or Government and the Commission have to deal with this crisis in different ways. New types of mechanisms, institutions and so on are being created. One might imagine that this is what is happening now with this fund. Then, as a liberal and a supporter of a market economy, I think it is important that countries such as Sweden should be very clear, including with loans and not grants being the principle and with such a fund being fixed in time so that it does not become liquid and lives on for a long time. Madam President, I would like It is also important to see that there are countries that can use the pandemic to implement draconian restrictions and give governments and Heads of State closest to dictatorial powers. We have seen this in Hungary. The question is whether it can be financed from this fund. It will be very remarkable if the European Union is to build a large support fund and if it is then to pay out money to a Member State that, under the protection of this, is developing into a dictatorship. I would like an answer from the Prime Minister as to whether that can happen. Liberals also believe that it must be clear that those countries that have introduced barriers to trade must now remove them. It should also be conditional on receiving payments in the future.
i-df5656da991934ba-82	Madam President, I would like With regard to crises and possible regular new institutions, the Commission's approach to the recovery fund is to manage within existing structures. Then we can also get started faster because regulations, mechanisms and all that is already in place. However, as I said in the last speech, if we deal with it only within the budget, we must be careful not to place the emphasis on subsidies rather than loans. Our focus is, as Fredrik Malm says, that it should be loans, fixed-term and limited in different ways. We also see that there are forces that want to use the pandemic to achieve something other than what is in line with the EU's values. Of course this money isn't for that. The Commission has now been asked to produce an overview of the need, both geographically and sectorally, based on how different sectors have been affected and what the need for support may be. That is why we have also expressed the demand for efficiency in this fund. This includes not violating the values of the Union. The closer the regulatory framework needs to be developed. Now it's just inventory. The Commission shall then make a proposal. Then we must keep an eye on this, so that it becomes a fund that is actually useful. We should, once again, remember that it is important for Europe to function economically but also in terms of value.
i-df5656da991934ba-87	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. For example, the question of whether Hungary's development will be even more delicate if the recovery fund is to be jacketed into the regular structures of the EU. The risk is that you get a longer perspective and that it is not just a short thing to deal with the very crisis that we are in now. If I am not wrong, now more than one in three Member States have imposed restrictions on free movement in the European Union. These are barriers to trade. No fund in the world will be able to parry that trade flows decrease so much. These tools must be used to pressure those countries to roll back the restrictions on free trade that they have made.
i-df5656da991934ba-90	Madam President, I would like I fully share that view. I also think I said at the outset that no funds or packages in the world can weigh up for what is at the heart of this, to be able to have free flow of goods and services, people and capital. It is the very essence, and it must work. If it doesn't, we'll probably have to decide on a lot of packages for it to be weighed up. That is our point and the essence of our reasoning. That is also why we are talking about temporary solutions. We're going back to having an internal market. However, some countries may have legal restrictions on their exports – I cannot always vouch for that. But what does not work and is not in accordance with statutes, laws and rules must be removed.
i-df5656da991934ba-92	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. Above all, I would like to support the line that the Prime Minister represents. It's not an easy balance we're going to walk here. It is important for Sweden to safeguard European cooperation, which is under severe pressure as a result of this crisis. It is important to safeguard the democratic influence of our continent. It is important for us to have a strong economy together. It is also important for us to meet the climate and environmental challenges we face together. At the same time, the big solution cannot be that countries such as Sweden, which have taken a fairly high tax rate from their residents, handled money carefully and managed with them now should shovel them off to countries that may have much lower tax rates and much worse anticipation. I believe that this would be a dangerous path and, in the long term, also unsolidaric towards the employees who have contributed to the Swedish treasury. Therefore, as the Prime Minister says, it is important to focus on what we can do together to get out of this, that is, on what we should do and not just deal with it as if it were about shoveling around money. Because it doesn't. It is, as many previous speakers have said, about opening up the internal market and finding ways in which we can cope with future crises better in the future. It is also about having joint preparedness and cooperating on a vaccine. It is also, of course, about the recovery plan not aiming to take us back but to strengthen us for the future by taking a leap in climate change and digitalisation, so that we become more competitive together. In this work, a recovery plan can hopefully play an important role.
i-df5656da991934ba-98	Madam President, I would like Of course, I share the view that cooperation is the important thing. Economic cooperation is the very basis. Sweden is getting a lot out of this cooperation. But what Åsa Westlund points out is also important; it concerns democracy, climate and such issues. I also share the view that the climate issue must be at the centre of attention. I am glad that Mrs von der Leyen is clear about holding the Green Deal. It has become no less important that this crisis has come but is of exactly the same importance. I have said this before: that is where the technology of the future, the jobs of the future and the well-being of the future lie. We will also be able to tell our children that we understood what happened. That's right. I think it is right to take the approach that we should not go back to what was, but to go on and on. It's supposed to be offensive. This will also be good for the citizens of Sweden. There is a discussion about different tax rates and, for that matter, also different pension ages. Some countries have significantly fewer people who are about 60 years old and are in work. These differences are something we point out. It may be a choice that has been made, but it does not automatically mean getting support from other countries. You've made your choice. At the same time, there is a balance here. Nor is this digital, but it also differs among the southern countries. For example, Portugal was, for the first time since the introduction of democracy, about to present a budget that was in balance – for the first time! But then came the Corona crisis and it won't be like that. It can be understood that there is, of course, frustration there too. However, we point this out, because these factors need to be taken into account when comparing countries and how to provide support.
i-df5656da991934ba-103	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. There is an important dimension to carry beyond what we have already been into today. It is about what happens if the countries of the European Union do not stand up for each other. It could be. We in the EU Council had the opportunity to meet Greek representatives long before the Covid-19 crisis broke out. Even then, their representatives said: unless you and other parts of Europe can provide us with loans, there are other players in the world who are prepared to do so, not least China. How would it benefit Swedish interests if such powers now took the opportunity to strengthen their positions? This is important to have with you. I would also like to emphasise that Sweden must continue to stand up for the principles of the rule of law, including in the case of Hungary.
i-df5656da991934ba-105	Madam President, I would like The last thing I can agree with right away. The principles of the rule of law must apply. This was an important perspective: what if it doesn't work and if it falls? We must take this into account. However, it has not been said that it is okay that as a Member State you can behave as you please. It's not. However, if we do not have the EU as a platform, Sweden will be significantly weakened in the global economy. There are strong interests which, of course, would like to see a seriously weakened Europe, because there are other forces in the global economy that would then take on themselves. It could have many different effects. It can have both economic and other effects, such as security policy effects. It is important to include this in the reasoning, and it makes it a not entirely easy balancing process. But we have to do it too.
i-df5656da991934ba-108	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your report. We are still living in uncertain times. The Coronandem continues, and we do not know when the turnaround will come. Efforts to limit the spread of infection continue as well as to make efforts for health care, workers and businesses. At this point, it is important for the EU to stick together and show solidarity. It has not worked perfectly, but great efforts have been made. As the Prime Minister said, the Finance Ministers have agreed on a very large crisis package, up to EUR 540 billion. We are talking about a huge sum. It is about lifelines for health care, employees and companies. With the recovery fund now under discussion, the amount will be even greater, even if we do not know how large. Mrs von der Leyen has said that it may be in the order of trillions. I am following up on what I mentioned in the European Council before the summit. I stressed then that it is extremely important that recovery funds go to a green transition – green reconstruction – to climate and a circular economy. Our young people can no longer strike climate in streets and squares. But Greta Thunberg continues to lead the climate strike remotely and digitally. It is historic to invest as much money as is available in the Recovery Fund. We have a historic choice to make. Then we cannot drive in old tracks, as Åsa Westlund also mentioned, but we need to take the opportunity now to move forward by investing in a both fair and climate-smart society. At a meeting of the EU Council, the Prime Minister mentioned that the majority of countries are in the same line. But there have been worrying moves in the past. I would therefore like to ask a question about this. Do the Member States clearly agree to press for a climate and green reconstruction focus right now?
i-df5656da991934ba-113	Madam President, I would like I share the view that solidarity and cooperation have not worked 100%. Thankfully, though, we have been able to correct and correct things. It's still not 100%. We have to be on it for it to be, because it matters so much. As far as the recovery fund is concerned, and also the total, the IMF has clearly stated that it must not be too late. This has to come in early and be enough. I think the sums that I have mentioned during the re-reporting are substantial. Again, I share the view of a green transition. This must be at the heart of this. The change that we are about to make is ahead of us. It will also offer great opportunities. It is about investments in the energy sector, in the transport sector, in industry and many other sectors. There we will invest properly and make sure that we bring down emissions substantially so that one day we have net zero emissions. Some Member States still raise doubts about a green deal. They say that instead we should take a break, for someone for me inscrutable reason. There is no time for a break, nor is there a need. So the discussion is not finished in this respect, in so far as everyone has stood up and said, yes, we are going to go further, but we will probably have to wear on here for a while longer.
i-df5656da991934ba-117	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for Sweden being a clear voice for the green transition in Europe! In my previous speech, I mentioned that these are large sums of money for the recovery fund. The countries do not agree on the size or the actions involved, whether they are direct aid or loans. It is still a little unclear how the long-term budget should react to this. It is important that Sweden adheres to its restrictive and responsible stance that it should be loans before direct grants and that the money is used responsibly. It is also very important to set clear conditions for this money. There must be transparent follow-up of funds with clear conditions. It should not be empty money, but real money for climate and green reconstruction. Several have also mentioned democracy. It is incredibly important that money does not go to countries that round up democracy in these difficult times.
i-df5656da991934ba-120	Madam President, I would like We will continue to discuss the size of the recovery fund. As I said earlier about loans or grants, we believe that loans must be the right thing to do. The connection to MFF can be seen in different ways. The four of us believe that it is important to keep them separate. They can operate together, but you have to know what one and the other is. And one must definitely know the commitment of each Member State in both parts. It is therefore not possible to simply confuse them because then you get a sum that will be difficult to keep track of. They must be kept apart. However, they can work together in different ways. This is one of the issues to be discussed. The Commission's task is to come back with an analysis and a proposal. Then we'll have to take it from there.
