i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-31	Madam President, I would like Cassandra Sundin has asked me whether I or the government intend to follow the recommendation of the Nordic Council on increased cooperation in Nordic healthcare and to implement its intentions from the Swedish side. The starting point for Nordic cooperation is to create added value for the Nordic countries and their citizens. Nordic cooperation on health issues is of great importance. By working together, we can benefit from each other's knowledge and experiences. The Nordic welfare model can thus be further developed and strengthened. Nordic health cooperation is currently conducted in a number of different areas. Several of them originate from proposals contained in the report The Future Nordic Health Cooperation. This report was prepared by Bo Könberg and submitted to the Nordic Council of Ministers in June 2014. One of the proposals in the report is to establish Nordic public health cooperation. This proposal has been taken forward, and the Nordic Council of Ministers decided a few years ago to establish a Nordic public health arena. Based on proposals in the report, cooperation has also been further developed, including on highly specialised care, rare diseases and e-health. I agree with the interpellier on the need to invest in equal care. Access to welfare services should be equal regardless of where in the country you live. To contribute to this, Sweden, under the chairmanship of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2018, started the Nordic project Solutions for Distance Care. The project is led by Glebygdsmedicinska center in Region Västerbotten and the Nordic Welfare Centre. The aim is to improve the accessibility of the Nordic population to good care and to create conditions for development and growth. As a result of the project, a report was published in autumn 2019 with a survey of digital healthcare solutions from all Nordic countries. This report can serve as an inspiration and guidance for how innovative healthcare and care solutions can be implemented. I can also point out that on 21 February 2019 the Nordic Council of Ministers responded to the recommendation of the Nordic Council regarding increased cooperation between the Nordic healthcare systems. The answer shows that the Nordic Council of Ministers supports the recommendation to strengthen Nordic cooperation in the area of healthcare. In conclusion, there are a number of ongoing initiatives aimed at creating stronger health cooperation between our Nordic countries. The Nordic Council of Ministers is of the opinion that the recommendation is thus met.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-36	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Working for a living countryside and for the whole country to live is one of the most important issues today. When more and more people choose to settle closer to larger cities and thus also closer to most of the welfare system, you need to see what options exist to be able to cater for, among other things, health care in rural areas. Given that several counties have a direct land border with another Nordic country, there is sometimes already a natural link in the form of work, where people spend their free time and the like. Another important aspect to remember is the supply of skills and jobs in sparsely populated areas. For example, my own constituency of Jämtland has a lot of exchanges of and with Norway in different contexts, and both Norwegians and Swedes work and vacations in their neighbouring country. Emergency health care in the interior of Norrland is quite limited in many respects, and an extended cooperation with Norway in particular would do a great deal for the municipalities concerned. Jämtland County accounts for approximately 12 per cent of Sweden's area and is sparsely populated, as a large part of the population lives in rural areas. One important thing to remember in this is that many elderly people live in rural areas and that they may have additional problems when it comes to being able to use the healthcare they need quickly because of large distances and poor accessibility. In addition, tourism is an incredibly important industry, which, among other things, provides many jobs. Much of the tourism in the county comes from other Nordic countries, which also creates an interest in close healthcare cooperation. I am well aware of the answer given by the Nordic Council of Ministers. This is simply a follow-up to one of the recommendations of the Nordic Council. My second question is this: does the Minister see any obstacles on this issue, and what does the government intend to do there?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-43	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I always find it very gratifying that Members raise questions not only about health care in general but also about Nordic cooperation, because that is of course very natural. Before Christmas I answered an interpellation – I think it came from Linda Ylivainio, who has now changed her last name – which was more specifically about the ambulance staff's ability to travel across borders and so on. These are important issues. Just as Cassandra Sundin mentioned, many people live near a border and thus have a county as a ledger closer at hand to cooperating with than another Swedish region does. I would like to emphasise that all the issues relating to the reduction of border barriers of various kinds described by Cassandra Sundin in relation to Nordic cooperation do not lie with me. There is a minister – Hans Dahlgren or Ann Linde – who is responsible for Nordic issues in a broader way. In order to develop the answer that I have already given, there is a need to constantly develop cooperation and dialogue, but it is not that we have a common regulatory framework in the Nordic countries. It is even the case that the countries that are members of the EU often have the legal framework to describe the mobility and rights of patients rather than the existence of a specific Nordic regulatory framework. However, there is a need for increased cooperation, and these are, of course, issues that are high on the agenda. I say once again that there are times when recommendations can be confused. There are very many recommendations, and at EU level recommendations in a different way represent an expectation that something should be done in a specific way. When the Nordic Council makes recommendations, they are addressed to the Council of Ministers, and then the Council of Ministers considers how to deal with this. The Nordic Council of Ministers meets once a year, depending on which country is chairman. Bo Könberg's report has been followed up on several occasions and it has landed in the fact that it has come as far as it can come with this report, but the work continues, of course. I have nothing further to add when it comes to following any specific recommendation, but the work continues according to the needs. This applies not least to the need, for example, to allow ambulances to cross borders and to have emergency care that allows you to benefit from your neighbours, whether they are on the territory of Sweden or other Nordic countries. There may be different obstacles depending on the issue.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-50	Madam President, I would like There are several areas, including health care, that are relevant when it comes to Nordic cooperation. I believe that the most important thing to focus on here is partly to develop the Nordic public health work and partly to investigate the collaboration between healthcare systems in areas such as organ transplants, rehabilitation of children after severe accidents and surgery on newborns. There are many diseases and injuries that are very rare, and then it is valuable to be able to coordinate excellence in a limited number of hospitals in the Nordic region and then be able to give help via referral. When it comes to public health work, and perhaps above all the work to reduce mental illness, there is much to do in all Nordic countries. An important issue here is how to deal with children and young people in difficult situations, for example being able to offer conversational therapy and investigations, and not just psychopharmaceuticals. However, these are issues on which the Nordic Council is working and on which we have reason to return. I very much hope that the government will give priority to these issues in the future. Thank you, Minister, for your answers.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-53	Madam President, I would like I am a little unsure what Cassandra Sundin thinks the government should proceed with, because it is clear that we continue to have cooperation and exchanges between the countries. Just as I mentioned in the answer, Region Västerbotten and the centre of Glebygdsmedicinska has a responsibility to develop this type of medicine in sparsely populated areas, and it has come a very long way. There is nothing to prevent progress in other areas. I know that Denmark, which will chair the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2020, wants not least to put the issue of mental illness on the agenda. Our Nordic cooperation and exchange continues. But when it comes to very specific exchanges between regions within different specialities, it is not the Nordic cooperation that is the easiest way to go, but it is often cooperation, dialogue and exchange between specific regions, even if they are on the other side of the country border. We must then try to do what we can to facilitate this. The Nordic cooperation will not be the easiest way to develop treatment methods, but we will continue to exchange experiences and knowledge.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-55	Madam President, I would like I'm done.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-56	Madam President, I would like We'll have to get back to you on future occasions. I'm sure they'll come.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-57	Madam President, I would like Sara Gille has asked me if I intend to act in order to establish national statistics on how many children are being taken out of Sweden on upbringing trips and what I and the government are doing to prevent people being sent away on upbringing trips. To send him or her to another country against the will of a child to be raised, to be married or even subjected to genital mutilation in some cases is terrible abuse of the child. Unfortunately, we know that such journeys are still taking place. Last year, the Department of Trikes dealt with 25 matters relating to so-called upbringing trips with minors and young adults. These were mainly trips to Kenya and Somalia. The government takes this very seriously and will continue its efforts to strengthen legislation, knowledge and practices among professionals in this field. Strengthening society's capacity to combat education trips is a broad task that affects the work of several actors, not least in schools, the police and social services. Each actor needs knowledge and competence based on their respective roles and responsibilities. Through the county administrative boards, the Government supports the development of regional resource centres for children and adults who are vulnerable or at risk of being subjected to violence by related or honorary violence and repression. Foreign affairs also plays an important role in the fight against the abduction of children against their will. The government has strengthened the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' work for those in need abroad with a focus on child and forced marriages. This may also involve children and young people being placed with relatives or in institutions of an institutional nature for the purpose of education. The Government's initiative has meant an increased capacity to handle this type of matter within the foreign administration, as well as a development of working methods and knowledge that is also valuable for preventive efforts in the municipalities. The final report "Enhanced protection against honour-related crime" (SOU 2018:69) proposes a penalised exit ban for children who are at risk of being taken out of Sweden for the purpose of marriage or genital mutilation. The report also addresses the issue of increasing the possibility of keeping statistics on honour-related crime. The report is currently being prepared within the Council, and the ambition is to decide on a proposal in spring 2020.
i-7e53yEN4BqVwpFjWGCEER4	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lena Hallengren, for your answer! Unfortunately, there is not enough talk about the problem of honour here in Sweden. We need to get better at talking about it but also act much faster than we do. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been tasked with strengthening work on children and young people taken abroad. It is then about forced marriages and genital mutilation, but also about so-called upbringing trips. Precisely upbringing trips are something we rarely hear of. The problem of honour is usually associated with forced marriages and genital mutilation, but there are also those who are taken abroad on so-called upbringing trips. Madam President, I would like Last year, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had 127 matters related to the issue of honor, and the number of darkness is probably much larger. Of these 127 cases, approximately 30 concerned boys. Because the number of darkness is so great, you don't know exactly how many it is. Unfortunately, many people never come to the attention of the authorities. It could be hundreds of boys and young men who are taken abroad to be raised. Unfortunately, we lack reliable national statistics on the whole, and that is to betray the needs and rights of children. Madam President, I would like The Government mentions 25 matters related to so-called upbringing trips with underage young adults. I would like to know from the Government how many of these 25 cases have led to concrete measures and proper penalties. As I mentioned in the interpellation, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has warned that the number of young people sent to Somalia and Kenya, among others, is increasing. There the boys risk being locked up in educational institutions, where they are chained up or subjected to violence. These institutions are growing, and someone is making money in these institutions. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats want to introduce an international ban for children at risk of marriage or genital mutilation in their home country. It is important to include training trips in this legislation as well. How does the Government view this?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-70	Madam President, I would like I feel that Sara Gille repeats some of what I said. As I mentioned in my reply, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs deals with 25 cases involving young people who have been abducted, forced marriage or genital mutilation. We are increasingly talking about honour-related problems, about honour-related violence and about the consequences that this can have for children and young people, and for that matter also for adults. I also think that we are acting on the knowledge that we have. But it is important to constantly work to increase knowledge, and the honor-related thing itself is problematic. There is not a specific or simply defined concept in the Code of Criminal Procedure in respect of honour crimes. Moreover, it is in the nature of the matter that no one really talks about this and that it is difficult to obtain evidence. This, of course, makes it difficult. But that doesn't stop us from doing everything we can. I also said there's a bill coming up later this spring. Then we will be able to discuss much more in detail what balances we are making. Questions that have been included in the investigation have been, for example, how to even raise the issue of forced action. It is one way of really ensuring that there are consequences if children are brought out for genital mutilation, for forced marriages or on a journey of upbringing. It should also be possible in such situations, as in school and other contexts, to report concerns and have the opportunity to be forced to take care of them. This is one of the proposals which has been examined and which is being prepared. I can't precede the whole bill, but it will come in the spring. I believe that it will give cause for further discussion and that it will also provide many answers to the questions that Sara Gille and many others naturally ask themselves, because this is very worrying. We need to review the legislation, but every single municipality also needs to have a strategy for its work. How do you know in a school which students could be in a situation where there is a risk of them being subjected to honour-related violence or being taken away during the summer and at worst not coming back? Even if the children come back, it should have the consequences that I mentioned. How do you act as a school staff? Where do you turn? It is of course important to have that kind of strategy and knowledge in a municipality and contact with social services.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-76	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, this is a growing problem today. Boys are subjected to terrible acts that no one should have to suffer, and it is terrible that someone can treat them like this. Madam President, I would like It is strange that this occurs in Sweden in 2020 and that there are still no reliable statistics on educational travel. These trips should not be allowed to take place anywhere. The government wants to ban plastic products and believes that campaigns are not enough to have an impact. However, in the case of children who, against their will, are taken abroad on parenting trips or to be married away, circumcised or genitally stymied, the government does not impose laws or prohibitions. More laws need to be introduced against this. Among other things, Sweden needs a law that forces parents and relatives to state where the family's children are. When 9 000 adult men who lied about their age were in danger of having to leave Sweden, it took only a few months to come up with legislation to protect them. But when it comes to upbringing trips, forced marriages, and more, the government is not interested in intervening as quickly. Why is this lack of interest? Is it because it's an adult child or because it's boys and girls? Why does the government not give priority to the safety of these individuals as high as that of adult Afghan men? Does the Government believe that the Government has done enough, and does it really think that it should take so long?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-82	Madam President, I would like Thanks to the current government, the Convention on the Rights of the Child became a law on 1 January 2020. It shows that we take children's rights very seriously. This applies to all children regardless of their background, the country in which they were born, the economic conditions they have and so on. Forced marriage and genital mutilation are not allowed. Anyone who thinks it's misinformed about what reality looks like. The question is how we discover the signs better. How do we ensure that children feel so secure that they dare to tell them what they are afraid of being exposed to and at risk of being exposed to? How do we ensure that there are adults with knowledge of honor-related problems? How do we ensure that staff in social services, schools and associations know what could happen and know where to turn if they are worried that at worst a child may be abducted for forced marriage, genital mutilation or the like? It is equally serious about the honour-related violence and all the actions that mean that women are limited and do not feel freedom. How do we ensure that the adult world and the Swedish Government see this and know what to do? Let me emphasise once again that forced marriage is not permitted. Children do not have the right to marry. Genital mutilation is also not allowed. So the legislation is not wrong. Instead, the question is how we create a security that makes children and young people know that this is wrong and nothing they should be exposed to and know where to turn. Let me repeat that there will be a proposal in the spring. If we are to change the legislation so that it not only restricts people's freedom but perhaps also involves forced action, this obviously needs to be investigated first.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-89	Madam President, I would like The fact that this exists at all in Sweden means that the government has not acted enough. For me, it is crystal clear that this should not occur in Sweden or anywhere else. Nevertheless, I hope, deep down, that the Government will agree with this, despite the fact that the Government has not acted quickly enough. A child should be allowed to be a child, and no one should be someone else's possession. Madam President, I would like The government is really trying to make it sound like the government is acting against upbringing trips. But reality says otherwise. In the five years that the Social Democratic Government has now been sitting, nothing has been done to prevent boys from being taken abroad on educational trips. The introduction of legislation of this kind, which imposes burdensome public law and new penalties, should take no more than two to three years, and this government, as I have said, has been in power for more than five years. Despite the fact that investigations have been carried out that have even pointed out the need for rapid action, very little is happening. To blame for the fact that it normally takes time does not last when you can at the same time legislate on adult Afghan men who should be able to take care of themselves – and then the law is suddenly ready in a few months. How can the government not act quickly enough on this issue? It does not befit a country like Sweden to turn a blind eye to the fact that young boys from these countries are suffering very badly.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-95	Madam President, I would like I repeat: the Convention on the Rights of the Child regulates children's rights and applies to all children. I find it difficult to buy Sara Gilles's description that the government does not see and does not want to do anything about what does not work and is still a problem. Of course, we do not want forced marriages, genital mutilation or breeding trips. As early as 2004, educational trips were recognised. 15 - 16 years ago it was a relatively new phenomenon that we were not used to. So-called "message sheets" were then drawn up. Social services would be informed about how to deal with and act in a situation where children and young people were at risk of being taken abroad. The bill will come in spring, and we will continue the discussion and the discussion then. I assume that no one in this House thinks that children and young people should be taken away against their will or that we should have some form of honour-related violence in Sweden. Municipalities, schools and social services have a great responsibility here, and it is not always easy to see and discover this. We must ensure that children and young people who are exposed feel confident enough to tell them what they are experiencing so that it cannot be hidden within the four walls of the home.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-101	Madam President, I would like Josefin Malmqvist has asked me when I will act to allow systematic and unannounced home visits to beneficiaries once again. She has also asked when the social services' exemption from the obligation to notify is replaced by a duty to notify in the event of fraud. Every squandered crown is a theft from the people, said my predecessor Gustav Möller, and it is equally true today. The welfare system is for those who really need it, and it is important to ensure that the right person receives the right compensation. Combating fraud is a priority and the government has taken a series of measures to strengthen control and reduce crime in welfare systems. During the last term of office, Lars-Erik-Erik Lövdén was commissioned to review shortcomings in today's system and propose measures to prevent and combat welfare crimes. He presented a long list of proposals, where the government has already implemented more than half. A number of measures have been taken, for example, to improve the quality of population records. The government has given the Tax Agency the opportunity to make visits to check a person's residence and also to re-establish a civil record crime, something that the alliance the government abolished. The government has also tightened other laws. The scale of penalties for serious aid offences has been tightened, and the obligation to recover in the event of undue payments has been extended to include municipalities in the notification obligation. So to the question of home visits. In some cases social services may have a legitimate interest in making home visits to an aid applicant. However, such home visits should be made with due regard to personal integrity and in cases where they are necessary to provide a satisfactory basis for examining the person's application for financial assistance. The general extension of legislation to systematic and unannounced home visits as desired by the interpeller is, however, accompanied by difficult trade-offs and the issue is not straightforward. At present, I believe that social services have balanced powers to control the individual's right to assistance and to cooperate with other authorities to prosecute benefit offences. I will, of course, continue to follow these issues.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-109	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Incorrect payments of financial assistance cost taxpayers just over half a billion SEK annually, according to the Delegation for correct payments from the welfare systems, which presented its investigation just before Christmas. This undermines trust and takes resources from our common well-being and from those who are entitled to support. The same investigation I have just mentioned estimates that around SEK 300 billion has been wrongly paid out over the last 15 years. That is why I asked the Minister about two of the measures that have proved necessary, namely home visits and notification obligations. With regard to home visits, the example in Sundbyberg showed that one in four households was not entitled to support. So 25 percent of those who received home visits were not entitled to support. This shows that home visits are an important tool. The most common reason was that they simply did not live at the given address, and this was discovered by social services when they came and rang. Home visits were previously a tool available for social services, but after a number of judgments it is no longer possible for social services, for example, to make unannounced home visits. Home visits must now be notified and approved in advance by the visitor. We believe that this should be changed so that it will again be possible to make unannounced home visits. On the issue of notification obligations, the Minister mentioned the legislation that came into force at the end of the year. I and the Moderates welcome many of the changes included in the legislation. It is good that they have finally arrived and that we have finally had some changes in this area, but that is still insufficient. The legislation makes a distinction between financial support and financial benefit. Let me give you an example. If the police contact the municipality with suspicion of a benefit crime, the municipality still does not have the possibility, with the new legislation, to notify the police whether or not the person is present and receive financial assistance from the municipality. This is something that needs to be reviewed. Therefore, my question to the Government remains: when will the government act to close these gaps?
i-CsavwwaAkXd1aTThZtEST	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Malmqvist, for the question. As I said in my reply, it is, of course, urgent that those who receive subsidies or supply aid or otherwise receive tax revenue receive this on the correct basis. It is a prerequisite for there to be confidence in the overall welfare system. I am the first to emphasise this. It is also important that social services have the time and resources to do what they are very good at, namely to prevent children and young people from falling into the wrong place, to provide support for families, to provide opportunities for treatment when people suffer from abuse and so on. Spending considerable resources on systematically and more generally making home visits is not a proposal that the government plans to put forward. However, there is this tool for a municipality to use when you feel that there is a need. In order to ensure that a person really has support, there is the possibility of making home visits, but to do this systematically and visit everyone is not something that we plan to make a proposal about. I think it is important to look at this from a perspective that involves staff in social services working on other things than making home visits. I do not think that the issue of integrity should be swept directly under the carpet. It is about making home visits without any real reason other than that it is a person who has subsistence support. There should be another basis in addition to having only supply support, such as the suspicion that the person receives a supply support that is not to be provided. Of course, aid offences should not be encouraged, but should be prosecuted.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-119	Madam President, I would like But that is the point. After the judgments that have come, it is no longer an accessible tool for social services to make unannounced home visits when they see that it is a tool that they would like to use in their investigative work. That was the case in the past, but it is no longer the case, hence my question to the Minister, to whom I have still not been given an answer. I would like to return to Lars-Erik-Erik Lövdén's state investigation, which was presented almost three years ago. There are many suggestions in the investigation that have still not been put in place. One is to improve the ability of law enforcement authorities to detect and prosecute grant offences. At the same time, the government now chooses to invest twice as much in free years as in the police. How is this to improve the capacity of law enforcement authorities to combat grant crime? I would also like to ask about a single payment function. This is also a proposal that Lars-Erik-Erik Lövdén highlights in his report. The aim is to bring together payments from welfare systems in order to achieve greater control. This is something of which there is good international experience, for example in the UK and Norway, to mention two examples. The investigation also proposes that the Swedish Economic Crime Authority be given special responsibility for grant offences.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-123	Madam President, I would like It almost sounds to Josefin Malmqvist that the social services can in principle do little more than pay support. This is not really in harmony with the truth. The social services can contact other authorities when it comes to information about benefits and benefits from Försäkringskassan, an unemployment fund or the Pension Agency, and it is possible to check for example the population register address. There is also the possibility of making home visits, but not unannounced and systematic. There is one aspect that concerns the privacy of the individual. There is a need for social services to ensure that the right contribution goes to the right individuals. If there is insufficient evidence to determine whether the person has a need for financial assistance, there is even the possibility of refusing the payment of assistance. It is important that the social services carry out the necessary checks. It is possible to make home visits, but it should be well balanced. There should be a basis for the home visit. I would like to emphasise once again that the integrity of a person is not entirely insignificant simply because he has financial assistance or support at the bottom.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-126	Madam President, I would like The Minister sounds quite pleased. She mentions that there is now, for example, an opportunity to see a registered address. As the Minister of Social Affairs is well aware, payments of financial assistance are not linked to the address of the population register but to the address of residence. It's about where you live, not where you're registered. This is one of the reasons why the possibility of unannounced home visits is needed – that this information needs to be provided. According to the study presented before Christmas, 20 billion are paid out incorrectly each year in various types of welfare contributions. That's 5 1⁄2 percent of all contributions. It is horrifyingly the same proportion of undue payments that another government investigation noted 15 years ago. After 15 years, it is still the same proportion of irregular payments. When the Minister says that she will continue to follow these issues, I wonder and, I believe, many of Sweden's taxpayers: When will the government wake up and start acting? We are black and white that a wide range of measures urgently need to be put in place. I still have no reply from the Minister as to when these measures will be available to the social services in their investigative work.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-129	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise once again that welfare crime must be prosecuted. It is far broader than supply aid, which is the subject of this discussion. This applies to tax offences and persons who do not pay white when different services are carried out, which is a large part. There are also other insurance schemes and subsidies where we can suspect that people do not get access to them on the right grounds. Of course, it is incredibly important to get to grips with this. Now the interpellation was specifically about unannounced home visits to make sure that someone does not receive supply support on incorrect grounds. In conclusion, my answer is nothing more than what I began with, namely the possibility of making home visits. But that we should start with unannounced home visits on a systematic basis without there being a suspicion that grants have been paid out on a false basis is a type of change that I see no reason to implement. On the other hand, it is important to ensure that there are different ways of coordinating with other authorities and acquiring the knowledge needed to know that the person in question should have the support paid out.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-131	Madam President, I would like Sofia Westergren, Boriana Åberg and Helena Bouveng have asked me about the environmental tax increases, the green tax shift and the tax reform that the January agreement will implement during the term of office. They have also asked me what consequences and effects I see for households, businesses and the cohesion of implemented and future tax changes. Tax policy should ensure stable tax revenues and create the conditions for sustainable growth and high employment. The tax changes implemented by the Government will contribute to increased employment, increased hours worked and to the achievement of climate and environmental objectives. In addition, the funding of welfare needs to be secured. On the basis of the January agreement, we are solving social problems and creating the conditions for a society in which cohesion and security go hand in hand with people's freedom and opportunities. This is how we take Sweden forward. Work is under way on the reforms resulting from the January agreement. H from the green tax exchange and the tax reform to be implemented, the government will therefore come back to.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-135	Madam President, I would like Today, the subsidy line is being developed at the expense of the work line. The economic cycle is turning downwards. The economy of the municipalities is being destroyed because of demography and a failed integration policy. The promises promised the EU's lowest unemployment rate. Instead, however, we got the lowest growth in the European Union. Sweden is now on the jumbo scene with the lowest growth. The government is hunting for Sweden to be at the forefront when it comes to climate targets. It's nice to think like that, but there's backsides. The climate is global and cannot be narrowed into a small export-dependent country in the north. Today it is intellectually dishonest to develop green tax exchanges. A good environmental tax is a tax that reduces emissions. A good environmental tax will provide stability in the economy and a long-term global environmental impact. The government has already engaged in tax increases in the name of the environment during the last parliamentary term. Nevertheless, emissions have increased. It is tax increases that have hampered jobs, growth and cohesion. These are tax increases on flights, where aviation has been taxed without account being taken of whether the aircraft is electric or on fossil-free fuel. The airline tax has meant that flights choose to land in countries other than Sweden. The government has systematically made it more expensive to live in rural areas. With the deterioration of the travel allowance, the differences between the country and the city will increase. Interpretations are made that the costs of the car will continue to increase with Magdalena Andersson as Minister of Finance. We have shock rises to wait, if you listen to Fossil free Sweden. The chemical tax has made the situation even worse for Swedish companies. For example, more white goods are imported, as imported white goods are not subject to the chemical tax. A lot of stores have had to close down. This happens at a time when fewer people support more and more people. Unemployment rates are rising, even though the country has been in a boom for a long time. And the costs of municipalities increase as support for livelihoods increases. Madam President, I would like We see the consequences when companies are taxed more than they are estimated. Companies are the engine that creates jobs and growth and generates tax revenue, which is the basis for prosperity. I'm genuinely worried about the country. What happens when more inefficient tax shifts in the name of the environment appear? My questions to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson are therefore: Does the Minister intend to include a kilometre tax or increase taxes on vehicles and travellers in the green tax exchange or in the forthcoming tax reform? What further tax increases are there to be introduced during the term of office as part of the green tax shift? What negative consequences do the Minister see for businesses and people living in rural areas and outside our major cities with the environmental taxes introduced and increased by the government – and with the environmental taxes now planned as part of the green tax exchange?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-146	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is strange that the Minister, instead of giving serious answers to three serious interpellations, is content with generally fine words about government policy and the importance of fiscal policy. Is it really, as the Minister says, tax policy that secures tax revenue? Isn't it the companies? At best, a well-functioning tax policy encourages people to invest in entrepreneurship, and entrepreneurship is, as is well known, associated with great risks. Fire taxing companies is rarely a successful concept of success. Our companies are in a global context. They compete on the world market, and it is vital for them that domestic rules do not distort competition. Our companies are struggling hard to develop new products and services, grow, hire and generate tax revenue for the common welfare. This requires a tax policy that does not counteract their efforts through unnecessary and sometimes even harmful taxes. Unfortunately, the government has not delivered such a policy – quite the opposite. Under the pretext of protecting the environment, such things as the chemical tax, the cogeneration tax and the tax on waste incineration have been introduced. These taxes have no proven environmental benefits, but they have affected and will affect Swedish companies very negatively. The government has, in principle, opposed most of the referral bodies to the introduction of these taxes. Soon the tax on plastic carrier bags will also come, an expression of symbolic politics when it is at its worst. You just go on without analysing the consequences for either companies or households. I got caught up in a sentence in the minister's answer. On the basis of the January agreement, she said, we solve social problems and create the conditions for a society in which cohesion and security go hand in hand with people's freedom and opportunities. With all due respect, Minister, that's nonsense. The government has not solved any social problems. Crime is spreading. Explosives, shootings and robberies against young and old take place daily. There's no security when people don't even dare go out for fear of being the victim of crime. Freedom is also severely curtailed, among other things, for people who live in sparsely populated areas and depend on the car. The taxes on fuel mean that the freedom to settle where you want and take the job you want soon is gone. In the 2014 elections, the Prime Minister promised that we would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate, and we know how it went. Little is being done to make it easier for Swedish companies and for more people to have a job to go to. Instead, it invests in free years and family weeks in order for people to work less. I would therefore like to repeat my questions. What concrete measures is the Minister taking to ensure job growth? Is the Minister prepared to reconsider previous positions on taxation?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-151	Madam President, I would like Welcome to a new term in Parliament! I should also like to welcome the Minister for Finance to Parliament. However, it will be a little hard to thank for the answer, because that is probably the most mediocre answer I have ever heard. But let us take the debate here instead! Madam President, I would like Sweden has problems with low growth and high unemployment, and it is still a fundamental problem that it does not pay enough to work. At the same time, people feel that they do not get currency for their tax money given the high taxes they actually pay, whether it be health care, care for the elderly, law enforcement or school. This also applies to climate policy. A few days ago, the government's climate policy was awarded the award for the worst waste of the year in 2019. That may not be surprising either, Madam President, given the results. In fact, the appropriations for climate policy have more than doubled in recent years, while emissions have in principle stopped decreasing. In spite of this, emissions do not, in principle, decrease. Experts such as Riksrevisionen and Konjunkturinstitutet have condemned many of the government's major efforts, such as the Climate Centre, the support for electric cars and solar power support. Riksrevisor Helena Lindberg stated in January 2019 in a commentary on the Swedish National Audit Office's review of climate change that climate costs per kilogram of greenhouse gas emissions have been high. In a commentary on the Government's budget in 2017, the Institute of Economics wrote that the programme risks becoming a costly blow in the air. These are not gracious comments from the state's own expert authorities, Madam President. At the same time, I can say that up to one in three environmental cars sold in Sweden with an environmental car bonus will be exported to Norway within just a few years. The fact that tax money is being spent on subsidies for electric bicycles and climate anxiety therapy is just a few examples of what I think is why the government is not getting the very desirable award for this year's worst waste. Tax money is wasted for no real good. Madam President, I would like The climate of the Red Green Government is certainly not a fun reading. Since access in 2014, Sweden's emissions have decreased by less than 1 per cent per year, and this at the same time as Sweden's emissions must be reduced by 5 – 8 per cent per year in order for us to reach the parliament's decided goal of Sweden being climate neutral in 2045. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Finance what Swedish taxpayers actually get for their green tax money. So far, the results are more than mediocre.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-158	Madam President, I would like It seems that many of the debaters believe that it is important that emissions are reduced faster than they do. That is a view I fully share, and I believe that we therefore need to strengthen climate policy. I note, however, that in the Moderates' proposal here in Parliament I do not see measures that reduce Swedish emissions; on the contrary, a veritable slaughter is being carried out on the environmental and climate budget that the government has. Mine and, I think, most people's assessment is that emissions in Sweden would not decrease more with Moderate politics, but less. I have questions about which taxes will change during my term of office. We will be able to present this as discussions with the parties to the January Agreement are completed, and these discussions will, of course, be conducted internally. I have been asked about the government's job growth policy, and I would like to take some examples. When I meet companies, there are two questions they usually raise. One is problems with transport and infrastructure, and the other is problems with finding skilled workers. Therefore, the government has expanded the knowledge boost, to ensure high quality in the workforce so that employers can find the skills they require. It is a policy that the Moderates strongly oppose. In addition, we have made the biggest investment in infrastructure in modern times. Among other things, we are now building high-speed roads – a policy that the Moderates were first against and then were for, and now they are against again. One can of course change, once again, but it is really in demand of the business community with new main roads. The Parliament has also just decided on an increased deduction for research-intensive small businesses. We have also introduced an initial deduction – to mention just a few of the measures taken by the government. Helena Bouveng says my interpellation response is mediocre. Then I can just say that as you ask, you get answers.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-163	Madam President, I would like I would first like to reply to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson that during the time of the Alliance emissions were reduced. Under the Social Democratic Government, emissions have increased. What is happening to Sweden when fewer and fewer people are going to support more and more people? What happens to Sweden when companies, entrepreneurs and capital flee the country? Companies that should go first in climate smartness feel obliged to move abroad. I'm following the development of Preemraff. They want to invest in increased production of fuel from forest residues. That decision is still with the government. Once again, we cannot only look at the environmental benefits in Sweden alone, but we must see it in a global context. I'm from Stenungsund. The chemical industry wants to recycle plastic through refining. I can see that it too might end up in the same slow mill. Is Sweden ready to have this type of production within the country? Or does the government want to drive our businesses out of the country when we need jobs and businesses most in order to increase growth and no longer be in a jumbo place in Europe? I would like to put another question to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson: Does the Minister of Finance want to pursue more policy that reinforces the development that I have described in my interpellation?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-169	Madam President and the Minister. Moderates' environmental policies are designed to address the problems where they exist rather than focus on symbolic measures. The Moderates are also fighting hard to restore all the damage caused by the Social Democratic policy, including the closure of nuclear power stations. The government claims to want to pursue a strong environmental policy, but that is not true of reality. I will go into some examples of taxes that were meant to improve the environment and save the climate but that have worked in the opposite direction and have damaged the competitiveness of Swedish companies. Take, for example, the tax on the incineration of waste, which actually counteracts the intention to reduce CO2 emissions and all other harmful emissions. It is also a tax that goes completely against the principle of polluter pays, because it is paid not by the person who generates the waste but by the person who takes care of it. Energy recovery of foreign waste has led to one of Sweden's largest export successes for environmental technology in terms of both economics and environmental benefits. When it becomes more expensive for energy recovery in Sweden, other countries will take ownership of the waste management market. Swedish companies will lose important income, and it will also be less tax revenue to invest in welfare. There is also a major destruction of capital because billions have been invested in waste-fired cogeneration, without state aid, with the idea that these plants would have been used for a long time. The tax on waste incineration is a penalty tax on well-functioning technologies. It creates concern on the market. Who dares to invest in new technologies when conditions can change at any time because of the whims of politicians? Another example is the chemical tax, which was first introduced and then driven without its effects having been evaluated. In this regard, the Riksdag has addressed an announcement to the Government. The purpose of the tax was to reduce the hazardous chemicals in our homes and workplaces. This did not happen, since the trade was transferred to the network. The chemical tax has cost Sweden thousands of jobs when physical stores have closed down. Revenues to the Treasury were also much lower than forecast. In addition, the chemicals tax counteracts the circular economy that the government claims to seek. The government also wants to introduce taxes on plastic carrier bags, which we Moderates are against. The tax is unfortunately designed, as it makes no difference to whether the plastic carrier bag is of fossil origin or is made from renewable material. 75 – 80 percent of all plastic carrier bags manufactured in Sweden are fossil-free. Many Swedish companies have made major investments to develop new plastics that are better for the environment, while large parts of Swedish trade are working towards the goal that all plastic carrier bags sold in grocery stores should be of only renewable plastics.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-176	Madam President, I would like Like my colleague Sofia Westergren, I note that during the alliance period emissions were reduced while growth increased. Perhaps it would be something for the Minister of Finance to look a little closer at, so that our taxpayers really get the currency for their green tax money. The Minister for Finance says in his reply that fiscal policy should secure stable tax revenues and create the conditions for sustainable growth and high employment. The tax changes implemented by the Government will contribute to increased employment and increased hours worked and to the achievement of climate and environmental objectives. I wonder if it is not exactly the opposite, Madam President: that we have fewer hours worked, that unemployment is higher and that climate targets are not met. The January agreement stipulates that the share of environmental taxes in tax revenues will increase through a strong green tax exchange with increased environmental taxes – so-called environmental taxes. The clear problem with the various so-called environmental taxes that the government pushed through last term of office and now continues to enforce is that they often have no or very marginal effect on environmental problems but many other negative effects on society. The government devoted its previous term of office to introducing and raising a number of taxes in the name of the environment. It hampers jobs, it inhibits growth and it hampers cohesion. As my colleagues have mentioned, a flight tax was introduced, fuel taxes skyrocketed and a chemical tax was introduced – just to name a few. Now the January agreement continues with more taxes in the name of the environment that hamper jobs and growth: taxes on cogeneration, taxes on waste incineration, plastic bag tax and increased chemicals tax. These are taxes that distort Swedish competitiveness, hamper jobs in rural areas, reduce plastic recycling – as Boriana Åberg said – and kill the best example of circular plastic use in Swedish commerce and industry. Why, Madam President, do we have a finance minister who imposes so-called environmental taxes that hamper jobs, growth and cohesion and have no or only marginal effect on environmental challenges? What exactly do Swedish taxpayers get for their green tax money?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-183	Madam President, I would like Moderate Members of Parliament seem to have a great deal of knowledge about the effects of taxes that have not yet been introduced, nor have they been evaluated. This must well be interpreted as the Moderates' attitude towards knowledge-based argumentation. I note that a large number of moderate Members of Parliament stand here and are evil about environmental and climate taxes. Views can be made on these individual taxes. But the Moderates would have much more credibility in the argumentation if they had their own powerful environmental policy. It's not like that. It is said that these measures are ineffective. It is absolutely true that there are more effective taxes than those raised by the government. According to the research community, the CO2 tax is the most effective. But it is, as far as I know, not something the Moderates want to work with. So the Moderates know what they're against. But there is not much that they are in favour of when it comes to environmental and climate policy. It is sad to see, when we see the impact of climate change here and now and how it burns in Australia. The Swedish debate would need more constructive proposals for how we can combat climate change. We do not need moderates who complain about everything the government does, who in their proposals slaughter what the government does and who do not have their own toolbox full of their own proposals. The Moderates are against.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-187	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Andersson for the answer, although I do not agree with her. I am genuinely concerned about Sweden's development. The government does not understand to appreciate the companies but prefers to tax them. The government has wasted five years of prosperity and now has the jumbo place in terms of economic development in Europe. I would like to give our Minister for Finance Magdalena Andersson some advice. It is to appreciate companies more than tax them and to strengthen the work line. Why not introduce a premium ceiling to clarify an incentive to work? Today we have published that an amending budget will be presented to the Committee on Finance. There the Moderates are very clear with a toolbox to create a better Sweden. There will be more money for municipalities and the judiciary. The Moderates are absolutely a party that is in favour of a better development of Sweden.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-191	Madam President, I would like I do not think that the Minister should blame anyone other than the Government for the fact that the evaluation of the effects of the chemical tax, which Parliament has asked the government to do in an announcement, has not been made. When it comes to learning, there are other evaluations. For example, the Swedish Trade Investigation Institute has shown the lack of environmental impact of the chemical tax and that it has harmed Swedish companies and the employability of the labour force. It has certainly been counterproductive in every way. I recommend that the minister read that investigation pending completion of the government's own investigation. I would also like to ask the Minister for Finance about the major reform promised in the January agreement, which would make the tax system simpler and, at the same time, reduce the gaps. The policy that the government has delivered so far has made the tax system even more complicated, if possible, with, for example, rural deductions and other things. Moreover, the gaps have not diminished. On the contrary, they have increased. The government has opened up irresponsible immigration and family immigration to people who do not have a chance to get a foothold on the labour market and become self-sufficient within a reasonable time. How does the Minister of Finance intend to reduce these gaps?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-195	Madam President, I would like In fact, I do not doubt the government's environmental ambitions. And I would ask the Minister for Finance not to doubt our ambitions either. We fully agree that the climate needs effective action. Once again, I can only say that during our time in the government, we reduced emissions while increasing growth. Maybe it would be something to look at. In his reply, the Minister for Finance says that fiscal policy should ensure stable tax revenues. There's nothing wrong with that. But when it comes to what the government calls environmental taxes, the aim would be to phase out what it taxes, with, for example, the plastic bag tax. The Government expects the tax to give several billion SEK to the Treasury. But if the plastic bag tax has the effect that the government says it wants, i.e. that nobody uses the recyclable plastic bags, there will be no revenue to the Treasury. My questions to the Minister for Finance are therefore: Is it responsible economic policy to build tax policy on tax bases that it intends to phase out? Could it be called a green tax shift, when it is really just a tax increase affecting rural areas, families with children and jobs? Is it not high time, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to have a climate policy that really has an effect?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-199	Madam President, I would like I have asked if there is any effective climate policy from the Moderate Coalition Party. I hear all the Moderates standing here saying that the government's climate and environmental policies are not effective enough. That is why I asked if there are any effective measures proposed by the Moderates. There was not a single proposal. It's symptomatic. It is pointed out that emissions did not increase very sharply during the biggest financial crisis that has been since the depression, as the Moderates tend to point out when explaining away that it was so bad government finances in 2014. There was low growth in the years that the Alliance government ruled. Then emissions will not increase. We have had very high growth in the years I have been Minister of Finance. Then emissions increase more than otherwise. The question is: Given the underlying development, are there any effective climate proposals from the Moderates? I haven't heard a single one. What we have seen in the moderate budget proposals is that in practice we are turning a blind eye to the climate crisis. That's where the Moderates stand today. Boriana Åberg talks about the Swedish Trade Investigation Institute's so-called evaluation of the chemical tax. It is not an evaluation but a theoretical simulation of what would happen if you change some of the assumptions in the model. It's not an evaluation. Then Boriana Åberg said that the government has opened up to irresponsible immigration. Let me just remind you that it was the Alliance Government's immigration policy that applied in Sweden when we took over government power. The migration policy we had was the legacy of the alliance government. This government has tightened up a lot and changed the entire migration policy so that we now have a completely different order from the one that applied when the Moderates ruled Sweden.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-204	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked the Minister for Social Affairs what proposals she intends to put forward to ensure that competition neutrality and equal conditions prevail between public and independent actors and when these proposals will be presented. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has also asked me why I am waiting for a new investigation when there is already a revised investigation with clear answers and whether I am prepared to urgently take fiscal measures to ensure that competition neutrality prevails in the healthcare sector. As regards the VAT Act, last June the Supreme Administrative Court interpreted the law's rules in the light of EU law (HFD 2018 ref. 41). The Court found that a temporary agency's hiring of health workers is not exempt from VAT. The Tax Agency then issued a position on the hiring of personnel in the health care sector, where the authority talks about how to interpret the judgment. The position has been applied since 1 July by the Swedish Tax Agency. Under the special compensation scheme in place for municipalities and regions, they may apply for a flat-rate reimbursement of VAT costs incurred in the private operation of health care services. The aim is to ensure that VAT costs do not affect whether the region chooses to carry out health care on its own initiative or to procure the business from private carers. However, the level of funding paid by the regions to private carers is determined in the framework of procurement between the parties, not by decision of the parliament or the government. Due to the situation, a temporary state grant of SEK 210 million per year will be paid to the regions over a three-year period in order to compensate the actors affected by increased staffing costs in healthcare. This enables the regions to make it easier for private carers to adapt to the new legal situation. In the field of VAT, it is EU directives that govern what action national legislators can take. Action in breach of EU law can have serious consequences. The question of which measures can be taken therefore needs to be analysed in depth. The government intends to set up a government investigation to review the existence of EU law conditions for introducing an alternative regime that neutralises the current impact for stakeholders. Where they exist, proposals shall also be made.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-209	Madam President, I would like Good continuation of the new year, I wish both the President and the Minister for Finance. I thank the Minister for his reply, although it is not really an answer to the questions I have put to her. In previous interpellation debates, I have asked Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren questions about the lack of competition neutrality that now prevails after the Swedish Tax Agency has introduced a so-called 25 per cent healthcare VAT. The public activities are compensated for these increased costs, while private operators are allowed to take the costs out of equity. At the moment, a transition is taking place within primary care to a good and close care. The Minister for Social Affairs writes to me in reply to a written question that a proposal under the January agreement will be made to ensure that operators, whatever their mode of operation, have a level playing field. Competitive neutrality must exist between public and independent healthcare providers, both in terms of economic conditions, the functioning of licensing and quality requirements. From this promise we have seen nothing. We know that in large parts of the healthcare sector specialist consultants are engaged in shorter periods of time or on a fixed-term basis according to agreements for certain health services or through consultancy agreements. Many of the private health care providers do, but large parts of the public regions also need these services for their special needs. That is why this is a very distorted competitive situation. The public will receive compensation for their increased VAT costs, while other forms of operation will not. The Center Party, which is one of the government's support parties, has been clear that we should have good health care throughout the country. Then it is important that there are both private and public performers. In addition, it is very clear in the January agreement that there should be a level playing field for both private and public health care. The government always highlights the January agreement, which it has with its support parties the Centre Party and the Liberals, and points out that it is an important support document to be used and that it does not want to depart from it. Nevertheless, it is clear in paragraphs 60 to 63 that health care should be operated on equal terms and that competition neutrality should prevail. Now it doesn't look like this. The regions around Sweden compensate their own businesses for the increased VAT costs, but the activities carried out through other forms of operation are left without compensation and without the possibility of charging VAT to the end customer as usual, in this case the patient. It's all strange. Most activities have agreements with the region to operate healthcare, which means that they must relate to the region's regulatory framework, tariffs and guidelines, yet they are distinguished from the possibility of VAT compensation, and I find this remarkable. The Swedish Tax Agency expects other forms of operation to pay VAT from its own capital. This is an absurd situation.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-217	Madam President, I would like I believe that a certain knowledge base would be useful for the debate. Private carers pay VAT in a way that municipalities and regions do not. In order to ensure that municipalities and regions do not, therefore, avoid using private operators, there is compensation primarily for the regions, as it concerns health care in order to be able to have competitive neutrality between public and private activities. There is therefore a system in place to create a level playing field. When the system has been evaluated as to whether VAT compensation is sufficient, it has been concluded that it is rather at the top of the list. This means that it can instead lead to overcompensation if you have many private operators. So there is a system at the bottom of it so that you can have a neutrality. After the judgment, the legal situation changed. This was not based on the fact that the government had made a decision, but was another way of interpreting EU rules. This has had an impact on private carers. In order to ensure that regions would like to continue using private health care providers and to adapt to this, we have introduced a temporary state grant. It shall ensure that regions are able to continue to make use of private operators. On the other hand, the compensation that private performers receive is not something that we in the government or parliament decide, but it is the regions themselves when they procure the business. At the same time, we have set up an investigation to review whether legislative changes can be made. I don't know if the Moderates themselves are in jail with suggestions on how to do this. We do not want to challenge the EU acquis. If we do, individual private companies may be liable for repayment. This could cause many companies to go into the putt, and I am not prepared to contribute to that. On the other hand, we want to look at the legislation to see what opportunities we have to make a different system. However, there is already an opportunity for the regions to provide full compensation to the private operators.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-222	Madam President, I would like I don't really know what to say about a possible lack of knowledge. Regional care buys at least as much of private services as private operators do. There is a clear difference here. The public sector will be compensated for the increase in VAT costs, while private operators will have to pay VAT out of their own capital. What is also a little strange is that the Minister of Finance is clearly hiding behind the EU directive which the Supreme Administrative Court has interpreted and which, since the Swedish Tax Agency has chosen to interpret even narrower, which landed in the so-called healthcare VAT, which was introduced on 1 July last year. The Minister of Finance also claims that a government inquiry must be set up to see if there are any possibilities to change this legislation. Then I would just like to add that such an investigation has already been carried out. SKL – which is now called SKR – and the healthcare companies have conducted such an investigation. It is reviewed by a associate professor in finance law at the School of Economics in Gothenburg. That report makes it very clear that a small change in the legal text could change the situation we have today to the one we had before 1 July last year. This certainly does not conflict with existing EU legislation. Then I can find it very strange that the Supreme Administrative Court in Finland has made a completely different interpretation of this EU directive from what the Supreme Administrative Court in Sweden has done. There must be scope for interpretation here, which means that we can change the law with relatively little means so that competition neutrality and a level playing field are restored, which is not the case today. I cannot help but return to the January agreement, which the government has with its support parties. It constantly highlights the importance of supporting its January agreement, yet in this case it is prepared to easily just shrug its shoulders and violate three of the points of the January agreement. The Government received an announcement from the Riksdag before the summer. The government has done nothing here. I find it regrettable that measures have not been taken to return to a situation where competition neutrality and a level playing field prevail.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-230	Madam President, I would like I certainly do not share the view that the government has done nothing. We have contributed money to the regions so that they can compensate private carers for the new tax burden. We've also set up this investigation. The assessment made by the officials of the Government Office – and they have a very high level of competence in EU legislation – is that more than a simple change is needed to achieve this. It is correct that the Supreme Administrative Court in Sweden has arrived at a different interpretation than the Supreme Administrative Court in Finland. However, the interpretation of the Swedish Court of Justice is made later. We do not know what the Finnish court would decide if they had a new case today. But it is important to me that it is not politicians who rule the courts. That is not something I think politicians should do. We have independent courts. It is also important that there is no chance of taking a chance with EU legislation. If it is the case that the European Court of Justice then finds that the legislation has been infringed, it will be the individual companies that will be liable for repayment. I do not want to see a large number of Swedish health care companies go bankrupt because we have been careless with European legislation. Again, it is important to point out that private operators are paid by the regions regardless of their VAT rate. It is the regions that give them assignments and procure their services. When private operators are compensated by the regions, it is of course up to the regions to decide on the compensation to be paid, and there is, of course, the possibility of providing compensation for the new VAT rules.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-234	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely true that it is the regions that provide compensation to private health care providers. However, it is the Tax Agency that decides on the VAT acquis. It is not the regions that do. The compensation that the Minister for Finance is constantly highlighting is 210 million, to be divided into 21 regions. You don't have to be very intelligent in your mathematics to realize that there won't be much money for each region to compensate for this 25% VAT cost. That is why I feel that it is sad that we cannot take on board the thorough investigation carried out by the healthcare companies and the SKR, which, moreover, is under scrutiny and does not conflict with current EU legislation. Instead of prolonging this process by setting up a new state investigation. We all know that government investigations can take a very long time. This is my final contribution to this interpellation debate. I would like to remind everyone that my interpellations with the Minister of Finance concerned competition neutrality and equal conditions for public and private operators. I have made it clear that there is a great difference today. It is deeply regrettable that the Minister is hiding behind a new state inquiry, which must be set up, instead of taking part in the investigation which is already on the table and which can be used in a legislative amendment. This slows the Minister's work towards inequality in the health and social care sector, a sector which is already on its knees and where we need all the performers to meet the great need for care.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-238	Madam President, I would like Whether there is inequality or not is all about how much compensation these companies receive from the regions. It may even be that, with the compensation they receive from the regions, they will not be undercompensated but overcompensated. Neither you nor I know anything about that, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm. That is one thing I can say. My second observation is that the Moderates are obviously prepared to risk the future of these companies. With all due respect to health professionals, would their EU legislative competence far exceed the overall competence of the Government Office? Would we go against the best recommendation of the Government Office officials and introduce legislation that comes from the health businessmen? In this way, we would risk the future of all private carers. It'll have to stand for the Moderates. The government would never do that.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-240	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked me two questions. The first concerns how I intend to ensure that all citizens, including in the country, are given the opportunity to access high-speed broadband. The second is about what my action plan is to counter new digital exclusion. The starting point for the government is that all of Sweden will have access to fast broadband by 2025. In 2018, over 89 per cent of all households and businesses had access to IT infrastructure that allows speeds of 1 gigabit per second, either through a connection or by being close to fibre networks (the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency's 2019 report). Sweden is a leader in the EU in this respect. In the more sparsely populated parts of the country, it is often associated with greater challenges to achieve market-based broadband expansion. The Government therefore proposes in the budget proposal for 2020 (prop. 2019/ 20:1) an investment of SEK 650 million in a new support for broadband roll-out spread over the period 2020 – 2022. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency (PTS) to implement in 2019 how future support measures in the area of broadband could be designed effectively and intends to return to the issue of the design of the new support for broadband roll-out. On the second issue, the Government considers it important that everyone has the ability and opportunity to contribute to and participate in the digital society. This follows, among other things, from the Government's digitalisation strategy. In 2019, the share of the population that has never used the Internet was only 4 per cent (SCB's 2019 survey). In comparison with other EU countries, Sweden is also at the forefront. At the same time, more effort needs to be made. The Government is therefore undertaking initiatives based on increasing digital skills and reducing digital exclusion, and different solutions are needed for different groups. We have contributed funds to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency for projects aimed at providing people with disabilities or other special needs with support to learn how to use IT and electronic services. The Government has also provided funding to the Internet Foundation to increase digital participation through the establishment of Digidel Centres and commissioned the Royal Library to coordinate education of the country's public librarians in order to promote increased digital competence among the public. Sweden has also adopted a new Act on accessibility of digital public services aimed at promoting the availability of information and services provided digitally by the public administration to all.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-246	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Government for its answer. Sweden is one of the world's most digitised countries. We have and have had companies that have been leading in developing the technology for telephony and digitalisation. In addition, ever since Axel Oxenstierna's time, we have a tradition of being good at organizing our society. It has been a success story for us and has led to our people also outside the big cities being able to communicate and take an active role in society, from the early telephony to today's internet. We may now be losing much of what we have won in the past. Our early development of telephony has led to our population being enlightened and able to communicate easily. Now we are facing a development that in another way leaves people out of it. As digitalisation continues to develop, it leaves all those who do not have a good broadband connection outside. While many smart services are being developed digitally, many cannot participate at all. While we can order medicines, book appointments at a health centre or communicate with healthcare via smart services, many cannot communicate at all. It may be that you can be partially connected. But without robust and reliable broadband, the technology cannot be fully used. Now some municipalities boast that they have a large percentage of their citizens connected. That could be the case, too. However, many live close to the city's bustle, and outside the urban areas, the situation is quite different. Where connectivity is most needed to reduce travel, increase entrepreneurship and increase service and security, there is often no broadband at all. Where it would be very useful to run your business remotely, that is not the case. The Social Democrats, whose mantra has been to reduce class society, are doing exactly the opposite today. This is going to create a new kind of class society. There are people outside our urban areas who are the big losers. The Social Democratic Government is pursuing a policy that is increasingly digitising. That's good. At the same time, however, there is no infrastructure for this. How do you do it? It's like sending mail when the mail isn't in large areas. How can you increasingly put functions at a health centre or a home service via a smart service, when people can't use the technology? At the same time as we wish to use the new technology because it makes us less dependent on the car, we do exactly the opposite. Many copper lines are removed and replaced only by mobile telephony, which does not always work. In addition, it is often the case that it works for a while and is then disconnected, and that means that the matter you are doing is lost and disappears.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-254	Madam President, I would like It was a somewhat strange post by Lotta Olsson. I would just like to remind you that Sweden has the greatest access to high-speed connectivity in the European Union. Eighty-six per cent of Sweden's inhabitants have access to this. We have the largest proportion of citizens who use the internet throughout the EU. I think the latest figure according to the Central Statistical Office is 96%. We have a year's lag in public statistics, but between 2017 and 2018, broadband connections in Swedish rural areas increased by 10 percentage points. In recent years, we have spent SEK 5 billion, i.e. SEK 5 000 million, on creating the EU's best broadband connection. There is no country in the EU that has as much broadband connectivity or high-speed connectivity in sparsely populated areas as Sweden. The government will now, at the beginning of the year, create a whole new support precisely to ensure that those in sparsely populated areas who still lack high-speed connectivity will have access to this. We paid SEK 650 million for this in the last budget. Lotta Olsson can therefore be delighted to live in the country in the world that has both the most digitally competent population and the greatest access to the fastest connection even if you happen to live in sparsely populated areas.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-258	Madam President, I would like As Minister Ygeman says, we are the most digitised population in Europe. But Sweden has also invested in digital services. When you are going to contact your health care centre today, you need to be able to connect digitally. Otherwise, you end up in a very boring situation. We have adapted society to the high degree of digitalisation. I visited Italy a few years ago to look at crisis management there. In Sweden, we are concerned about how to cope with manual services when the digital is down. That problem does not exist if there is an earthquake in Italy because all the manual procedures are still in place. We do not have that in Sweden. You need to get your test results and book your medicine digitally, so we don't have a choice. Developments cannot be mediocre, because because we have pushed the button that makes our health care and a large part of the public's services to citizens must all have this digitally. I live outside the city, and I know some older people who can't have security alarms because the technology doesn't exist. Then you can't have a copper phone instead, because that net is removed. Although we are good in Sweden, we cannot beat our chests when it comes to this. We have made a huge reform, and I think we should surf on it and take advantage of it. But I would like the government to invest instead of investing in high-speed technology in broadband. It would mean so much more savings in transport and allow us to work so much smarter. A lot of people could work from home and so on. Such a bet would be so much better. All of us who have watched old journal films have seen how it was when the telephone came to Sweden. It was not a question of there being someone in a bush somewhere who wasn't there, but really everyone got telephony. It reached out everywhere. This is exactly how I wish the government would now work with broadband and connectivity: Everyone should be able to participate. Then we can also help all our regions with their poor economy and make full use of the technology so that you can reach many old people who are at home and find it difficult to get anywhere. In addition, we have major problems with communications, and it costs quite a lot today to travel by car. Many could use the technology to the full. So keep surfing with this! But we're not supposed to be happy. We're supposed to be even better. I think it goes without saying that some people in society should not be left behind when we have changed technology. If we have changed the technology, the technology must benefit everyone.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-265	Madam President, I would like Sweden was the first country in the world where almost all citizens had access to electricity. We were one of the first countries in the world where all citizens had access to telephony. Sweden will also be one of the first countries, if not the first country, in the world where everyone has access to a fast broadband connection. I believe that both I and Lotta Olsson can celebrate this. But why should this be an argument that Sweden would be the last country in the world to have access to fast train connections? Soon all the countries of Europe have fast rail connections. I believe that the high-speed railway in the world now runs two times around the world. But not a single meter of this is being built in Sweden. If we are going to get the whole of Sweden to develop, we will of course have access to rapid communications regardless of whether they take place with digital highways, motorways, rail or air. A small country in the far north of Europe cannot rest on just one technology.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-268	Madam President, I would like No, we can't rest on a single technique. And no one would be happier than me if the government had finances for all of this. But we see that there is a shortcoming because we are talking about a fairly long perspective before broadband can reach everyone. That is why I see it as a hugely important issue, which is both a climate issue, a citizen's issue and a security issue, that everyone gets this technology. That's what you have to prioritise as number one. I meet a lot of people who would like to live outside the big cities. It is largely the infrastructure and communications that make people living where it is easiest to get anywhere today. If digital technology were everywhere, you might as well be running your business online in the country. That could be a very good bet. We spoke earlier about climate action, and this is also one of the absolute best places to spend money on whether you want to save on travel and increase the number of jobs in our municipalities.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-272	Madam President, I would like It can be reassuring for Lotta Olsson to know that we have invested in the order of SEK 5 billion in broadband expansion. This means that Sweden is the country in the developed world that has the best broadband penetration. It may seem a different advice to give a moderate, but I would ask Lotta Olsson to think about the other party in this, namely the market. The majority of the broadband expansion we have had in Sweden has been market driven, and it will continue to be market driven. We need public intervention, but we must not forget that we must also have market-driven development. I look forward to every household in Sweden having access to high-speed connectivity within this decade.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-275	Madam President, I would like Magdalena Schröder has asked me and the government what measures the government will take to ensure that the tax resources allocated to aid, both bilaterally and multilaterally, do not disappear in corruption because of the existence of numerous cases of corruption in development cooperation. Corruption can and should never be accepted. Continuing the fight against corruption is a key element in reducing poverty and achieving the global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set out in Agenda 2030. It is a matter that I and the government have a high priority. In the implementation of the aid, the Government calls for good control and action against corruption in multilateral organisations as well as in other types of aid. Sweden and Sida are engaged in a close dialogue with their partners and continuously follow up the aid with field visits, audits and evaluations. In 2020, the Government will continue to strengthen Sida's resources to combat corruption effectively. During this year, Sida will thus be able to increase the number of controllers in the business, both in the field and in Stockholm. Sida's corruption policy is always to prevent, never accept, always act, always report and always inform when suspected of corruption. Sida's employees and partner organisations are obliged to report suspicions of corruption to Sida's special corruption investigators. Sida continuously reviews its own processes based on results from the monitoring of operations and as operations change. By providing additional resources and focus, it is not unlikely that more cases of corruption will be revealed. Aid operates in societies where corruption is often systematic, but that is also where aid is most needed.
i-XSgkmGYzAyfZU1Vv2N7fiS	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Peter Eriksson, for your answer! I do not doubt for a second either Peter Eriksson, Sida's or, for that matter, the whole aid industry's willingness to combat corruption. Sida refers on its own website to new research that shows that corruption has more serious and far-reaching consequences than previously thought. Most of all, poor people are affected. Although Peter Eriksson in his answer lets us know that much is being done, the reality shows that it is not enough. Recently, as the Minister for Development mentioned, there have been reports of a series of corruption scandals in the world of aid. Recently, Swedish Radio reported that 7 percent of all aid in the health sector is believed to disappear in corruption and bribery. Prior to that, there have been reports of aid organisations in Afghanistan having to pay tax to Taliban in order to operate in the Taliban-led areas. The management of Unrwa has been accused of friendship corruption and of spending money on a number of luxury trips. Peter Eriksson mentioned Sida's anti-corruption rule – always preventing, never accepting, always informing. You have to ask yourself if that's enough. In November 2018, it was reported about the organisation ICTSD, which received nearly SEK 200 million in assistance through Sida. According to an investigation by the British authorities, the mismanagement of the organization's finances was so severe that it bordered on crime. Sida then chose to end the cooperation with the organisation but refrained from making a police report and recover the tax funds that have already been paid out. This example is remarkable, both because it was not Sida itself but the British authorities that discovered the irregularities and because Sida chose to act as they did and not recover the money already paid out. This damages confidence in the state administration in general and of course in Sida and the development industry in particular. Madam President, I would like I must highlight the obvious: if you do what you have always done, then it will also be as it has always been. Therefore, I would like to ask Peter Eriksson if he sees any system errors in aid that impair results and make it difficult for the long-term. For example, there is research that shows that Sida staff feels pressure to get money away by the end of the year to reach the 1% target, which of course is not a desirable way to feel about taxpayers' money. For example, does the Minister of Development see a problem with the budgeting principle that we have for aid today? Does he see that one per cent of the goal creates twitchiness and pressure to spend money properly, which of course can lead to both more risky and less good projects?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-291	Madam President, I would like Well, I understand that the purpose of the interpellation is really to try to talk about aid being given too much money. Maybe that's what it was all about. If we are conducting the discussion on aid more broadly and more generally, I think that one important thing, not only in terms of corruption but also in the public debate, is to be careful. On the issues raised here by Magdalena Schröder, there are a lot of errors. She says, for example, that 7% of all aid in the health sector disappears in corruption and bribery and that Swedish Radio has reported on it. It's much worse than that. It is the WHO that has produced a report that shows that 7% of all funding for the entire health sector worldwide is corruption, fraud and other things. It is a completely different, much bigger issue than a question of aid. I can imagine that in those countries where we operate, where international aid is provided, the proportion may be even greater than that, because these are countries that often do not work, where individuals take over entirely and where corruption in many cases dominates widely. Corruption is a poison that destroys tremendously much of the opportunities for ordinary people, for poor people, to function and live a decent life at all. The big issue in terms of corruption in the world is that we should be able to get societies that work, grow and develop. It is also the main focus for me – that Swedish aid will help reduce the risks and problems of corruption in the world when we work in Eastern Europe and Africa as well as in Latin America and elsewhere. Our systems and methods we work with will develop and become better at counteracting corruption, and in the drive for democracy that we are now pushing hard, corruption issues will be central. Some other tasks are wrong in another direction, such as paying tax to Taliban aid organisations in Afghanistan. That may happen, but we see no sign that any Swedish aid organisation would pay tax to Taliban. Everything indicates that this is not the case. Thing, which is the major Swedish aid organisation in Afghanistan, claims that no tax has ever been paid to Taliban. They have received such demands in a few cases, but then they have ceased their activities and then been able to restart them when the population has demanded that they return. When it comes to the African Development Fund and the problems that were there, Sida itself discovered the errors through its audit. When it comes to the second sustainability organisation to which Magdalena Schröder refers, Sida has actually demanded a refund. I think these cases show that it works. When you discover something, you make reasonable demands for it to work.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-301	Madam President, I would like I cannot interpret Peter Eriksson's response in any other way than that he does not see the need for system reforms for aid. I'm sorry about that. In addition to the obvious fact that corruption in aid means that taxpayers' money does not go to what they are intended for, there is relatively little research into the impact of corruption on aid delivery. I asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to look into the corruption within the aid. They have referred, among other things, to the German economic professor Georg Cremer, who is one of those who has deepened the subject. In the book Corruption & Development Aid, he analyses how corruption affects. One of the conclusions of that book is that in countries where corruption is high and where the government's policy is not geared towards poverty reduction, aid risks keeping this government under arms and allowing scope to continue a non-development policy. Anti-corruption is therefore essential if aid is to do what it is intended for, namely lift people out of poverty and oppression. Madam President, I would like Instead of taking responsibility for the corruption scandals that have taken place – I refer, among other things, to data from Swedish Radio – and welcome a factual debate on how we can make aid better with more results and less corruption, Peter Eriksson says that I come up with errors and have, among other things, appealed to the media for better monitoring of aid. During one of Parliament's Q & A sessions in November, Peter Eriksson also accused a journalist at Expressen of having a political agenda with his review report on aid to Afghanistan. During Question Time, Peter Eriksson said:"The sweeping arguments that come out in the article about this and that the Moderates are now forwarding are instead about a campaign to undermine confidence in aid. That is my firm opinion. ..................................................... My colleague Hans Wallmark has asked Peter Eriksson a written question about his statement on improving the media coverage of aid, but yesterday, when I last checked, I still did not get an answer. Madam President, I would like I am happy to give the Minister for Development the opportunity to explain what he meant by his statement that there is a need for better monitoring of aid and greater support for the political idea of a target of 1% of GDP in aid. How is this to happen in the light of the announced pro-democracy offensive?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-308	Madam President, I would like I think that Magdalena Schröder should be quite pleased that we are now doing anti-corruption work much harder than any government has done in the past and that we are now spending much more resources on strengthening this work. Sida has received 175 million more in this year's budget precisely to be able to hire people and have better methods and tools to reduce the risk of corruption, both in its own work and also to reduce corruption in the countries where we work and participate. I believe that the reason why Magdalena Schröder is not at all satisfied that we are now highlighting and pushing this more also in the drive for democracy is that this is not about the issue in itself. Instead, we are talking about the Moderates' campaign to reduce aid and spend money on completely different things, such as tax cuts for those of us who are well off. I think it is a problem if you want to use aid money for completely different purposes, when we need the money for international solidarity work. The number of refugees in the world is greater than ever before. We have many wars and conflicts around the world. Climate issues require more, and we are also investing more in this area than before. Therefore, I hope that the Moderates are also prepared to change and not to be as introverted as they seem to have become in recent times, but to see the world to a greater extent. See the outside world and realise that we will benefit from solidarity in the outside world in the long term! You shouldn't just try to close your eyes and look away when nasty things happen.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-312	Madam President, I would like I have full respect for the fact that Peter Eriksson and the Green Party want to spend more money on aid. The Moderates want to spend a little less money on aid in favour of other things, such as the justice system. The Swedish budget is not infinite, and we have different priorities. As far as the exact amount of money we are going to spend on aid is concerned, we can agree that we do not agree. But we should be in full agreement that the money we actually spend on aid should go to the right things. That's where we'll be in control. That's where we're gonna have influence. The money we spend on aid should not disappear in corruption. The fact that there have been so many corruption scandals shows that control has not been sufficient. That is not acceptable. Peter Eriksson should welcome a debate on how to improve aid. The latest reports on corruption scandals clearly demonstrate the need for more focused aid. The research that employees at Sida feel a payout pressure shows the need for reforms to change that situation. Madam President, I would like Peter Eriksson has said on several occasions that he gives this issue a high priority. That's not enough. Peter Eriksson must also take political responsibility and deliver the reforms needed for change.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-316	Madam President, I would like I also hope that the opposition will see when we make major and important changes that have not been made by previous governments and that it will also recognise that we are doing more and better the anti-corruption work than it has done in the past. If you see what we're doing right now, we can get along. I don't mind if we discuss corruption issues. I think it's very important. This is one of the major and important issues in the world at all, and if aid is to reach the poorest people, we must also ensure that corruption is reduced in the countries in which we operate. That is the great resistance everywhere.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-318	Madam President, I would like Yasmine Posio has asked me how the government works to provide support to Russian civil society organisations, whether the government will require Russia to respect the rights of human rights defenders to seek and obtain funding, and whether Sweden should engage with those who research the crimes of Stalinism and are subjected to persecution by the Russian regime. Sweden pursues a clear and principled policy towards Russia and will continue to regularly address human rights violations in international fora such as the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe – OSSE – and the Council of Europe. We are and will continue to be a driving force in the European Union for respect for human rights to remain a key element in shaping relations with Russia and to support the five guiding principles of the EU's relationship with Russia, where contacts and support to Russian civil society are an important component of you. Sweden also provides comprehensive bilateral support to Russian civil society. Much of the support is directed towards organisations active in the field of human rights. One of the objectives is to strengthen the capacity of relevant actors to provide independent information to the Russian public and to raise awareness of human rights. Part of this work is to identify and inform about the crimes of Stalinism. When I visited Saint Petersburg last spring, I met representatives of civil society, including the Memorial organisation, who are working on research into the political repression that took place in the Soviet Union during Stalin's time. Soon the government will adopt a new strategy for Sweden's support for democracy, human rights and the environment in Russia for the period 2020 – 2024. The strategy is estimated to comprise SEK 390 million for the entire period. Cooperation with Russia in the framework of this strategy shall promote democratic development in the country and contribute to strengthening freedom of expression and respect for human rights and the rule of law. Oppositionists in Russia operate under difficult conditions, and it is important for the outside world to show their support. We continue to call on Russian representatives to guarantee their citizens rights in accordance with Russia's own constitution and international law commitments. It underlines the importance of a judicial system that acts professionally and independently and enjoys the confidence of its citizens.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-325	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, for your answer. Since Vladimir Putin withdrew from office in 2012, Russia has adopted several laws that restrict civil society's ability to operate freely. The most famous is probably the so-called agent law, which forces opinion-forming organisations with foreign funding to register as foreign agents. This means that they get an official stamp with a very negative ring – in practice they are equated with spies. So far, the law on agents has been applied primarily to organisations that work to strengthen respect for human rights. Another amendment has broadened the scope of the concept of treason. Any activity deemed to be against Russia's security by the authorities may constitute a basis for prosecution. These two laws violate both the ECHR and several UN resolutions which guarantee the freedom of association and establish the right of human rights defenders to seek foreign funding without incurring reprisals or discrimination. The freedom of demonstration is also severely restricted, making it difficult for the people to come out and express their views. Russia is today a security policy threat, first and foremost to all those in Russia who oppose the regime or who do not fit in with the society that Putin wants to build. For Russian LGBTQ people, feminists, indigenous representatives, environmental movements and leftist activists, their own regime is a daily security threat. Russia's imperialist policy also poses a direct threat to the population of several neighbouring countries, mainly Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova and the countries of Central Asia. For a few years, many, especially from the right, have been calling out that the Russian is coming to make greater efforts to increase militarisation. We in the Left Party believe that the best way to increase security in the world is to work for free countries where people can develop into those they want to be. Therefore Jonas Sjöstedt, Håkan Svenneling and I chose to make a study visit to Russia to meet civil society organisations that work with human rights in different ways. We also visited Gazeta Novaja – one of the few free media remaining in Russia – where internationally recognized journalist Anna Politkovskaja worked until she was murdered in 2006. All organisations, regardless of direction, witnessed the difficulties of working in today's Russia. At the same time, the Russian people clearly show that they are not satisfied with the society in which they live, as activism increases. More people choose to get involved. Then we must support those organisations that want to work for a free and democratic Russia. It's our best protection to create a safe environment. That is why I wanted to find out whether Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde intends to work for Sweden to provide increased support to Russian civil society organisations when they are forced to operate under much more pressure. It is certainly a good thing that the government is increasing the funding for Russia in its new strategy. That will be about 78 million SEK per year. But between 2004 and 2006, Sweden gave 100 million a year, and today the needs are even more urgent. We in the Left Party are increasing support for Russian human rights defenders in our 2020 budget exercise. The government is making a different priority. But how will Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde act in the future, in future budgets? And even if calls are good, I wonder whether the Minister will operate in more ways in the demand that Russia should respect the rights of human rights defenders to seek and receive funding under international conventions.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-334	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer given, and I would also like to thank my colleague, Yasmine Posio, for bringing about this interpellation. Two weeks ago it was exactly 20 years ago that Vladimir Putin was appointed President of Russia. Boris Jeltsin stepped off the stage, and after this pioneer we did not really know what was coming. Now we know. The curtain goes down for the democratic experiment in Russia. Yes, Madam President, I venture to call it just an experiment. For democracy is always an attempt that is never more than it is allowed to be. Russian development is more than tragic. We have already highlighted some aspects of this debate, but we have not mentioned the aggravating circumstances under which many religions now live. Allow me to give an exposé with information from the Norwegian-Danish-Swedish initiative Forum 18, which in its name is based on Article 18 of the UN Convention on Human Rights. This particular article guarantees freedom of religion. Unfortunately, Russia cannot guarantee its citizens this human right. The Russian Pentecostal Theological University lost its rights in October 2018. In January 2019, the Russian Baptists received their theological seminar in Moscow for 60 days and were banned from accepting new students. In September last year, the town of Samara, about 100 km from Moscow, made it clear that the local Pentecostal church would be demolished, despite the fact that its members had used the church as a meeting place for more than 20 years and that the church was already granted the land in 1997. The authorities explained that the congregation had to pay for the destruction of its own church. These are some examples of how the Russian authorities are hitting two religious communities that are traditionally strong in our own country and indeed part of Swedish civil society. But the Russian authority does not only strike a specific group of believers. Several religions have faced obstacles when they have applied to build a new place of worship. Both Muslims and Buddhists as well as supporters of Hare Krishna testify to how they have been denied legal rights to land or had a building permit withdrawn when they started the construction work. In May 2019 bulldozers were used to demolish a mosque in the city of Tjernjachovsk in Kaliningrad, just across the Baltic Sea. But in Russia we notice not only obstacles to gathering in a local but also the notorious anti-missionary law, which forbids believers to publicly speak of their beliefs. Faith is a natural part of civil society. We know this from our own experience in Sweden. In the Bill 2009/ 10:55 A policy for civil society says this: a tradition of democratic forms of meeting developed, which spread from the free-cry and sobriety movements to the labour movement. This is what it looked like in our country, but the Russian people have not experienced this. Thirty years ago the Soviet Union still existed, resting on the Tsarist autocracy. Democracy takes time to grow. Madam President, I would like I would like the Foreign Minister to respond to how Sweden wants to support the religious communities in Russia when they are forced to operate under increasing pressure.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-345	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Yasmine Posio and Marcus Jonsson for raising these important issues about the situation in Russia. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs' report on human rights and the rule of law in Russia gives a clear picture of how we view developments in that country. We are following the domestic policy developments in Russia closely and are well aware of how the democratic space in the country is shrinking, while civil society is under increasing pressure. This also applies to the religions. The run-up to the regional elections of 8 September was another example of how opposition politicians are denied the opportunity to stand as candidates and how popular discontents are met with mass repression and violence by the police. I myself publicly criticised the police raids that took place against opponents around Russia a few days after the elections and have noted with great concern the recent developments in which Russian and foreign human rights organisations were forced to cease their work. The legislation on foreign agents, referred to by Yasmine Posio, has also recently been extended to include individuals and not just organisations. It will deter even more from journalistic scrutiny of those in power, which is an inalienable component of any democratic society. Sweden is pursuing a clear and principled policy towards Russia, in which, in our bilateral contacts, we consistently call on them to guarantee the rights of their citizens in accordance with Russia's own constitution and international commitments. Our report on human rights states in black and white that Russia cannot be regarded as a functioning rule of law. We provide comprehensive bilateral support to Russian civil society. Soon the government will adopt a new strategy for Sweden's support for democracy, human rights and the environment in Russia for the period 2020 – 2024. It comprises SEK 390 million, which is approximately SEK 80 million per year. Cooperation with Russia in the framework of this strategy shall promote democratic development in the country and contribute to strengthening freedom of expression and respect for human rights and the rule of law. We are actively participating in the forums where democracy and human rights in Russia are discussed, including the Council of Europe. We also give concrete support to a wide range of organisations. We want to strengthen the capacity of civil society and other relevant actors and to safeguard the principles of the rule of law and a better understanding of this among the Russian public. We want to strengthen the capacity of civil society and independent media, provide the public with independent information and increase knowledge of civil and political rights. We also want to strengthen the capacity of civil society and other relevant actors and to work against discrimination and gender equality. We want a better understanding of the value of equal treatment among the public. Madam President, I would like Already during my first week as Foreign Minister, I had the opportunity to meet Nordic and Baltic colleagues in Reykjavík and Helsinki, including our well-known and unchanged positions regarding the human rights situation in Russia. We also regularly present our views in international fora, such as the OSSE and the Council of Europe.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-353	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Marcus Jonsson, who also raised freedom of religion, which is also under Putin's increasing pressure! Yes, it will be very interesting to follow up on this and see if the government will really put effort into increasing the security of people in the outside world or whether you will follow the doomsday prophecies of the right through increased militarization. Madam President, I would like One of the places we visited during our trip to Russia was Sandarmokh, a place of mass graves for those who fell victim to the terror of Stalinism. One of them is my grandfather's brother Matti Posio. The family thought he had tried to go to America with a ship that would then have perished, and thus the family thought he was dead. But it turned out that he had gone from poor northern Finland to the Soviet Union to work in the forest. In Petrozavodsk, Matti got married and had two children before he was considered anti-Stalinism and sentenced to death by neck shots. My family had not been told that Matti had actually gone to the Soviet Union or that he had had children unless the Russian historian, researcher and human rights activist Jurij Dmitrijev had researched the documents that still exist. Thanks to Dmitrijev's work, I was able to meet Matti grandchildren and great-grandchildren in Petrozavodsk. Unfortunately, Dmitrijev has been hit by another strategy used by the Russian regime in its attempts to stifle the opposition and the struggle of human rights defenders, and that strategy is false accusations. Dmitrijev has been active for some twenty years in the prestigious human rights organization Memorial, which works with research and publication of material on the totalitarian history of the Soviet Union and monitoring human rights in today's Russia and in the former Soviet states. The operation, which began in the 1990s, has for some years been facing strong opposition from the authorities, and Memorial, along with a wide range of other organisations, has been labeled as foreign agents. On 16 December 2016, Dmitrijev, formally accused of the spread of child pornography, was arrested. Several experts consider the accusation politically justified. The scientists who work to expose and expose the crimes of Stalinism thus live under constant threat from the Russian state power. Another highly noted political prisoner is the Chechen human rights activist Oyub Titijev. He was arrested in 2018 and sentenced to four years in prison for alleged possession of drugs. He himself believes that the drugs were placed with him by the police. He was released prematurely in the summer of 2019, indicating that false accusations have actually been used. We had the opportunity to meet Oyub Titijev in Moscow, and he expressed great concern and frustration at the repression that Putin is driving. Madam President, I would like The use of false accusations and propaganda by the Russian regime against individual scientists and activists considered a threat to the regime needs to be made visible and opposed. By following up and paying attention to these cases, the outside world can reduce the impact of this strategy. Here, the presence and attention of foreign embassies can play a very important role. We in the Left Party believe that the Swedish Embassy should monitor politically motivated legal proceedings against researchers and activists. My question to Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde is: Will the Minister work to ensure that Sweden is committed to those who are researching the crimes of Stalinism and who are being persecuted by the Russian regime and, if so, in what different ways?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-364	Madam President, I would like It is positive to hear the commitment expressed by Ann Linde and about the government's forthcoming efforts. It is my personal and firm conviction that democratisation comes from below. I am supported in this view when I see what Swedish history looks like. Seven decades before women were given the right to vote through legislation in this Parliament, women had the right to vote in the free church in Sweden. On September 21, 1848, women were given the right to vote in Sweden's first Baptist assembly, which also became the first democratic association in our country. Men and women were equal here, and the decisions to be made were made by voting where each person had a vote of his own. Madam President, I would like Conscious of that very significance, I would like to focus a little on how religions have played a role in our country. I do not think that role is limited to Sweden. I believe that role can also exist in Russian society. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether the Swedish Government would consider giving the missions that we have abroad instructions to include an analysis of the status of religious freedom in the countries that are being examined in the so-called MR reports – human rights reports – which the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned earlier. Madam President, I would like I would also like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if Sweden would consider working with Swedish actors within the Swedish civil society that has an ongoing work and exchange with their Russian counterparts.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-368	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Yasmine Posio for sharing her personal story here in Parliament, because that is precisely what shows that what we are doing is about real people and their fate. That's what we're all trying to do. In order to demonstrate to Russian civil society and the Russian authorities how important we feel about these issues, sent personnel from our embassy in Moscow and from the Consulate General in St Petersburg regularly attend trials in which democracy and human rights defenders are brought to justice. For example, our staff were in place when it came to Oyub Titijev. This was also followed very closely by the embassy until he was released on parole this summer. I visited Russia myself in June 2016 to participate in St Petersburg's Economic Forum and met representatives of the human rights organisations, including Memorial, who spoke about their work. After all, we are giving support to civil society organisations. This made a very strong impression on me. It was not only Memorial but also LGBTQ organisations, which are in an extremely difficult situation in Russia now. At the end of November, our Embassy in Moscow organised an event focusing on gender equality and women's enjoyment of human rights. There several Swedish MPs participated as experts, as well as Russian representatives. Supporting and defending a wide range of civil society organisations and actors in order to strengthen democracy and people's participation is a long-standing priority for Sweden. We are now doing this with renewed vigour since we have launched the "Drive for Democracy" initiative. Individuals and groups are often part of civil society and champions of marginalised and vulnerable groups. Therefore, human rights defenders have a central role to play in establishing viable societies. In our MR reports, we address freedom of religion. So I think we are already dealing with the issue raised by Marcus Jonsson. We do not give specific support to religious communities, but we support religious freedom in Russia in various ways.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-374	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ann Linde, for your answer! Now that we are nearing the end of this interpellation debate, I also intend to come to the end of our Russian journey, which in fact proved to be the beginning of more contacts with both new family and Swedish and Russian activists. The book fair in my hometown Gothenburg took place right after I got home, and at a meeting Swedish civil society actors, Swedish and Russian journalists and writers and I gathered. There was talk about the need for inter-folk contacts and meetings and how important it is to get a nuanced picture of what is happening, not only for us in Sweden who are fed the Russian threat but also for those in Russia who are fed a distorted picture of how it is in Sweden today. It is through human meetings that we find that most of us are basically quite similar. We want to live in societies where we have a balance between work and leisure and where we can raise our children to free, independent, reflective, equal and compassionate people – sustainable societies, where we can express ourselves freely and where we protect each other. It is through human encounters that we realize that it is not ordinary people who want to go to war, but it is men with power who, without themselves risking their lives, send people into the field. The Left Party wants to see developments that increase inter-ethnic contacts, for example through town twinning. We also want to enable increased mobility for the Russian population, among other things by making it easier for Russian students to study in Sweden. This brings me to my final question, Madam President: how does Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ann Linde, view inter-ethnic exchanges, and does the government intend to do something to increase exchanges between Russians and Swedes?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-379	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Yasmine Posio, for launching this interpellation debate! To begin with the last question, I am in every way very much in favour of inter-people exchanges. I made my first trip to the then Soviet Union in 1984 and got contacts that I then kept for several decades, with people who were at the time young but then got a little older. I believe that organisations in the various countries can be the most important thing for a vibrant civil society and for sharing experiences. But I would also like to say that the organisations within the OSSE, the Council of Europe, the European Union and so on can be used. For example, in 2018, 16 countries took the initiative to activate what we call the Moscow Mechanism. As a result, an independent expert delegation travelled to Russia to investigate allegations of persecution of LGBT people in Chechnya. We drew attention to this issue in connection with the Human Dimension Implementation Meeting, which is Europe's largest human rights conference and for two weeks in September, around 1 500 government representatives, international experts and representatives of civil society gathered. I believe that it is precisely cooperation between government representatives and representatives of various organisations and experts that allows pressure to be put on these issues. Madam President, I would like No political government or society has the right to deny its citizens the right to speak and think freely. This also includes persons who, as researchers, must be allowed to engage in their activities regardless of academic field and without fear of reprisals. I am sure that we in the government and you in Parliament share the same view on these issues.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-383	Madam President, I would like Lars Adaktusson has asked me whether I am prepared to demand that the Iraqi Government take responsibility for and actively protect its country's Christian communities. Lars Adaktusson has also asked me whether I support the creation of a province followed by political autonomy for the Assyrians, Syrians and Chaldeans of the Nineves plain. I share Lars Adaktusson's position on the importance of protecting Iraq's religious and ethnic minorities, including the Christian population. Christian groups living in Mosul and in the plain of Nineves were hit very hard during Daish, and many have still not been able to return home. Responsible for the serious crimes committed by Daish against minorities during the conflict must be held accountable, and Sweden has acted clearly in order for accountability to come about. Peaceful coexistence requires continued political and economic reforms to create a more inclusive society and a stronger rule of law that protects vulnerable groups. Unfortunately, discrimination against religious minorities is widespread in Iraq even after the defeat of Daish. In meetings with representatives of the Iraqi Government and when Iraq is being discussed in the UN and the EU, Sweden actively highlights the importance of freedom of religion and belief and of reducing the vulnerability of ethnic and religious minorities. The issue of minority rights, for example, was discussed during the Iraqi Foreign Minister's visit to Sweden in May. The Embassy of Sweden in Baghdad also conducts a regular dialogue with Christian communities in Iraq to keep up to date with their situation. Sweden's envoy for intercultural and interreligious dialogue visited Iraq in April and held meetings with representatives of the Chaldean and Assyrian churches. As mentioned by Lars Adaktusson in his question, the humanitarian and security situation in the areas where Iraq's Christian communities previously lived remains difficult. The situation has allowed very few internally displaced persons from these areas to return to their former homes. Sweden's development cooperation with Iraq focuses in particular on reconstruction and stabilisation efforts in areas liberated from Daish, including the Nineves plain, which is home to many Assyrians, Syrians and Chaldeans. The development cooperation comprises a total of SEK 1 billion for the period 2017 – 2021. A long-term political solution is needed to the problems which form the basis of the difficult situation of Assyrians, Syrians and Chaldeans who have their own neighbourhood in the part of Iraq that is the so-called disputed area. An agreement on the disputed area is one of the most important outstanding issues in a political process that must be resolved by the Iraqis themselves within the framework of the Iraqi Constitution. In order to enable return and reconstruction, an agreement between the Federal Government of Baghdad and the Provincial Government of Erbil on the matter of responsibility for the administration, governance and security of the Sinjar area is particularly important in the short term.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-390	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. I welcome the fact that the Government expresses the seriousness of the situation for the Christian communities and that the government is prepared – as I see it – to raise the issues with the political leaders in Baghdad. Unfortunately, this is not something that can wait or be postponed to the future. We know that there is a politically unstable situation at the moment, but the repression of Assyrians/Syrians/Caldeans is taking place at this time. Ethnic cleansing forces Christian families to flee daily. Abandoning your homeland, where ancestors have cultivated the land and where family and friends have lived for generations, is no simple matter. It destroys life, and it overturns the life that has been laboriously built up with family, work, and security. This is what we saw when hundreds of thousands of Christians fled the Islamic State in a short time in 2014. The emptying of Mosul and the plain of Nineves' Christian population meant countless tragedies and severe human suffering. On an overall level, the abuse involved the commission of the worst and most abominable crimes of international law. Systematically, IS carried out a genocide against Christians and Yazidians. Madam President, I would like Today, the immediate threat from IS is not as imminent, but the view of Christians and Yazidians as unfaithful and thus undesirable persists. With the silent approval of the government in Baghdad, what is currently known as a demographic change is under way. In towns and villages on the plain of Nineves, population composition changes. Where Christian families have lived, Muslim families move in. In several places where Assyrians/Syrians/Caldés historically and for a long time have been in the majority, Shia muslim Shabaker takes over. In parallel, as we know, Iran is strengthening its influence. The Tehran dictatorship regime today controls a Shia-Muslim militia force in Iraq with 60 000 - 70 000 soldiers. After a number of incidents in which Christians have been attacked, there is great distrust of the Iran-backed militia, and many who have recently returned to the Nineves plain decide to leave again. The responsibility for halting this serious development lies with the political leadership in Baghdad. The Iraqi Government has the opportunity to take the individual measure that would currently mean most to the Christian communities, namely to upgrade the Nineves plain to province and give Assyrians/Syrians/Caldés the right to political self-government. This is politically entirely possible, and it is within the framework of the Iraqi Constitution. A decision in this direction was also made in early 2014, but it has never been implemented. I would like to ask the following questions, Ann Linde: What is the reason why the Swedish Government does not want to support political self-government clearly? Why not face the victims of IS genocide on a crucial issue for them?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-397	Madam President, I would like The Christian population from the part of Iraq that is part of the so-called disputed area is severely affected by political disunity over control of this area. The lack of clarity contributes to the continued fragility of the security situation and to significant obstacles to humanitarian aid and reconstruction efforts in the Nineves plain. As I mentioned in my previous reply, a long-term political solution is needed to the problems preventing the Christian population and other minority groups from returning home. To ensure long-term peaceful coexistence, an inclusive political process is needed for national reconciliation and for the implementation of reforms leading to full respect for human rights without discrimination. Such a process is also of great importance in order to resolve the overall question of control over the disputed area and to establish legal governance of these areas with the support of the population. Following last year's change of government in Iraq, negotiations between the Federal Government of Baghdad and the Provincial Government of E rbil have had a renewed momentum. However, the improvement of relations between Baghdad and Erbil has unfortunately not resulted in any real breakthroughs that have brought about a change in the situation on the ground. The international community can support the national Iraqi dialogue not least through the UN operation in Iraq, UNami. Unami has as one of its tasks to help Iraq in a process of resolving conflicts on the disputed areas. During our time in the Security Council, Sweden played a role in this area, and we have since continued to support the active engagement of the UN in Iraq on reconciliation and peace-building. The Government continuously calls on both the Federal Government of Baghdad and the Provincial Government of Erbil to engage in dialogue and continued efforts to resolve outstanding issues such as the governance of the disputed area. For example, Prime Minister Löfven raised the issue of the Baghdad – Erbil dialogue at a February meeting with the President of Iraq. The Government has also, in contacts with Iraq, including in connection with Iraq's Foreign Minister's visit to Sweden in May, raised in particular the issue of the importance of establishing a common governance and stable security structure in the area around the city of Sinjar as soon as possible. It is important to stress that control of the disputed areas is not just a matter between Baghdad and Erbil. The minority groups, such as the Christian population, who have their own neighbourhoods in that area, must have their interests covered and their voices heard in the discussions on the future of the area.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-403	Madam President, I would like It sounds a bit like we are not so far apart in this area of political self-government. Yet it sounds to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is not possible to express support for self-government from the Swedish side. In this context, it is important to emphasise that what is at stake here is that there is room in Iraq's constitution to upgrade the historical areas around the Nineves plain to a province and give the populations there autonomy. It is not, therefore, a division of Iraq that we are talking about; it is self-government that is regulated in the Constitution. I would also like to emphasise that, across Europe, among Sweden's like-minded countries, there is an understanding of the importance of such a decision. In October 2016, the European Parliament adopted a resolution expressing clear support for the formation of a province-wide Nineves Plain. The resolution highlights what is called the right of indigenous communities to security, protection and self-government. The European Parliament calls on the EU Member States, including Sweden, to support the Iraqi Government in the formation of a province on the plain of Nineves. Madam President, I would like What we are talking about here are tens of thousands of people who belong to the weakest and most vulnerable. What we are talking about are people who, although they have experienced this tremendous thing, have kept the hope that one day they will be able to return. Today, we are forced to note that hopes have been disappointed. Despite some flashes of light in the form of the reconstruction of homes, infrastructure and other things that were demolished by IS, the dark cloud is hanging over the Nineves plain. Of 125 000 Assyrians / Syrians / Chaldeans who lived there before IS pulled out, barely half were able to return. Of Mosul's 200,000 Christians, zero has been able to return. The reconstruction process is too slow, but above all there is a lack of security and the ability to decide for yourself on the future. I believe that the Swedish Government, with – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said – good relations with Iraq and extensive development cooperation could use the resulting influence to support the Christian indigenous people politically more clearly and concretely. On the basis of what she has said here, the Minister for Foreign Affairs seems inclined that there will be no support for self-government. Then an important question is hanging in the air: What is the government's message to the Christian and Yazidian groups if there is no support for self-government? They want nothing more than to return to their historic homeland, but they cannot because of persecution and ethnic cleansing.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-410	Madam President, I would like The issue of increased autonomy of certain groups in Iraq is a matter for the people of Iraq to decide within the framework of an inclusive democratic process that respects international law, human rights and the rule of law. It is also important that the disputed areas are not just a matter of discussion between Baghdad and Erbil, but that minority groups should be able to make their voices heard in the discussions. We believe that it is extremely important that there should be an inclusive and pluralist society in Iraq, that there should be a strong rule of law and that there should be strong state institutions. Sweden is engaged in a continuous dialogue with Iraq on minorities, including, of course, the political representation and rights of Christian minorities. But again: it is essential that there is a broad dialogue with all parties to continue reconciliation and to resolve outstanding issues surrounding the contentious area. As Lars Adaktusson stressed, the escalation between the United States and Iran has affected instability in Iraq and both the population of Iraq and the population of the whole region. The security situation risks becoming even worse if the international troops set up to fight Daish need to be withdrawn. I have made all these points when I have spoken to my Iraqi colleague, Foreign Minister al-al-Hakim. Among other things, minority groups would be very vulnerable if there were renewed sharp attacks from Daish.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-413	Madam President, I would like Sometimes in debates, different opinions are refreshing. In other contexts, differences of opinion are more regrettable. That's what this feels like when we talk about this. The fact is that without joint political support from the outside world, the Christians of Iraq and the Middle East will disappear. Just as Jewish life has long been wiped out in the Arab world and in Muslim majority societies, Christendom is in danger of soon belonging to history. Church bells that have been ringing for 1,700 years are at risk of silence and churches and historical sites decaying. For the thousands who are directly affected by this, the outside world has a great responsibility. This also applies to us in Sweden. The Christian Democrats have criticised the government in recent years for not looking at this situation with enough seriousness. We have criticised the fact that the persecution of Christians was not mentioned at any time in the foreign policy declaration during the last parliamentary term, in other words during the period of IS genocide in Iraq and Syria. We stand for that criticism. We think it is justified. Madam President, I would like Tomorrow the organization Open Doors presents its annual World Watch List. It is a list of the 50 countries in the world where the persecution of Christians is the worst. Why not allow that report to be the starting point for more active government action on the global problem of the persecution of Christians right now?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-417	Madam President, I would like I agree with Lars Adaktusson that the persecution of Christians is a problem. This applies not only in Iraq but also elsewhere. However, if we now concentrate precisely on the events in Iraq, we are following them very closely, as well as the consequences for the various communities. Iraq has a long history of ethnic and religious diversity, and we believe that there is great value for the entire international community to preserve this unique historical heritage. The situation of the Christian communities is very worrying even since Daish was driven away from the Nineves plain and the area around Mosul. In the short term, improved security and reconstruction of the communities of minorities in the liberated areas are essential prerequisites for the return of the Christian population. In the longer term, many important issues remain, such as accountability, the building of strong state institutions, the rule of law and the promotion of more inclusive citizenship. These issues are of great importance in creating lasting conditions for a pluralist society in Iraq that protects and takes responsibility for the country's minority groups, including the Christian groups. Sweden has a broad and long-term commitment to Iraq. It aims to support the emergence of a democratic society that also includes minority groups. We stress this when we talk to government representatives. We stress the need to have full respect for human rights and minority rights. We are also pushing in the EU and the UN the question of clear measures for positions on reforms to move in this direction.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-421	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me what I intend to do in the UN and the EU to stop Turkish aggression in Rojava, whether the government intends to send observers through the UN and the EU to Rojava to investigate the abuse of the Turkish state and whether I intend to work through the EU and the UN for a no-fly zone. Amineh Kakabaveh has also asked me what I intend to do for Sweden and within the EU in order to persuade the Erdo中an regime to release as soon as possible Selahattin Demirtaş, the HDP leadership and HDP's democratically elected politicians and to respect their democratic and human rights so that they can normally participate in the work of the country's parliament, what I intend to do for Sweden and within the EU in order for all elected municipal politicians deposed by Erdo I share Amineh Kakabaveh's deep concern about the situation in north-east Syria and condemn the Turkish military offensive. It violates the UN Charter's ban on violence and violates international law. The offensive has played Daish in the hands, complicated the political process and had extensive humanitarian consequences. The Kurdish group and minorities in the region, such as Assyrians, Syrians and Yazidians, must be protected. We continue to call for Turkey's withdrawal. Sweden has continued to be active and a clear voice. In the EU, we have been pushing for clear statements, working for the EU to impose an arms embargo on Turkey and proposing that the EU develop options for further action. We have also worked to ensure that the UN Security Council assumes its responsibility to prevent further escalation. The establishment of an international observer force has so far been out of the question, particularly as it requires a mandate from the UN Security Council. Unfortunately, the Security Council's management of the Syrian crisis is characterised by locks, often due to obstruction from Russia. It therefore appears unlikely that the Security Council would be able to agree on an observer force. A no-fly zone cannot be excluded but is considered to be very difficult to achieve and is also deemed to have a limited impact on Turkey. But our efforts for international engagement do not stop at that. Sweden has long worked for accountability for the crimes committed in Syria, regardless of the perpetrator. Of course, any crimes committed in connection with the Turkish offensive should also be investigated and prosecuted. Sweden works in several channels to promote a broad accountability in Syria. We have been arguing for a long time that the situation should be referred to the International Criminal Court, the ICC. Sweden also contributed to the General Assembly's establishment in December 2016 of an international independent evidence-gathering mechanism for Syria that collects information to support future legal proceedings against perpetrators. After nearly nine years of conflict in Syria, the population and the region need peace, not a deepening conflict. Military action can never lead to lasting peace in Syria. I also share the interpellier's deep concern about the situation of HDP representatives in Turkey. Elected parliamentarians must be allowed to operate in accordance with their democratic mandate. We have said this to Turkish representatives in Stockholm and Ankara. Sweden is a driving force in drawing attention to Turkey's human rights violations in relevant international fora such as the EU, the Council of Europe and the OSSE. Within the EU, Sweden has regularly paid attention to the situation of opposition politicians in Turkey, including HDP representatives, but also to journalists, academics and civil society actors. For the Swedish foreign authorities in Turkey, monitoring of trials, for example against imprisoned opposition and elected parliamentarians, is an important part of the diplomatic mission.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-432	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. There is every reason to make demands on Turkey. Turkey is not just any country. It is a country that is a member of NATO and a candidate country of the EU. Turkey is strong in terms of military armaments and its armaments. You invade land after land. It was first the Kurdish part of Iraq, then in Turkey and now also in Libya and other countries to which military forces are sent. In two interpellations, I put concrete questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs about Sweden for his part and in the EU is pushing the issue of the release of political prisoners Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekda They and hundreds of elected politicians, councillors and thousands of other oppositionists are in prison after the so-called failed coup attempt. They lost their services in the state apparatus and have been locked up. In fact, Selahattin Demirtaş was acquitted at a trial in Istanbul. But at Erdo's request, he was arrested again by a court in Ankara. That's the way it is with one-man dictatorships. Of the opposition parties, HDP is, as has been said, the worst hit. By the end of last year, more than 28 municipal politicians in the Kurdish parts had been imprisoned. They, who are thus elected according to their own constitution, are replaced by Erdo AKP-friendly officials. That is unacceptable. Sweden must act concretely. It is not enough just to bring it up once. You have to demand their release. We should be able to do that. You can use different channels. Turkey is a member of various international contexts. Turkey, like all other countries, is responsible for complying with laws and standards. Now that HDP has its own congress, Erdo begins to arrest further elected politicians so that they will not succeed in their own congress. Nevertheless, HDP continues to hold its congress. Hopefully they will be able to carry it out in the spirit of democracy, even though it is difficult to breathe in Turkey today. Most of the imprisoned municipal politicians and HDP members are actually women. Erdo is afraid of women's power, both in Rojava and in Turkey. My question is whether the Foreign Minister will push the issue of the release of elected politicians and opponents. This applies to elected representatives as well as academics and other oppositionists in Turkey and in the Kurdish parts.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-441	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Amineh Kakabaveh for addressing these important issues. We fully agree that developments in Turkey are deeply worrying. Oppositionals are in custody. I and the government have repeatedly criticised this. This applies not least to the situation of the opposition party HDP and its former party leader Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekda Sweden demands their release. We have presented this in different contexts. At the time of the arrest in 2016, we noted that the detention of Demirtaş and other HDP politicians could not be seen as isolated cases but as a continuation of actions put forward by the party's representatives for a long time. In the context of the European Union, I have drawn attention to the preliminary investigations initiated against politicians and people who criticised Turkey's military offensive in north-east Syria. In Europe, we have also raised the situation of the local politicians who have been deposed and detained. In talks with representatives of Turkey, Sweden regularly takes the opportunity to emphasise that free opposition is a prerequisite for a democratic society. Against this background, it has been important to show solidarity with HDP leaders, for example through judicial supervision. Sweden's foreign authorities in Turkey have, among other things, monitored the trials against Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekda. We have also worked to ensure that other countries are present, show solidarity and pay attention to these cases. The government is also a driving force in the international fora that we consider most appropriate to pay attention to Turkey's violations of human rights. We are conducting these discussions where we can achieve results. We draw attention, among other things, to the situation of opposition politicians, journalists, academics and civil society actors and drive the EU Member States to continue to act together for human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Turkey. It is within the EU that we have the greatest opportunity to influence developments in Turkey, and we are in favour of a common and clear Turkey policy. The government believes that it is through continued dialogue, including clear criticism, that the EU can best influence Turkey. We are also continuing our work in the OSSE and the Council of Europe, as a forum for both dialogue and criticism. The EU and Sweden also continue to emphasise that Turkey's anti-terrorist legislation is being applied too widely. Turkey must, of course, like all countries, deal with the terrorist threat. But this must never be done at the cost of reducing respect for human rights, democracy or the rule of law.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-448	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for running the questions. I expect we'll never give up. It's important. Sweden as an individual country must also have its own voice and not only act through the EU, although it is important to pursue this issue in both the EU and the UN. The second important issue in my interpellations is that Sweden has every reason to press Erdo At the same time as the attacks on democracy take place within the country, the Erdo regime uses the Turkish military to attack and attack national minorities, such as Kurds, Assyrians and Syrians, in the neighbouring countries, in violation of international law. These are national minorities that have previously suffered the brutal persecutions of Daish and IS. When the Turkish media revealed that Turkish secret services were smuggling weapons to Daish, journalists who wrote about these conditions were forced to flee abroad in order not to be imprisoned. In January 2018, Turkish troops entered Afrin, which is located on Syrian territory. There was Kurdish peshmerga, in YPG and YPJ, the fight against Daish from Rojava. They established a functioning democracy in which women have leading roles. It is Erdo's fear that Kurdish women should have the power to influence, both within the country and in other countries. He has claimed that he wants to establish a so-called security zone because it cannot be established in another country by attack. Mr Erdo is intending to return refugees from Turkey to Syria but to the Kurdish-dominated Rojava. We remember this policy. It is a continuation of the policy pursued by Hafiz al-Asad-Assad in the 1960s. Arabized areas where Kurds and other minorities lived. Saddam pursued similar policies in, for example, Kirkuk and Arabized areas where the majority were Kurds. In other words, Mr Erdo's regime, which is the strongest NATO military power in the region, is pursuing a geopolitical policy of expansion and war of aggression. Last week, for example, the Turkish Parliament decided to send military personnel to Libya to plunder their natural resources. Turkey operates militarily in Kosovo as well as Somalia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, both through NATO and as an individual country. Turkey has bombed several places in Kurdistan and Iraq. Kurdistan, Syria and Turkey have destroyed villages and farms. This is terrible and must simply have consequences. However, with all due respect for the foreign minister's answers and ambitions, it is not possible, as she argues in her reply, to give up in the fart. One cannot say that it is not possible to enforce the demand for a no-fly zone because Russia is against it. We must be able to pursue this. It may not be possible in a first stage, but in a second or third round it must be possible. This is in line with the principle of international law. One must be able to pursue this and see that it is not useless. Sweden must require the establishment of a no-fly zone. We cannot simply bow to what Russia, Iran and Turkey think.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-456	Madam President, I would like We condemn the Turkish military offensive in northeastern Syria. Since the start of Turkey's military operation, the government has repeatedly criticised Turkey for its actions. This has been made bilaterally on several occasions and at different levels. We have also been active in both the EU and the UN. In the EU, Sweden, as the initiator of the initiative, has had an impact on both clear statements and strong action. Of course, Sweden would carefully consider supporting an international effort, the aim of which was to contribute to descalation, Turkish withdrawal and peace. But without a mandate of international law in the form of the consent of the Damascus regime or a mandate from the UN Security Council, this is not a way forward. The prospect of the Security Council agreeing on an acceptable mandate is very small. During Sweden's time in the Security Council, we experienced the Council's inability to reach a consensus in dealing with the Syria crisis. Just before Christmas, we saw again how Russia even makes the adoption of resolutions aimed at providing millions of people with life-saving humanitarian aid more difficult. Any discussion of international observers would probably be characterised by the same locks. Amineh Kakabaveh raises the issue of a no-fly zone. We cannot exclude such a zone, but it would not necessarily have any real impact on Turkey. As the fighting has taken place in the border area between the countries, Turkish flights could operate from their own territory and airspace. Nor have we yet seen a single state that would be willing to establish a no-fly zone. In this case too, the international legal conditions with the consent of Syria or a mandate from the UN Security Council are small. At the same time, we must note that the fighting in north-east Syria has now been reduced. The humanitarian situation has stabilised somewhat. The prolonged ceasefire is fundamentally good, and we welcome the efforts made to avoid armed confrontations. No more civilians should have to kill themselves. However, our position, as well as that of the European Union, remains unchanged. Turkey must withdraw. We shall not help to consolidate the presence of Turkey or Russia in the region. It is of the utmost importance that humanitarian actors be given full and unhindered access to the area. The protection of civilians, including Kurds and other minorities, must be a top priority. People forced to flee because of Turkey's military operation must be given the opportunity to return to their homes in a safe, voluntary and dignified manner. The reduced levels of violence do not mean that we have stopped worrying about Daish and that they will be given new impetus. The same applies to our concern about the situation in the camps that exist. It is very important to maintain security around both prisons and camps where Daish's terrorists and their relatives are held. We will continue to help alleviate suffering and distress in Syria and in affected neighbouring countries. We have extensive humanitarian support through a Syria strategy where the aid amounts to SEK 1.8 billion.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-464	Madam President, I would like We know that Sweden is a humanitarian country and acts as such, which is of course gratifying. I fully support this. But the problem is also that Sweden and many EU countries have hijacked themselves through the refugee agreement with Turkey. Daily we hear how refugees come from Turkey via the sea. Last night several refugees from Libya and Turkey who arrived by boat drowned. Turkey has created more chaos and more refugees by entering 30 kilometres in another country. It is not their border area, but Turkey itself has recognised that it is about 30 kilometres inside Syria. In the cities of Afrin and Tall Rifat, bombs were dropped at the end of last year, and ten people were murdered, many of which were young children. So it is not just a matter of one's own area. Turkey is creating more refugees and is looking for this money, the billions, which come half from Sweden. I know what our purpose is, but most of the money goes directly to Turkey's cash register because it is they who distribute the money to refugees. Therefore, we should not feel tied up by this. We in Sweden must raise our voice and directly demand Turkey to stop moving towards international law and stop being in Afrin and the other areas of Rojava. They must release political prisoners and allow them to receive medical care. For example, Selahattin Demirtaş did not receive medical care until after a week of pressure from his lawyer. We must demand this.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-468	Madam President, I would like We take every opportunity to inculcate our message to our Turkish counterparts. As regards the possibilities for democracy, human rights and the rule of law, these are limited in Turkey. However, I would like to protest against Amineh Kakabaveh's description of the refugee agreement. In fact, Turkey is the country in the world that receives the most refugees in this way. I have personally spoken several times to the Secretary-General of the UNHCR, Mr Filippo Grandi, who says that Turkey is one of the countries that takes the best care of refugees in the situation of so many refugees. The money that comes from the European Union does not go to Turkey's treasury at all. The Left Party and now Amineh Kakabaveh, who are no longer in the party but who say the same thing, claim that the money goes to Turkey's treasury. They don't. They go to the refugees. It is the UNHCR and the IOM that decide what refugees need. They say they need health care and education. Who can give it on a large scale in the case of 4 million refugees? Yes, it's the Ministry of Health and Education in Turkey. That's why they get paid for what they do, for the escapes. If the aid had been removed, the refugees would not have received either health care or education. I believe that the refugees are being attacked directly when it is said that they are going to Turkey. I think this is dishonest, and I intend to continue to be very clear about that. As far as the security zone is concerned, our position is that we do not want to contribute financially in order to stabilise those areas where the rights of the local population are not respected, with the exception of emergency humanitarian aid.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-474	Madam President, I would like Mrs Quicklund has asked me what concrete measures I intend to take to improve the serious situation regarding the working environment in the care of the elderly. No one should be harmed or sickened by their work. Working life should not lead to premature exclusion due to physical, social or organisational health and safety factors. I therefore take it very seriously that the working environment in the care of the elderly is poor. Since the government took office last term, an increased level of ambition for health and safety at work policy has been an important priority. Resources in this area have been greatly strengthened, with resources for the Swedish Work Environment Agency for more inspectors and increased presence in the workplace, for work life research and for the establishment of the Agency for Safety and Health at Work. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations on organizational and social work environment, which became applicable in 2016, represent a major step forward and new opportunities in work environment work. Workload, organisation of working time and discriminatory treatment are three areas on which the regulations focus. Based on the Government's strategy for 2016–2020, the Swedish Work Environment Authority was commissioned to conduct a monitoring of the working environment in the elderly care sector with a special focus on organisational and social work environment and the possibility for employees to influence and participate and with a gender perspective. The final report highlighted a number of development areas for improved work environment management. The supervision continued in 2019 at the Swedish Work Environment Authority's own initiative, which I am very much in favour of. The Swedish Work Environment Authority notes that health and care problems need to be made more visible in the organisations, where decision-making mandates are available for improvement measures to reduce the risks of unhealthy workload. It is politicians in the council, the board and the board who are the ultimate employer representative and who should make sure that workers are not exposed to risks of ill health and accidents at work. The Swedish Work Environment Authority therefore met municipalities and regions at political level in 2019 to inform about the employer responsibility that politicians have. During 2018, a mid-term review of the OSH strategy was carried out. The Agency for Safety and Health at Work was tasked with compiling knowledge about factors that create healthy and healthy workplaces with a particular focus on the organisational and social work environment. The mission will be reported in February 20 20. This commission was also given to the Swedish Work Environment Authority and the Swedish Agency for Safety and Health at Work to compile and report health factors at organizational level that can be measured and monitored over time and that should be able to contribute to a sustainable and healthy working environment. The mission shall be reported in February 202 1. During 2019, the Government has commissioned Statskontoret to evaluate the work environment strategy as an instrument. The result shall form a basis for the Government's development of a new strategy on health and safety at work. Good work environment and reduced sick leave are also crucial for municipalities to be able to ensure elderly care with good quality in the future. It is not enough to attract and recruit new employees. The full potential of women and men who are already employed must also be preserved. On 7 November 2019, the Government appointed a national coordinator in the field of care for the elderly who will, among other things, support municipally funded activities in their work for a good working environment. In order to improve the conditions for developing welfare activities and reduce the risk of cuts in municipalities and county councils, the Riksdag, following proposals from the Government in the budget bill, has decided on a general contribution of SEK 5 billion to the municipal sector for 2020, of which SEK 3 1⁄2 billion refers to general grants to municipalities. Everyone who works in welfare should have the time, energy and ability to give patients, patients and clients good care and high quality care. I will follow this issue and will not rule out the need for further action in the future.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-482	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The reason I've put this interpellation is because I have an incredible concern for the staff in care for the elderly. We can take part of this in the media almost every day, every week. It's just escalating. Now we have also seen the Upbringing Uproar – the staff themselves take hold of this and think that the limits have been reached. I would like to refer a little bit to the interpellation response from the Minister: Working life should not lead to premature exclusion due to physical, social or organisational health and safety factors. It's a very good intention, but that's not the reality. The Minister also says, "I therefore take very seriously the fact that the working environment in the care of the elderly is poor. This is quite correct. The government has had five years to improve the situation. This is nothing new, nothing that has come in the past year or the last few weeks, but it has been a long story with an increasingly poor working environment for care workers in the elderly. In times of prosperity, I am clearly disappointed that the government, knowing these conditions, has not reached any further. It continues to escalate. I'll be right back to the figures confirming this. In his reply, the Minister says that a commission has been given to the Swedish Work Environment Authority and the Swedish Agency for Safety and Health at Work to compile and report health factors. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has good intentions and does what it can. However, the Agency for Safety and Health at Work is an authority that the Moderates were opposed from the very beginning. Moreover, it is an authority that is in great crisis, and so it is going to deal with the crisis that we are seeing today in the care of the elderly. It's an authority where the staff stop and where confidence is low – you've lost it. State money is therefore currently being invested in training experts in the working environment in particular. The Minister himself hears what that sounds like. The government is now also placing the heavy responsibility for improving the working environment for elderly care workers. Today Elisabeth Svantesson and Ulf Kristersson went to a press conference with the presentation of a committee initiative in the Finance Committee. There they add 5.6 billion to local government, and this is about 3 billion to welfare. That's 4 200 nurses. This is an incredibly good initiative, and we obviously hope that we will get support for it. The Minister is happy to comment on today's move from the Moderates about extra resources that are really needed in welfare and more hands in health care. The situation is very urgent. However, the Minister says in his reply that I will follow the question and will not rule out the need for further action in the future. The future? We're in an emergency right now. The Minister will be happy to clarify what it means to remedy this in the future if necessary.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-489	Madam President, I would like As I described in my interpellation response to Saila Quicklund, I think there are a number of very important measures. I'm glad the Moderates see the need to provide more resources. I welcome the fact that more parties are looking after welfare. As I described, the effort we are making in the 2020 budget now adds another EUR 5 billion to the local government sector. It is clear that care for the elderly is absolutely central for many different reasons. Those who work in care for the elderly should have a good working environment and be able to do good work, both in order for them to be able to feel good and in order for us to ensure good quality in care for the elderly to all our elderly. But it is also important for the security and trust of our society that you and I can trust that we have an elderly care that is of high quality, so that we can go to our jobs and feel confident that all the loved ones we protect in our lives have a good life in the care of the elderly every day. That is why resources are so important to strengthen welfare. I am very pleased that the Moderates, just as we see the need for this and that we have support for it. I also think it is very important that we give the authorities working with these important activities the right conditions. I do not see that our mission as a politician is to black out various authorities, but rather to ensure that both the Swedish Work Environment Authority and the Swedish Agency for Safety and Health at Work get the best chance to do their important job. This is precisely what the Swedish Work Environment Authority points to in its review when you have looked at elderly care and met all the municipalities and regions and met the politicians who bear the ultimate employer responsibility for the working environment to be good. We must make sure that local politicians are called upon to do so. The Swedish Work Environment Authority will continue to follow up the issue and do random checks to see that something really happens in the area. Even from my own experience of working in trade unions for many years, I know that the prerequisites for employers and trade unions to be able to contribute to strengthening and developing elderly care are crucial. I myself very much look forward to going out at the end of this month together with Tobias Baudin, who is chairman of the trade union Kommunal, and among other things visit the elderly care in my municipality Luleå to discuss a little more with the staff. What do they see needs to be done at workplace level? What can the partners do together, the employers together with the trade unions? What support is needed from us politicians? What can the government and I do? What can we do together to ensure better conditions for care for the elderly? Madam President, I would like I am pleased that there is a consensus that the resources for care for the elderly are important. It's somewhere where it starts. It is about the possibility of recruiting staff. Today we know that many of those working in the care of the elderly are on their knees because they have too few colleagues. It goes without saying that more people need to be employed in these important activities. We also need to ensure that we overcome the health and safety problems. If we are to attract even more people to work in these important welfare activities, we also need to be able to attract with a good working environment. It is about when you go home after the end of your shift, you can be proud of the work you have done. It is a matter of feeling that the elderly have received the support they need.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-497	Madam President, I would like It is certainly not my intention to black out the authority. It is a fact that we have a crisising authority that will now be responsible for improving the working environment. It is also a fact that the Moderates invest much more than the government in welfare. We already did this in our budget exercise for 2020, and we are making the extra contribution that we presented today. Half of those employed in care for the elderly have seriously considered quitting. It is also significantly more than ten years ago. We have such enormous needs, and half are considering quitting. Increased stress, low influence over work and poor working hours are some of the reasons This is shown by a report from Stockholm University. The report also compares the Nordic countries. The development is consistently the worst for Sweden. It is both gloomy and heavy reading. Who wants to take these jobs when it looks like this? The development is also moving back quite quickly. But we are in danger of having a social crisis in the long term. Now it's an emergency. We need to invest more in staff, strengthen influence, conditions and salaries. That is exactly what the staff themselves claim. In the report, a total of 1,200 nurses and carers in home care and nursing homes in Sweden have been interviewed and 4,400 in the other Nordic countries. The change has consistently been much more negative in Sweden. What is the government doing wrong in Sweden? Public funds for care for the elderly have been continuously reduced, and the elderly to be cared for have become sicker. One in four places in retirement homes has also disappeared since 2000. In addition, ambitions have been raised considerably. This is also reflected in the staff's view of their job. I'll report some numbers. It was 45 per cent of Swedes who worked shared tours at least once a month but only 2 per cent in Denmark. That was 45% versus 2%. The full-time standard is several hours shorter per week in Denmark and Norway than in Sweden and Finland, and Sweden has more types of shifts than the other Nordic countries. Here you work day, night, everyday and weekend. More and more people are therefore dissatisfied with working hours. This is 41 percent in 2015 compared to 29 percent in 2005. Of course, those who are the worst at working hours are also the ones who are the most likely to quit. The employees in elderly care in Sweden have less opportunity to develop in the profession than the Nordic neighbours state. Why is Sweden so much worse in this particular work environment? The staff also have less contact with managers and claim less support. In the home care sector, the number of helpers per passport has increased from nine to twelve between 2005 and 2015. In home care, only 16 percent say that they can influence their job. These are extremely serious figures. We also see a need for 135 000 people in the coming years for prosperity. These are huge challenges. When the Minister takes note of this with the efforts that are apparently not enough today, I wonder: What does the Minister think? What concrete measures will be taken? It is not possible to refer to investigations, follow-ups and so on. The government has had five years, and the situation has only worsened.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-507	Madam President, I would like It is a very gloomy picture that Saila Quicklund paints here. I share the concern about the work environment in the care of the elderly. Just as I began by saying, it is absolutely crucial both for the staff who work there and also for the elderly, for the quality of care for the elderly and for us as relatives to be able to feel confident that the elderly receive the right support and good care every day. I don't think the solution for the future is just to dig into what doesn't work. I, Saila Quicklund and others who have a great deal of commitment to health and safety at work in elderly care need to take on board what the Swedish Work Environment Authority points out as the major problems and ensure that they are addressed. What I can note is that the Swedish Work Environment Authority points out when it comes to development areas is, for example, procedures for the introduction and competence development of employees. This applies, among other things, to load ergonomics and other factors that affect the working environment. It is about documentation and written procedures for risk assessments. It's about risk assessment for managers' work environment. It is about a clear balance between requirements and resources. That is where the issue of resources comes in, which we discussed here with extra efforts. It is about employees knowing what tasks are to be performed, what results are to be achieved and whether the work is to be carried out in a specific way. It is also a question of supporting priorities in the event of a shortage of resources and a lack of time. Madam President, I would like I think we are all aware that it is ultimately the employer who is responsible for the working environment. This also applies, of course, to care for the elderly. It is important that our local politicians, who have the ultimate responsibility, ensure that there are the right resources. But it is also important that employers, together with the unions, take the initiative and try to address the major problems. There is a lot to take into consideration that is positive. For example, the parties have worked together in Sunt's working life. It is a work owned by unions within the public sector in collaboration with the Swedish municipalities and county council and also Sobona. They have several interesting initiatives to strengthen the working environment. Among other things, you have something called the OSA check. How can we make practical use of the new regulations on the organisational and social working environment? They have an initiative called Chefoscopet where you also add research, i.e. evidence-based application, to the business. I think that's very central. It is about managers getting the right conditions to really be managers and lead the operations in a good way both for themselves and for the employees. There are also other joint initiatives within Prevent, for example. There they have developed a product called the Balance Guide – about life with work. There is a lot of positive happening in this area, and trade unions, together with employers, are doing very good things. My own experience from the trade union involvement was primarily about creating the conditions for managers in elderly care to be able to fully be managers and leaders of their operations. I also see a perspective that we have not yet mentioned in this debate, but which is important. That is the gender perspective. We know that managers in elderly care are often women, that these women often have more employees than the male colleagues in other municipal administrations, that they often have less administrative support than their male colleagues and that they have more subordinate employees than the male colleagues. All these are issues where we need to ensure that problems can be solved at local level too, and then we need to support them as rich politicians. I would also like to do so as a minister of state.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-519	Madam President, I would like I have to say, I'm getting a little upset. We have statistics from various research organisations and so on. The Minister stands all the time and claims that the Swedish Work Environment Authority points to this and that trade unions should take part of it. But why do we not listen to the real experts – the people on the nursing floor? They're the ones who work in the care of the elderly. The government keeps referring to the others. Where are these people's questions and answers to their questions? Why isn't the minister saying she's going out to talk to the people on the nursing floor? I think that would be a good thing. As many as 45 percent of those who have responded to a survey say that work has impaired their health. What other workplace would accept such a thing? 45 per cent feel that their health has deteriorated – it is a disaster when it comes to working conditions! 46% think you're not going to be able to work for the pension. We are running the risk of losing half of our staff in the near future, and this with the great challenge that we will need 135 000 more people in care for the elderly in a few years' time. Every third employee has been sick because of the job in the last 12 months, and worst for women aged 30 to 49 years. Women are also more than men at home from work, especially in the age of 30 and above. I will end the debate by not feeling at all calmer than when we started it. There are a lot of references to authorities and trade unions. There is talk of possible future action. Here we must act now. It's a crisis. The government has a great responsibility. Although there are employers, trade unions and companies with responsibility, the ultimate responsibility lies with the government.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-525	Madam President, I would like I can – unfortunately, I have to say – say that Saila Quicklund highlights many problems. We agree that problems are there to be resolved. Unfortunately, as I said, I do not hear any solutions. I think the responsibility that we need to take is to review the problems that have now surfaced because we gave the Swedish Work Environment Authority the opportunity to step in and really analyse the situation. But it's also about all the stories that we hear when we're out at work and meet both trade unions and employers. It is important to have the capacity to address the problems. I would like to emphasise once again the importance of creating the right conditions for staff in care for the elderly. Just as I mentioned earlier, I look forward to visiting my hometown Luleå at the end of the month to meet with Kommunal's chairman staff working in elderly care. Then we will discuss what we can do together in addition to what is now happening in the form of resource reinforcements, where the government this year in the budget for 2020 brings EUR 5 billion. It is also a question of giving powerful tools to our authorities to cooperate with the social partners. What I myself very much look forward to is the evaluation we are going to make of the current strategy on health and safety at work. I would like to conclude by inviting both Saila Quicklund and everyone else involved in health and safety at work to take part in this strategy and follow-up. But above all, I would like to invite you to help ensure that we can get an even better working environment both in elderly care and generally in working life in Sweden in the future.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-530	Madam President, I would like Magnus Jacobsson has asked me when I and the government will take the initiative to enable municipalities and regions to procure routes. Air transport has an important role to play in the transport system, mainly in terms of long-distance travel and transport. At the same time, aviation has a significant climate and environmental impact. The emissions and climate impact of aviation need to be reduced in order to achieve Sweden's climate targets. Articles 16 to 17 of the EU air transport regulation set out the conditions for the introduction of public service routes and the procurement of these air services. The Finnish Transport Agency is the competent authority in this area.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-533	In connection with the consideration of the Transport Committee's report 2017/ 18:TU10, the Swedish Transport Agency has supported the task of analysing which interregional public transport system should be subject to public service obligations in order to reduce accessibility gaps. Within the Ministry of Infrastructure, work is under way to review the responsibility and role of the State as a provider of aid to regional non-governmental airports and of routes with public service obligations. The work includes, among other things, the regulatory framework for the air traffic procured by the Finnish Transport Administration.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-535	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by wishing both the President with his staff and the Minister with his staff a good continuation of the new year. During the late 1800s and early 1900s there are a number of amazing changes that affect us even today. One of them is that the steam engine is being used to drive boats and railways. A little later you invent engines that allow us to have cars. A little later, the flight enters the infrastructure market. The interesting thing about all these four reforms is that they have created a freedom that we did not have before. They have created a freedom of movement that allows you to move to family and friends much faster than you could before the 19th century. But we can also move between continents. This is a freedom which in itself has also resulted in the trade that exists today. Freedom in combination with trade has also led us to live today – even if it does not sound so – in one of the safest times in the world in the sense that there are fewer wars than it has been before. This shows research in the field of international security. This is because, among other things, when we trade more with each other, we tend to fight less with each other. In that sense, we have actually improved our conditions. At the same time, I feel that there is a political line from the government which to some extent surprises me. It is about the fact that in some sense we have started to blame aircraft and cars. There is often talk of rail, and that is a positive thing. There is also talk of shipping, and that is a positive thing. But the car and aircraft still play important roles in the freedom to move and to have a well-functioning regional interaction with the rest of the country. The Swedish Municipalities and Regions have at their congress made a decision about a desire to move from passive support to more active support. Today, airports are often supported with an ownership supplement; I myself have been in Trollhättan Airport and have been involved in this. With more active support one could make a strategic assessment and ask: What do we need for flights, nationally or internationally, to improve our region's ability to develop and develop trade and thus also to develop peace? These are extremely important issues. I feel in the reply I have received today, Madam President, that it is actually similar to the answer I received in another interpellation before Christmas, namely: the matter is being prepared in the Government Office. Then, Madam President, I would like to put my question to the Minister. Does the government have a desire, a will, to listen to the new Congress decisions of Sweden's Municipalities and Regions? This is because we would like to have an opportunity to use air transport as public transport. It's a public transport service that works from a long distance. It works within Sweden, regionally, but can also work nationally and thus increase trade and freedom.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-543	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson! I also wish you a good continuation and hope that we will have good and constructive discussions during the next parliamentary year. I also appreciate the commitment to aviation. It's important. I hope that there is no difference in the view of aviation, because I am well aware that aviation is important in our elongated country. It is important for Sweden as an export nation that we have good air connections. But the flight has to change. This signal is clear from the government, from very many actors and thankfully now also from the aircraft itself. It has been recognized that one reason why some people choose to fly less is that they worry about the climate impact of aviation. Just as all other modes of transport assume their climate responsibility, so must aviation. That's why we from the government are working on the conversion of aviation, on the transition to biofuels according to Maria Wetterstrand's investigation and perhaps on electrification. Who knows? I hope and believe that, too, because it can be important for aviation to be there as a good means of transport on long journeys – without the great climate impact that it actually has today. I certainly do not share the view that the government or I would in any way blame aircraft or cars. On the contrary, we are the driving force in creating the conditions for these important vehicles to cope with climate change. We spend a number of government resources on contributing to technological development that accelerates that development, not least in the automotive industry where I myself have a background. However, I am a little concerned about where the Christian Democrats want to go with their transfer of responsibilities to municipalities and regions. Today, municipalities account for a significant part of the ownership of non-governmental airports. You drive them. The Christian Democrats want to go further in terms of municipalities taking responsibility for traffic and purchasing it. Are the Christian Democrats about to change a principle that we have had for a long time in Sweden, regardless of the government, and place greater responsibility on the municipalities? They already have a rather heavy burden to bear today, not least in terms of welfare. Will they also take responsibility for air routes in the future? Previously, it has been the state that has entered where there are no commercial conditions and procured traffic in, for example, Torsby, Hagfors, Vilhelmina, Lycksele and Arvidsjaur. I hope that the Christian Democrats do not think it reasonable that these municipalities should in the long term bear the costs of non-commercial air traffic and that the state should waive that responsibility. I do not want such a development. Whether it was moderate infrastructure ministers like Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd or Social Democratic before me, the answer has been the same and the unity of the Parliament has been the same: Procurement of non-commercial air traffic should be a state responsibility. We do not want increased municipal responsibility for air routes, least of all international air routes. The state should take that responsibility and ensure that you can have good connections in places such as Vilhelmina, Torsby, Hagfors and other places where the market is unable to do this. Otherwise, the air market is basically liberalised, and there are fairly clear international rules for it to be mainly commercial operators operating the air operations. I think that's a system that served us very well. My question back to Magnus Jacobsson is whether this is a way for the Christian Democrats to start transferring some of the responsibility for non-commercial traffic to municipalities and regions, where already today they bear a heavy responsibility for maintaining the economy of airports, their operation and investments in them. What is more, should traffic be more responsible?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-552	Madam President, I would like I will start with the environmental discussion and return to my historical picture. It is quite correct that the steam engine was the first form of transport by rail, which actually pulsed around Europe for quite a long time. Unlike many other parts of the world, Sweden has since electrified the railway, which has produced incredible environmental benefits. That is precisely the question on which I believe the Christian Democrats and the Government are at least in full agreement. That is why I chose not to highlight it so much in the debate because it is a matter of fact where we agree. In our budget, we spend money on biofuels for research. We set aside money for further research on electrification, whether it be cars, trucks or aircraft. So we are in agreement on this. However, there is a difference between the government parties that you notice if you follow Facebook and Twitter and other things, which I sometimes am amuse myself with doing. There you can see individual representatives of government parties more or less exult when a route is closed. Of course, you can take the view that it is a good thing that routes are closed down. But the effect of this is that the business community and people who want to hang out and meet relatives get worse opportunities. Of course, whether we are talking about aircraft, ships, railways or cars, we should focus on the fact that the infrastructure itself is positive. Fuels that have negative environmental effects will be hunted. My second question is more about the principles. We fundamentally agree on the principles. We have not put forward any motions to change the state's responsibilities. In our traffic movement, however, we have highlighted the idea that municipalities and regions that so desire should have the legal opportunity to move from passive support – which is if you give an ownership supplement to an airport as in Trollhättan, Karlstad, Jönköping and many others – to active support. Then you do exactly as we do in other public transport: you do a procurement. You buy a favor. In our view, it should even be possible for municipalities and businesses in an area to say that for them this is so important. We had such a situation in my home country, where they had flights between Saab and Frankfurt. That's exactly what they did commercially. Where the market is able to do so, the market will of course also solve it. However, there is a gap between public procurement and the individual municipality and the region. I myself have made study visits to Karlstad, where it has been said at that airport that it is felt that there can actually be some unfair competition when an airport in Värmland receives support but another airport does not receive support. Of course, a smaller airport has worse conditions than the larger airport closer to Karlstad. But even when we go in with state aid, we have to ask ourselves whether they will be effective enough or whether they themselves become a problem. On the basic issue, I think we agree with the organisation that we have today. But from the Christian Democratic perspective, we want to do what the Swedish Municipalities and Regions adopted at their congress: find an opportunity for municipalities and regions to strengthen their public transport at a longer distance via, for example, the procurement of air transport.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-561	Madam President, I would like To start with the climate issue, I would have liked us to agree, but unfortunately that is not the case. When the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, were given the opportunity to influence, to govern Sweden's budget, you put forward a proposal that went through the Riksdag and meant brutal savings on climate policy. You wanted to shut down the climate life. You made great savings on what helps the aviation, the automotive industry and large parts of society to switch. So we do not really agree on that. It may be individual Christian Democrats who are deeply involved in the climate issue. But I am concerned that when you have the opportunity to decide and decide in Parliament, yes, then the biggest saving policy will be climate policy. Magnus Jacobsson evils himself over a representative of some party who cheers at an air traffic control station. I would never do that. But it can also be noted that there are representatives of a number of parliamentary parties on the bourgeois side who have even denied climate change and said that the carbon effect only makes the forest greener. This type of discussion has not served the understanding of the transformation that the whole of Swedish society, Europe and the whole world need to make in order for us to be able to meet the commitments under the Paris Agreement or for our planet to survive in the future. I think it is incredibly important that we have a high level of ambition in climate policy, and we do. We have restored the savings made by the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, and we are now raising the climate allowance. This is important if we are to make a transition, not least in the transport sector. When it comes to responsibility, however, I am a little worried when I hear Magnus Jacobsson say that we should not change the division of responsibilities and at the same time talk warmly that the municipalities should now be responsible not only for the operation and investments but also for the traffic. Is this a communiqué, a transfer of the State's responsibility for non-commercial traffic? In this context, Torsby airport's relationship with Karlstad is taken up as a competitive relationship. However, I would like to say that there is a significant difference when we talk about places such as Vilhelmina, Arvidsjaur, Torsby, Lycksele or Hagfors. In the case of Torsby and Hagfors, it was also a bourgeois Minister of Infrastructure who ensured that traffic could be procured. To these locations the market will not reach, but otherwise the market will still have to find the conditions for what is commercially viable traffic. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the question once again: is it the case that the Christian Democrats are now beginning to say that the municipalities will take increased responsibility in the future for both operations and investments at the airport but also for a larger proportion of non-commercial traffic? If so, what are the consequences for the commercial operators currently operating at regional airports, when they know that the municipality can be responsible and go in and finance? Will this mean that the drive to benefit from municipal subsidies is increasing or decreasing? I think it is a good thing that we have government responsibility to ensure that we have clear procurement guidelines and prices so that we do not end up in a situation where municipalities are being pushed to further subsidise routes that are not commercially viable. This would not be good for Swedish flights or for the coordinated transport policy in Sweden.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-570	Madam President, I would like If we start with the first question, which is about climate policy in general, we can say that Sweden is probably one of the countries in the world that, regardless of what the different parties in this House think, invest most in good climate policy. We do so not only as a country, but also industry, as do the regions and municipalities. I was there myself when we in Uddevalla made ourselves completely free from mountain oil. The actual budget referred to by the Minister was Sweden's second-strongest environmental budget at the time; however, it was weaker than the government. After the government's last budget, the third was strongest because the government actually spent more money than we did on two occasions. But I do not get an answer to my basic question: can the Minister consider listening to SKL and their desire to have this opportunity? I have great respect for the issues raised by the Minister, such as what effects it could have on competition. It is quite possible that such a change could lead to some kind of chicken race where you choose not to drive strictly market-wise. There is that risk; you should be honest with that. But I do not get an answer as to why passive support is more morally right. It is also a form of aid for aviation. To give a owner directive that keeps costs down at the airport so that you do not bear your own costs is allowed. But active support in the form of procurement, which is also a form of support, is not allowed. I think it's limping a little.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-574	Madam President, I would like There is much to say about what Magnus Jacobsson says here at the end. We should remember that the investments are municipal – one must distinguish between investment and operation. Perhaps we should also remember that a rather large part of the operating aid available is the effect of the transfer to the county strike that the state once did. It is, therefore, state money that was initially exchanged when an airport reform was carried out. This means that the municipalities are now also involved in operating the airports. I believe that it is necessary to decide who is primarily responsible for non-commercial air traffic and to avoid the municipalities being blackmailed. I don't want to. My answer is the same as Anna Johansson and Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd certainly gave, and perhaps even Ulf Adelsohn during his days, although I'm not quite sure about that – we probably didn't have the same regulations then. But it is the same answer that any Minister of Infrastructure would have given, regardless of colour, and that a united Parliament supported: No, it is in fact the state that procures non-commercial air traffic. I look forward to continuing a constructive and good discussion on this!
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-578	Madam President, I would like Mattias Karlsson in Luleå has asked the Minister for Justice and Migration what measures he intends to take to stop the criminal activity in the taxi industry. The interpellation has been handed over to me. I would like to emphasise that all taxi operations should be carried out in accordance with the rules in force, and it is serious that there is a criminal activity. The black economy withholds tax revenue, distorts competition and risks financing criminal activities. According to the Taxi Traffic Act, it is punishable to drive a taxi if the driver does not have a taxi driver's ID or does not have the right to temporarily practise the taxi driver's profession. It is also punishable if a licence holder intentionally or negligently hires such a driver. It is also punishable if taxi services are operated without a taxi licence. Several authorities have a responsibility in the control and supervision of taxi operations. The authorities' missions differ, but in order to overcome the cheating, they need to cooperate. For example, the Tax Agency started earlier this year a special review of the provision of illegal taxi services in social media. The Swedish Tax Agency's control aims to counteract unfair competition that affects legal taxi operations. Over the past few years, two different services that have said they are providing car sharing services have been discontinued since several of their drivers have been convicted of illegal taxi services. In order to strengthen control activities, the Government has commissioned a special investigator to review the control of taxi traffic, among other things. The investigator will propose improvement measures that could relate to new ways of working, more efficient use of technical opportunities, increased regulatory coordination and more exchange of information. The investigator shall also make a proposal for a single organisational form for the control activities.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-583	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Infrastructure for his reply. The Swedish taxi industry has for a long time been threatened by unhealthy competition due to cheating with taxes and subsidies. This has largely influenced the conditions of competition in the market and also the general picture of the taxi industry as such. An offensive effort against old forms of black taxi and the rapid development of social media has led the illegal taxi to find new ways to meet its customers. The contact between driver and customer has moved to social media groups, and settlements on payment are made via mobile phones. The development of black taxis is a serious threat to the serious taxi industry. In small and medium-sized towns, in particular, serious taxi companies are now increasingly difficult to survive because of the competition from black taxis via social media. This is particularly serious for the taxi industry as it is characterised by small margins and high costs in the form of taxes and charges. In addition to having devastating consequences for serious taxi operators, black taxi business means that taxes and charges are not paid, which affects all publicly funded activities. Widespread acceptance and use of black taxis can help to reduce confidence in the tax system as a whole. My interpellation was set from the perspective of what can be done about the criminal activity in the taxi business. In fact, it is regrettable that the Minister of Justice has chosen not to answer the question but to send the Minister for Infrastructure instead. Several authorities are responsible for controlling the taxi market. From a tax perspective, the Swedish Tax Agency reviews compliance with the rules regarding taxes and charges, and the Swedish Transport Agency supervises the permits. In this context, it is obviously important, if not necessary, with the efforts and cooperation of all the authorities involved. However, what the issue focuses on is, as has been said, how the criminal aspect is dealt with. One way is to examine the economy of these individuals or companies, but it does not affect the fact that the issue must also be dealt with as a police matter. Police action is also needed to overcome the problem. So the question remains: what is the government doing to ensure that the police are working on this?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-591	Madam President, I would like This was an interesting interpellation debate that I wanted to take the opportunity to participate. If you listen to the Minister's answer, it became very clear that the Minister is, as my colleague Mattias says, unanswered. If you look at the media reporting you can see that among the ten worst municipalities in Sweden when it comes to black taxis in social media is my municipality Ljusdal ett, Hudiksvall is second, Luleå is third – it is not my constituency but Mattias Karlsson – and Gävle, which is a large city, is seventh. I visited Ljusdal's taxi just before Christmas, and they were able to tell me how the public service, as they see it, is getting significantly worse due to black driving booked in social media. Madam President, I would like It does not get any better if Region Gävleborg had a project where they even gave public funds to encourage carpooling, as they said. We Moderates, of course, voted against this in the then county council. We talked about the risk that this situation might arise. But the Social Democrats in Gävleborg did not listen to the criticism. When you can now see the outcome, as the survey from the Swedish Taxi Association shows, you have thus been very successful in encouraging people to carpool. I think Mattias Karlsson's questions are relevant: What does the government intend to do, and how have we ended up in the situation that the taxi industry in Ljusdal has actually been eliminated? There is no legal taxi in Ljusdal today. Those who go to Järvsö – they may travel climate friendly train to Järvsö and have planned to take a taxi up to the ski slope – suddenly notice that there is no taxi to order. This is a serious social problem, and it can also encourage other crime. In Gävle they had a project ten twelve years ago where they really tried to take strong action against black taxi. Traffic was banned after the clock. 22 outside the most popular restaurant, and the municipality has collaborated with the police. But despite this, Gävle, which is such a large city, is in seventh place on the Taxi Federation's list.
i-LuGVd9Vc23vTaofomqK1sx	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman and Mattias Karlsson for their commitment! Let me first give Mattias Karlsson a piece of advice, after a long time in Parliament. It is about how to formulate the question. It is not the case that the Minister of Justice chooses to refrain from debating and leaves the matter with a warm hand to another minister, but it is in fact the Member of Parliament who has formulated the question in such a way that it will automatically come to me. With a little help from the comrades in the parliamentary group, you can surely formulate the question so that it lands with the minister responsible for police operations in Sweden and not taxi operations. My second point is an appeal to the debaters. It is a journey I myself have made when it comes to illegal, illegal taxi operations: Do not use the term black taxi! I think it leads the idea wrong. It's not taxi business. I can get upset when I see the media report about someone being attacked or robbed in a black taxi. As it blackens down the taxi business when it's really about individuals choosing to illegally drive a car, drive others and charge for it! I would like us to sign out the concept of black taxi and tell you what it is, namely illegal commercial traffic. My third point is that we agree on this in principle. We don't want it. I have committed myself to this when I was a Member of Parliament from Kronoberg. The police have made and are still making good efforts together with other authorities to prosecute illegal commercial traffic. Last December they raided Umeå. That's how you're supposed to work. It is the responsibility of the police, and it should also be done together with the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and others. In addition, it can sometimes be quite effective. It is about stopping illegal competition and unsafe traffic into which people are attracted. But what Mattias Karlsson talks about in his exercise are things that occur in social media. Here the Swedish Tax Agency makes a special effort and has managed to stop several of these occurrences. But I still have a question for Mattias Karlsson and Lars Beckman. As a minister, I myself tabled a proposal on the further regulation of taxi services. We developed a new category of taxi operations and established new rules for the emerging digitalisation. Then came a motion from the Moderates, Sweden will be the world's best country for sharing economy, where the Moderates say that the possibility of using private cars for taxi services must be introduced. It says that Swedish legislation must be adapted to the emergence of new technology, and in order to facilitate more taxi driving, digitalisation and sharing economy should now be allowed into the industry. I would like Mattias Karlsson and Lars Beckman to tell you how you believe that the possibilities of punishing illegal commercial traffic would be increased if the moderate motion for increased sharing economy and the use of private cars to perform sharing services had been passed. Is this the right way to prosecute illegal commercial traffic? We have set up a study on more effective control of professional traffic, where we will look at the exchange of sanctions and more effective control possibilities in the case of truck traffic, bus traffic and, not least, the taxi industry, because that is needed. I am also upset that there is unfair competition and severe pressure on the serious players who want to build and be proud of a taxi business that they have been conducting for a long time. This should not be undermined by promoting this type of activity, as it may appear in the moderate motion, which I think you also voted in favour of in Parliament.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-607	Madam President, I would like It may not be how a new Member of Parliament has formulated the question that gives it to you, but perhaps it is some hack order among the ministers. As a new minister, you may be allowed to stand here on Tuesday evenings and answer questions from Members of Parliament. But it is laudable that, as the Minister says in his reply, an investigation has been set up to review the control activities of professional transport. As far as the investigation is concerned, the following can be observed: The concepts of black taxis or illegal taxis – which of those who are now the correct name for the offence – do not appear in the directive at all. The concept of taxis is mentioned twice in the ten-page directive, and only in the definition of the form of commercial traffic to be covered by the investigation. When the directives have been drafted in this way and when the Minister of Justice crouchs the question and sends the Minister of Infrastructure, there is of course an imminent risk that the focus will be on the control of the companies that have taxi licences and drivers who have taxi driver IDs and not on the licenceless, criminal activities that the Minister of Justice should have been here to answer about. I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure: should it not be made clear in the directives that the investigation also covers the control of black taxis? After all, the problems are so serious that it is urgent that the issue should not be given priority. It is not explicitly mentioned in the directives.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-613	Madam President, I would like I have respect for the fact that the Government obviously does not know all the projects that the Social Democrats are running in the country – it is well to ask too much. But I hope that the Government will have the opportunity to read about the project that the Social Democrats have run in Gävleborg, which is publicly funded and which is called "Samhäder i Gävleborg". You have a motive – you talk about people who drive a car going together. The project Caring in Gävleborg and the public funding for it naturally said no to the Moderates. We warned against the consequences. We said that it could well lead to people starting to travel together and paying without accounting for it. It can well be said that the project that the Social Democrats have run in Gävleborg has been extremely successful from the point of view of the project. Ljusdal is one in the country when it comes to problems with black taxis. It is therefore the concept of the Taxi Association; it is not something that we have made up. Hudiksvall is second in Sweden, and Gävle is seventh in Sweden. Three of the ten municipalities in Sweden that have the greatest problems with illegal taxi operations are located in Gävleborg. It cannot be ruled out that it is due to this project. Region Gävleborg and the then county council really wanted to encourage people to travel together. Unfortunately, this has had consequences: Taxi operations in Ljusdal have more or less ceased. The taxi company I met, which operated the service, said: It is pointless to try to operate taxis here on Friday and Saturday nights, because people solve this through social media. I find that unfortunate. The government has had five years to fight this. Now the Government will certainly account for what it is actually doing to reduce this problem.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-619	Madam President, I would like I find it interesting that the two moderate Members of Parliament are now avoiding, in a single word, telling us why they support a motion to promote the collaborative economy. It would be interesting to hear how Lars Beckman assumes his responsibility for the taxi operations carried out illegally via social media. Would that activity be made more difficult if the moderate exercise had gone through? The motion is about promoting the collaborative economy and the possibility of using private cars for taxi services. Is it a way to prosecute or facilitate illegal taxi operations both in Gävleborg and in the rest of the country? It is important to take responsibility also in the place you have in the Riksdag. As far as the investigation is concerned, there is no doubt that it is a question of more effective checks on professional traffic. It's about truck traffic. It's about bus traffic. It concerns taxi services, and it is mentioned in the Investigation Directive. The investigator shall also consult both the Taxi Association and other stakeholders during the investigation period. This is, of course, done in order to prosecute illegal activities and ensure better control facilities. However, when it comes to the police's activities, Mattias Karlsson may address the Minister of Justice and formulate the question so that the lawyers who decide where to deal with the questions, without the intervention of the ministers, can ensure that it comes to the right department. Let's remember one thing: I don't think we disagree here. Basically, I don't think any of us, regardless of which party we represent, think it's okay that serious entrepreneurs, whether it's about haulage or taxi business, suffer from unhealthy competition. No one likes the idea of trying to run a taxi business by rigging groups on Facebook and calling it a taxi. This poses a risk to those who use the services. They may be victims of crimes, fraud and other things. We have to help each other. Not least, the authorities must coordinate their activities in order to address this, whether they use new technologies and social media, or if they use old technology with illegal signs or whatever they had in the past. The important thing is that the authorities have the task of coordinating their efforts, that they have the resources to do so and that we follow with legislation, just as we did with the bill that we put on Parliament's table. The important thing is that the political signal from the parties in the Swedish Parliament is clear that we do not accept this. Mattias Karlsson is now given one last chance to answer for the motion that the Moderates have brought to Parliament on the basis of the bill that I presented. Will the facilitation of sharing services and the provision of taxi services in private cars help legal taxi operations? Is it the right way to go about an activity that has been so liberalised that it will be difficult for serious hauliers to get a good profit for the services they perform? Is it not the case that we need to increase control and make it more difficult for illegal taxis to operate and to ensure better regulation of professional traffic, both in the taxi industry and in other areas of professional traffic? I look forward to Mattias Karlsson's reply.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-627	Madam President, I would like This is not a debate on a committee report; it is a debate on an interpellation which has been put to the Minister for Justice to find out how the government has thought in the form of proposals to stop the criminal activity. In this situation, the Minister for Infrastructure chooses, among other things in his response, to produce the investigation that has been set up, where actually illegal taxi services are not mentioned at all. But that is the big answer from the government: that the criminal activity that we are now debating should be addressed through that investigation. Unsound competition from black taxis not only damages the individual taxi driver's ability to make a living, but also affects access to school transport, transport services and call-in public transport, as serious taxi companies do not survive. The existence of taxi companies is based on revenues from both procured community trips and ordinary taxi trips. A healthy and sustainable taxi industry is important for Sweden as a whole to have good access to mobility. Not least I know that, which is from a county that has very large geography. For many older people who choose not to drive for various reasons, taxis and community-paid taxis are a prerequisite for a functioning life, but even where public transport is available, taxis are important to enable people to get to and from the nodes of large-scale public transport. Without a taxi, public transport is never as flexible and accessible as the car.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-630	Madam President, I would like First: I think, Mattias Karlsson, that we fully agree that we will do everything we can to stop illegal taxi traffic and illegal activities. We shall ensure that good legislation prevents this. It is important for the legal taxi industry, for the profits of taxi drivers. And it's important to travel safely. We can do this in different ways. I note that Mattias Karlsson is concerned about the emergence of sharing services on social media. But in a word he does not say anything about the moderate parliamentary group's motion and the demand of the then spokesperson on taxis and infrastructure issues, who wants to increase the possibility of using private cars for taxi services. I think it might have been appropriate to give a signal about whether this is a good way to protect taxi operations in Luleå or Gävleborg. I am concerned about the emergence of sharing services that we see and which can promote illegal activities. I want order in commercial traffic, because that's where you as a customer are exposed. You do not know who is coming to pick you up, but you have to trust that it is a person who has a solid professional background, who is trained and who has taxi identification and permission to operate traffic. You get in the car knowing that it is a person who should drive you safe and secure. This is not the case with this kind of illegal service. It is insecure for travellers, and it is unfair competition against taxi companies. I will do what I can to continue to regulate and control this, because taxi operations are important. I have it in my family, and I have a lot of people around me who worked in it. It's important to me. I find it difficult to see how the Moderates can believe that continued use of sharing economy and social services as well as private delivery of taxi services should be the solution.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-635	Madam President, I would like Katarina Brännström has asked me what I will do to make it easier for companies to sign along roads and to make the assessment more uniform. I would like to begin by saying that the government attaches great importance to the development of the whole country, both rural and urban, so that the whole of Sweden's potential is used. The opportunities to live, live and work throughout the country will be improved. Measures that facilitate entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship and contribute to increased employment are therefore a priority for the government. Setting up advertising signs along a road requires permission from Trafikverket in its capacity as a road maintenance authority or by the County Administrative Board. If building permits are required, permits must also be obtained from the municipality. In the latter two cases, Trafikverket is often a consultation body. The Swedish Transport Administration can create consistency and help county boards and municipalities to make relevant assessments. The Finnish Transport Agency is tasked with assessing the suitability of signage with regard to road safety and maintenance of a road area. The Finnish Transport Agency's decision as a road maintenance authority can be appealed to the County Administrative Board. The Finnish Transport Agency has published guidelines for signs on its website and has developed internal procedures to ensure a uniform assessment. Traders are dependent on being able to advertise their activities in different ways, but this must not be done in a way that could jeopardise road safety. I can also note that Parliament has dealt with the issue on a number of occasions and rejected motions for a more generous application.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-641	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It is nice to debate matters with someone who comes from the county! As the Minister says, I asked what the government intends to do to make it easier for businesses to sign in rural areas. Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer. It was zero. I only got one account of what it is like to be able to put up signs today. Apparently the government is satisfied with the state of affairs despite the fact that there are hundreds, perhaps thousands of companies, homesteads, farm shops and tourist attractions that have struggled in vain and struggled with the Swedish Transport Administration and the county administrative boards to put up a reasonable sign. Tomas Eneroth clearly states in the introduction to his reply that the government attaches great importance to the use and development of the potential of Sweden as a whole. But I can't hear a single word about how. Unfortunately, it seems significant to the government: It is a lot of words but unfortunately a much smaller workshop. What are you going to do for rural businesses to live, Tomas Eneroth, when not even the relief of getting a sign up on a public road is interesting? I know Tomas Eneroth knows our neighborhoods well. We're from the same county. It is about Lange in Virestad, the homestead in Ormesberga and the country store in Tolg, to name a few. So they have not been allowed to put up their signs. I have been fighting for these signs in the countryside for years and I have written motions about it in the Chamber. I could list many other entrepreneurs who have contacted me about my sports. They are in despair, and some have even had to close down because they have not been allowed to sign off on their activities. We also know that there are signs everywhere we drive. In our county Huseby got an approved sign but not Lange on the same road, although the conditions look exactly the same. It is not reasonable for county officials to judge so differently in the same county or for different county boards in the country to make different assessments. As happened yesterday, a press release from the Business Council. It was like ordering for me. The press release is about the lack of consensus in county administrative rules and that it is crucial for the business environment, for growth and for jobs. You can read how they have done the survey, which shows that there are major differences in how county boards assess the same matters. The government has a great responsibility for the county boards. In fact, Sweden cannot afford a lot of obstacles to growth and jobs if the whole country is to live. I think we can agree on that. In this case, higher requirements are imposed on companies than on the authorities. In addition, it costs money every time a company applies for a sign. Also, any tips on what to do and how to get their sign cannot be given by the authorities. It is very rigid and feels old fashioned. You might think that signs in the countryside are not a big issue, but it is. It has a lot to do with how we will get businesses and housing in rural areas to work in the future. I therefore hope that the Minister has something more favourable to tell me here and now about what can be done to make it easier for these companies.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-651	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Katarina Brännström, for the commitment! I share it. After all, we have been dating as Members of Parliament on the same bench for a long time, and I am well aware of the conditions regarding the individual matters in Kronoberg County. However, in my role as Minister of Infrastructure, I cannot comment on them. Katarina Brännström knows that too. However, I am also of the opinion that it is important for us to have uniform application, which is why the Swedish Transport Administration is so clearly publishing guidelines that should guide the county boards in their application. It is of course important to have equal treatment. It is also important how the county boards act accordingly, and I hope that Katarina Brännström, as a member of the Transparency Council of the Kronoberg County Administrative Board, will also inquire about the application. The Council is, of course, a way that the government has to increase both transparency and the possibility of a local and regional dialogue in the county administrative board. It is important that there are good rules and good conditions for signage as long as it does not endanger road safety. We must also respect the fact that there are differences between urban and rural areas. I think everyone realizes that. Urban traffic often runs at lower speeds, while signs along an 80, 90 or 100 road have greater consequences if they attract the driver's gaze. There are guidelines from the Swedish Transport Administration, which on the whole has worked well, and this is also one of the reasons why the Riksdag has rejected Katarina Brännström's movements and not made any other positions. Nor do I think that the moderate parliamentary group has supported the movements, but it has been felt that it has worked well in the main. There may be reasons for the county administrative board to constantly see if the same assessment is made in other parts of the country, and I have ensured that the Finnish Transport Administration on its website and in other ways ensures that the best information and evidence is provided for the application of the rules by the county administrative boards. In the case of fees, Trafikverket did not previously charge them, but it is the county administrative board's fees or municipal fees that traders have been allowed to pay. I therefore share the commitment and, above all, see that it is important for us to have uniform application, and I think that the Swedish Transport Administration is making good efforts to ensure that it is as similar as possible. Basically, I think there are relatively good opportunities in the country for a well-functioning signage. There is also often an offer to traders to make a so-called road signage where at the crossing you get a different type of signage that leads into the store or business. It is in this way that we will try to find solutions at regional level at home in Kronoberg County and with a regulatory framework at national level that largely according to both the Riksdag and the Government has nevertheless worked preferably well.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-660	Madam President, I would like It is good that we have a common understanding, and I also know that Tomas Eneroth is interested in how things look at home in the countryside in Kronoberg. In such a county, we must promote the areas that exist. Today, many localities are disappearing because services are disappearing, and it is not reasonable for the state or county boards to contribute to the disappearance of activities. I agree that we did not change the rules when we were in the government. They're old, and some of them are out of fashion. I know the Finnish Transport Administration is trying to create uniform rules. As the Minister says, I sit on the Transparency Council and I have raised the issues several times. There are many officials there, and there will be a question of interpretation – and that is worrying. It'll be a pain in the ass. For example, there is the two-second rule, i.e. that it should not take more than two seconds to read a sign. But signs can stand 80 metres from the road or hang 80 metres up in the air. There's some weirdness. Some rent trailers on wheels, and they can be moved. You try to get away from the rules in every way. That is not a good thing, and that is why they should be reviewed. It's a different time now than when the laws were written. I think most of them are from the '50s. There are signs everywhere, but a small discreet sign next to a road by a forest is considered to be dangerous to traffic. It's hard to understand. A mile away that sign is not considered to be dangerous to traffic. There's a balance that doesn't feel good. For the individual company or business – a homestead farm, farm shop or something else – this can be absolutely crucial for whether they can continue their business or not. If customers can't find their way there, they can't survive. We must do more from a political point of view to support these people and activities in rural areas. There signs are such an example. We must ensure that regulations and laws enable local engagement to remain. So that it should not just be fair words when we say that the whole of Sweden should live, we must show with examples. They're bad. Then there is the question of safety. It is clear that our roads should be safe, but it is the poor road maintenance that causes more accidents than a single sign. I think we can agree on that. I've been looking, but I haven't found a single accident that's been caused by reading a sign. However, we know that disturbing mobile phones are much more dangerous than the signs. Sometimes it feels like we sift mosquitoes and swallow camels. I am afraid that smaller towns will disappear, and I want a change. I will continue to fight for these signs and for companies. Sometimes it seems almost a little bit like there has been prestige in the matter. It's hard to change when you once said no. I think that the government can point out to the county boards that the issue needs to be reviewed and, above all, that they need to be more coherent in their assessments.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-667	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Katarina Brännström, for the commitment! I appreciate it if Katarina Brännström uses her role in the Transparency Council to point out the importance of following the Swedish Transport Administration's guidelines. It's important. Then there will be a uniform application. In the long term, I think we will see another kind of element that could be more crucial to the attention and to direct customers to the country store and other activities, namely digital advertising. In your GPS or elsewhere, you will be noticed in good time that there is a shop or a shopping mall. This is the technological development we will see in the future, but it remains to be seen. It is important that there are good opportunities to inform about stores and shops or other services, but this should be done in a way that does not endanger road safety. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to say – and it is important – that it is not signs that cause road accidents, nor lack of road maintenance, but it is speed that kills. Last year, thankfully, we had the lowest number of people killed and injured in traffic ever – 223. But that's still 223 too many. We can see that it is high speed that leads to people dying in traffic – along with drunkenness and drug influence. There is now a great deal of effort to be made. We spend 9 – 10 billion in the coming years separating lanes to avoid frontal collisions and increasing the number of controls on drunk driving and drug intoxication. It's important in itself. I say again that it is important to have good opportunities for signage. This is important for local and regional business. It shall be a uniform application. Parliament has stated that no changes in the rules are required. The motions presented by Katarina Brännström have been rejected and the current system is considered to be working well. However, as Minister for Infrastructure, I believe that uniform application is important both within counties and between counties. This is why it is important that the Swedish Transport Administration gives advice and guidelines for signage on its website and also develops procedures to ensure that there is a uniform assessment. That's how we're supposed to work, and that's how it's supposed to work.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-671	Madam President, I would like I think we're pretty much in agreement. Now the Minister mentions GPS and digital advertising, but it can be so dangerous if you're going to watch two or three seconds on the GPS instead of on the road. There has been a prudence on the signs in rural areas, and this issue should be looked at better. This is particularly true of equal application. Of course there are shortcomings in road maintenance. The transport companies wrote this week that their large vehicles in many places are having a difficult time and that the shortcomings make it dangerous – although obviously the speed kills the most. I am not going to wear this issue too long, but I would still like to send the very question of a single small sign of several kilometres out in the countryside. It can rarely be dangerous to traffic. Usually there are two-plus-one roads that make the roads safer. Besides, we're not going as fast either. The companies will continue to exist. We cannot afford to miss these job opportunities or the growth that they bring to a small locality in the country. Not everyone can live and work in the city. There's signs everywhere, and Eneroth knows it. Just look at what it looks like in Växjö; there are huge signs in some places, and in some places you can drive 70 kilometers per hour. It could be a good thing. I find it hard to see how signs can be dangerous in one place but not in another. Thank you for the debate.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-675	Madam President, I would like I also thank Katarina Brännström, and I appreciate the commitment. It is important that there are good conditions for companies, grocery stores and others. We both come from Kronoberg County, and they are the lifeblood of the county – not only for the tourism industry but also for everyone who lives and lives there. Then there must be good conditions for traders to tell the outside world that there is a fantastic Kronoberg county to discover by means of signs, digitally or otherwise. Thank you for a good debate!
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-677	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I intend to speed up work on safe resting places. It is important that there are safe and secure parking and rest places where the driver can park or take breaks. It is totally unacceptable that 20 to 45% of truck drivers have been victims of crime at some point in their professional career. Traffic analysis found in its 2016 report that while a review of the crime statistics did not show any increase in crime at scaffolding sites, a large number of drivers experienced insecurity and reported to have been exposed to crime. The number of earrings can be large. The Government has given Trafikverket a mandate to conduct a review of how we can get more secure parking places for professional traffic. It is the Swedish Transport Administration that plans and implements the commission from the Government, and they will report annually in connection with the annual report on how the work is planned, implemented and progressed. The government also makes historical investments in Swedish police and also strengthens other parts of the legal chain. The judicial system is thus better placed to increase security and combat all forms of crime, no matter who it is directed against. In order to combat serious organised crime, joint work is also carried out by public authorities. Of course, the employer also has a responsibility for the driver having a good working environment, and that responsibility includes taking risk prevention measures if an employee is at risk of being subjected to violence or threats of violence.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-682	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. It is not so long ago that we have been debating this issue, barely two months ago. After the last debate, I received an email from a racer. He wrote this: Hey, Thomas! I hope you're okay. We daily have about fifteen drivers who have their night rest in the cabin, especially in Stockholm and Mälardalen. Read in Trailer about the risk of robbery, assault and burglary that creates an unsafe working environment for many truck drivers. Can sign it, because daily I get it from our drivers who are in the cab and feel the same. That is why I wanted another interpellation debate. I have received an answer from the Minister for Infrastructure, with which I am not quite satisfied, I must admit. In the conclusion to the answer, the Government points out that it is the responsibility of the employer that the driver has a safe working environment. It is true that the employer must ensure that the driver has a safe and secure workplace in the activities over which the employer can control. What we are talking about in this case is the lack of government ability to keep to the criminals. You cannot point to an employer and say: It will be your responsibility. It's not working. Here it is quite evident that the state's ability to prosecute those who commit serious crimes is lacking. In the other answer, the Government actually points to the great concern. He says that it is totally unacceptable that 20 to 45% of truck drivers have been victims of crime at some point in their professional career. This is the crux of the matter: that criminals get so widespread in society and can take such a power that people feel that they are insecure in their working environment, that they cannot sleep. In the answer, the Government continues to say, "The Government has given the Finnish Transport Agency a mission to review how we can get more secure parking places for professional traffic." It is the Finnish Transport Agency that plans and implements the commission from the Government, and they will report annually in connection with the annual report on how the work has been planned, implemented and progressed. It is a formulation without clear control. It's a general text-- please, look into it a little bit, and you can write in your bookkeeping how it goes. There is nothing pointed out: we have to solve this! With the situation we are in right now, it hastens to secure places for professional drivers along our roads. It is totally unacceptable that so many people in their professional activities are concerned. Think yourself to lie in the truck and not be able to sleep when I'm going to have my daily rest because I'm afraid something will happen during the time I'm going to rest in order to be a good driver in my next shift. Think a little bit about the feeling these people have when they lie in bed in the cabin!
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-690	Madam President, I would like We've discussed this several times. Let us stop at the last: when I think about that feeling, I also think that it is an employee who is sent by his employer to do his job. The employer actually has a responsibility under the Work Environment Act to ensure that you can complete your job and can be safe at your job. If there is a risk, it shall even be ensured that there are alarm devices or, for that matter, special locking devices on the vehicle. It is not always present. It is also possible to increase the protection of individuals so that they do not feel that insecurity. It is possible to ensure that you have the time and space to make a report if crime is now on the increase. As mentioned in the answer and in the report, there is a clear probability that there is a dark figure because you do not think you have the time or the opportunity to even make a notification. I think it is important, so that the police are given the right basis to know what are particularly vulnerable places. In particularly vulnerable places, there is now also the possibility, with the camera surveillance team that we have enforced, to set up camera surveillance to increase protection without the test that was previously quite complicated. Here, the government is making a great deal of effort. However, I find it worrying when Thomas Morell repeatedly says that the employer does not have a responsibility for his employee. That's what you do. It is an important part of the Swedish model that there are safety representatives and a safety activity that ensures that you can be safe at your job. I call for this commitment from the Swedish Democrats. When it comes to Trafikverket, it is not that Trafikverket is allowed to make hips as happy. This is not how government control works. The mission includes: A review of how to remedy the deficiencies in safe parking places along major roads 中 assess the need for safe parking places along major roads and are expected to develop 中 to analyse the benefits and costs and other consequences of a roll-out 中 to develop possible business models that can promote adequate deployment In the context of new infrastructure, upgrading and trimming measures, plan to facilitate the private establishment of safe scaffolding sites a review of the possibilities offered by the new Camera Surveillance Act to increase safety 中 to review and estimate cost measures that help to increase safety at other rest and parking sites after the road network. This is the task you have, which you work with and which you also report on a regular basis. However, there is also a difficult balance here. Here I have called for an answer earlier from Thomas Morell but received nothing. It's about whose responsibility is ultimately. We have some commercial players. Truckstop in Örebro is a good example – a fantastic activity that I have visited, with a strong commitment. At the same time, we know that it is not easy to have a private market for safe rest areas, and this means that we are facing a stage where we may also have to have a state commitment in the preparation and operation of safe rest areas. How do the Swedish Democrats and Thomas Morell view whose responsibility it is? Today, however, we are happy to see and want to make it easier for operators to operate safe rest-place operations like Truckstop, for example. I am keen that we now expand more safe rest areas so that professional traffic can be safe, but I am also keen that employers take their responsibility and that the police have the right resources to prosecute crime whether it is a crime at a rest area or someone who attacks with iron pipes in the city. It is important that the police constantly prosecute when criminal activities take place.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-703	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! When it comes to prosecuting crimes, the Government does not have the slightest concern for my commitment. If there's anything we have to do, it's make sure to punish the one who commits the crime. I have here an article from yesterday from the newspaper Trailer. There was a driver who had stayed down in Ängelholm. At 3:30 a.m., he wakes up from the car rocking – it doesn't make the car by itself; it's too heavy for that. So he wakes up by someone doing something in the car and looking out, and then four are stealing clothes from the car. He makes the mistake of opening the door and stepping out, which results in him being beaten up. Of course, he would have stayed inside the cabin and called the police. I haven't confirmed it, but I think it's about a foreign driver. I also brought another article from the newspaper Proffs. A driver at one of the major haulage companies in Sweden wakes up when the car swings – even in this case. When he pulls the curtain away in the cabin and looks out, it stands one there armed with an AK5. I guess the government itself has been out shooting one of those, because they did it in military service. It's an automatic weapon. At that level, crime is today. You stand with armed guards when you empty the cars of valuable goods. It is impossible for an employer to take responsibility for this. Employers can do what is incumbent on them. I've never questioned that they will. They should ensure that the cars are in safe driving condition and plan their operations in such a way that drivers can do their job safely. But when there are no places, more than actually at Brändåsen in Örebro, with a secure layout there is only one option left for employers, and that is to leave the car at home and let the customers come and pick up their goods there. When crime takes such dimensions that even properties on Östermalm in Stockholm are not safe but large parts of the facade are blown away, then it has got such a stronghold in our society that it is not possible to protect itself. It cannot be said to a landowner that it must ensure that drivers are not subjected to this, thus placing responsibility on the employer. It is the responsibility of the state to be law enforcement, not the individual entrepreneur. If we are to tackle crime, we must have sufficient police resources. We must also have a clear effect on committing a crime; it must be a clear punishment for what you are doing. That is not the case today. We have discussed this on several occasions in the past. The lack of clarity in this means that crime is moving in these areas all the time, for cars are known to have 34 to 36 tons of goods, and often they are loaded with something valuable. That's a lot of money to get! Some are so suggested that they even lie behind the car for 80 kilometers per hour and open the doors and empty the car while travelling. How is the employer supposed to protect the driver from that?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-712	Madam President, I would like We can expect those at Trafikverket to work as hard as they can with the police, haulage industry and many others to ensure that we get more safe rest places. It is important, and it is a clear request from the government because it is needed. I also note that this time again Thomas Morell avoids answering the question: should there be commercial rest stops, or how should we facilitate the creation of more safe rest places? The Kame raid law has been a way of increasing the possibility. I believe that we are on track here in terms of both increasing the safety of individual drivers by employers taking their responsibilities with planned driving with safe protection and, not least, by ensuring that they have the time and the opportunity to report what has happened so that we get a true crime statistics. There is much evidence that it would be useful because many claim to have experienced an increase in crime. I think that might be true. Then it is important to have the time and space to make a report and in this way provide the police with a basis to see where there are major risks and particularly criminal places. This allows special efforts to be made. No one wants more than I do to ensure that professional traffic is protected and has a good chance of travelling freely across the country. Why is that important? Because Sweden is an export-dependent industrial nation that must have the possibility of good communications for the goods. That's why we're making big investments, not least on infrastructure. It is also in order to increase protection that we are making historically large investments in the police with more police officers than ever before, more investigating crimes and increased opportunities for police surveillance. That's how we work. Here, employers, together with the police, law enforcement authorities and other actors, must ensure that it is as safe as possible and that we face this crime better. Of course, I assume that the Swedish Transport Administration in the coordination you have found the right efforts so that we get more safe resting places. I'm a little curious about how Thomas Morell thinks we should get more safe resting places. Are commercial operators or other operators responsible for providing the services? It is an exciting choice of road we are facing in Sweden, not least in a situation where we are talking at European level with the new mobility package about the faster establishment of safe rest places and conditions for professional traffic. That is something that I very much welcome.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-717	Madam President, I would like As far as the police are concerned, it is in this way that the number of jobs in the Police Authority is currently increasing. But most of those who start are civil servants. Of course, it can be good, because it can free up police resources to get outside the house, so to speak. But the increase we are seeing today is mainly among civilian employees. That is not to say that it would be negative, but we need more uniformed policemen out on the streets as well. In the case of rest stops, there is a government responsibility to ensure that rest places are available on given distances. If I were to drive a journey up towards Arjeplog, for example, and the whole ride is full of TVs, computers or something like that – 34 tons – where on that road should I sleep safely? There's no such place. Maybe it's if I went home to my old parents' home in Vilhelmina, but I won't be there in a day's driving time. This is the problem. I have no alternative, but when the driving time is over I have to stop, and then it is the option that I have closest possible. Then I can be exposed to exactly what the driver did who saw a person with an AK5 outside the car. It happened not on Nlandsvägen but in Stockholm. Again, will we see faster action to secure rest areas on our roads?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-721	Madam President, I would like I note that this time again I did not receive an answer to the question of the responsibility for rest-place activities. I'm a little perplexed about why, because it's important that we get more actors who offer safe resting places. It is important for professional drivers in the country to have an increase in this. I think it is also important that the Finnish Transport Agency, the police and other actors continue to work tirelessly to increase the number of safe rest places. It is important for professional traffic, it is important for safety and it is important that we now have more policemen and also have increased camera surveillance facilities and the conditions for controlling professional traffic with the directives we have presented for an investigation. I believe that we have better opportunities than we have in a very long time to have a safer and safer commercial traffic, but also more order and order. I would like to take this opportunity – it is difficult not to do so in this context – to say that before 2014 there were no control possibilities. Then we didn't have clapping, fines, ordering liability or extra resources to the police for cabotage ontrolls. All the efforts now being made to get more order in professional traffic did not exist at all during the time when we had a right-wing-dominated government that wanted liberalisation and that the market would manage everything. I believe that we must have rules. We need to be in order. We have now negotiated a mobility package internationally, which also at European level means that there are better rules so that we cannot get illegal cabotage traffic and, above all, so that we can get secondment from day one for both cabotage and combined transport. These have been matters of heart for me as Minister of Infrastructure precisely because professional traffic is important not only for those who work – it is a fantastic job they do – but also for Sweden as an industrial nation. Let us now also ensure that we can cope with climate change in the truck sector in the future. Even when it comes to that, I'm an optimist. You have to be able to be.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-725	Madam President, I would like Patrik Jönsson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to strengthen the safety of train crews on board trains. Increased security for both employees and passengers in public transport is important in order to increase attractiveness and enable increased travel by means of public transport. As regards the safety and safety of workers on board trains, this is primarily a clear responsibility for the employer. The Government has investigated the possibilities for a simpler procedure regarding camera surveillance in public transport, and a number of proposals were presented in the investigation, which submitted its final report in February 2019. The investigation's proposals are now being prepared within the Government Office. In 2017, the National Council for Railway and Public Transport Protection was established, which cooperates on security issues at national level. The Council includes authorities such as the Swedish Transport Administration, the Swedish Transport Agency and the Swedish Police Authority, but also representatives of the industry such as the Swedish Rail Operators Association, Swedish Municipalities and Regions, Swedish Public Transport, the Swedish Transport Administration in Region Stockholm and Jernhusen. Within the framework of the National Council, structured cooperation is conducted on security and security issues.
i-JxUsZEEpgujmX9pjNMdHU9	Madam President, I would like Good evening, Madam President, and the Minister for Infrastructure. I would like to begin by thanking the Government for its answer. I must say, as a former railway employee, that it hurts me when I read that many of my old colleagues get hurt when they work on the trains. Seko, the trade union in which I am still a member, has carried out a survey among some 3 000 train drivers and train hosts. It shows that threats and violence are becoming increasingly common. It is everyday today, and every year it increases. I was going to mention some numbers from the investigation. Half of the train attendants have replied that there are threats at least once a week. 19 percent say it happens every day or almost every day. Let this sink in! 20% responds that violence occurs at least once a week. 5 percent say it occurs daily or almost daily. In addition, 16 percent of members report that sexual harassment is common. These are totally sick numbers. This is a sharp increase since the survey carried out ten years ago. The problem of cooperation is also great. Almost one in four work alone daily or almost daily. Thus, if there is a threatening situation, there is no support from a colleague. Anyone who reads these figures must see that it is a completely unreasonable work situation. During my twenty-year working life, I have not been threatened or in a situation of violence. I still worked as a station host for years in the '90s. Then you have a lot of customer contact and come in contact with delayed travelers who are very irritated. If it had been today, I would probably have looked around for another job. What are the measures? The Minister's reply does not contain anything to be said about. The Minister believes that talks within the National Council for Railway and Public Transport Protection and enhanced camera surveillance are sufficient. I do not share this view, but I get the feeling that the government is trying to turn a blind eye to the problem. Mr Seko highlights several proposals, many of which I agree with. One of the proposals is to prohibit cooperation. Already today, the employer can decide to increase to at least double staffing. However, it is a competitive industry, especially for the procured local and regional traffic. The issue of a ban on cooperation needs to be raised. Camera monitoring is really important and good – absolutely! Today, however, many of the trains are being monitored. Of course, more cameras on trains but also on platforms and in waiting rooms would be desirable for the safety of both passengers and train crew. It also makes it easier to track down and prosecute violent persons. One measure that Mr Seko highlights and the measure that I would like to highlight in particular is a ban on access to persons who have acted threateningly or violently against crew members. This question seems to have been completely missed by the government. I therefore wonder what the Minister is willing to do in concrete terms to overcome the increased insecurity in public transport.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-736	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Patrik Jönsson, for the commitment! I appreciate it. I note that the improvements that have been made, not least when the Öresund trains stopped cooperation, have been made thanks to trade union work by Sekos. There you are deeply involved in the matter. This shows the importance of our safety representative activities, a strong trade union commitment and, not least, regional safety representatives. Unfortunately, the Swedish democrats have felt that they should weaken their protection activities. The Swedish Democrats have also previously supported savings proposals within the Swedish Work Environment Institute or the Swedish Work Environment Authority. We provide resources, both to increase the possibility of controls on the working environment and to ensure that we have better conditions for the protection activities in the future. This is particularly important at a time when we are investing heavily in rail transport. It's historical investment. Here comes the new train cars. Then I think it is reasonable to make new demands on safety equipment and on camera surveillance but also on a good working environment for those who work in railway traffic. It will be absolutely crucial if we are to find people who want to work in the strongly increasing rail traffic. No one should hesitate about the commitment of the government here, whether it is about the resources we make available to the responsible authorities or the proposals we put forward for a better and safer working environment. I am also convinced that the industry itself feels a strong commitment and responsibility, just as Seko does. Seko highlights several good suggestions. Unfortunately, some of them are not within my remit, but within the areas of the Minister for Labour or other ministers of government. I hope that Patrik Jönsson chooses to continue the discussion there too. It is important that we move forward the positions of a safer and safer working life. It is unacceptable for the threats that have sometimes been directed at train employees and public transport in general. It is therefore important that we provide the possibility of camera surveillance but also that we limit cooperation and ensure that you have the right equipment and training to deal with difficult situations. It is a tough challenge; when traffic situations or delays arise, you must be able to feel safe in your professional practice and that you have colleagues to turn to. I will be keen to follow developments and to ensure that there are the best possible conditions to do a good job now that interest in train travel is increasing. As I say in the answer, there is both a report on camera surveillance that the government is now preparing and other security measures in public transport. The National Council for Railway and Public Transport Protection is also constantly working on safety issues. It's important. I believe that we will have to work together, by strengthening the ability of trade unions to have safety representatives and thus be able to make safety rounds and increase security. But we should also be clear about the employer's responsibility so that the employees feel safe. I think the latter is not important enough to emphasise. When one sees that there is a risk of increased threats and violence against the employees, the employer must give the employees good conditions to be able to handle situations and feel safe in their professional practice. In addition, they shall have the right protective equipment if necessary or the possibility of camera surveillance.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-746	Madam President, I would like I first have a corrigendum. We Swedish democrats have made it clear that they should not appoint safety representatives after a party book. Employees should be allowed to appoint safety representatives, and it should not be those who have a Social Democratic party book. That's right. I think this is a strengthened opportunity for safety representatives. Madam President, I would like One thought strikes me: what would the Minister have done if 20% of the employees at the Government Office had stated that there is violence at least once a week and 16% of the employees had responded that there is often sexual harassment? I do not think that the Minister would have sat with his arms crossed and felt that it was unnecessary to exert pressure to overcome the problem. But that is the insecurity faced by those who work on the trains. I have identified five measures that each can strengthen the security of public transport. Order guards on board are costly and are not a government issue. But it works well. I know that Region Skåne has it on certain departures. They already did when I was on the public transport board there. However, it is not sustainable to have security officers on all trains and buses. It's way too expensive. Body-borne cameras are absolutely a good complement. It also provides the opportunity to capture sounds in case of threats. It is a relatively cheap measure, but it is not a government issue. I know that the be or non-being of body-borne cameras is being debated with Morgan Johansson. It is a grey area, but there is no ban on them anyway. I am pleased that the Minister at least finds threats and violence unacceptable. But on the part of the state, we can decide that cooperation is not allowed. There is a difference between encouraging not to have it and directly banning it. We can decide on more stringent penalties for threats and violence against officials working on board trains. Other professions may also be relevant, but we are now debating on-board personnel. We have recently tightened the penalties for violence against blue light personnel. Now we should look at other professions. Here we are talking about a group that is extremely vulnerable. The figures speak for themselves. I do not think that the Minister is going to come up with anything concrete at all. The absolutely strongest proposal is, in my view, a protection of access from violent public transport operators. Persons who have threatened or used violence against crew members do not belong on board trains. I really wonder whether the Minister would like to adopt this and perhaps even present an investigation. We're going to file a motion on it. But, of course, the government can help overcome this through, for example, a bill. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that decisions must be taken on both increased penalties and the possibility of denying people access to public transport when they pose a danger to staff and passengers. I hope that the government will change its attitude on this issue so that we can walk hand and hand towards a safer environment on board trains and buses.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-755	Madam President, I would like I fully share the point of departure. It should be safe and secure for those who work in public transport. We should have clear rules that tell us what the employer's responsibility is so that we can limit cooperation and ensure that you have a safe and safe working environment. As I mentioned, we have an investigation that addresses, among other things, camera surveillance and other protective measures. I think it's incredibly important to feel safe. The government is prepared to do more, and we are doing more. I am a little perplexed about how Patrik Jönsson and the Swedish Democrats, who have quite far-reaching demands, will be able to get through it together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. Patrik Jönsson fights for Ulf Kristersson to become Sweden's Prime Minister. The Swedish Democrats have said that they want to be part of a basis for a government made up of Swedish democrats or at least Christian Democrats and Moderates. I note that this commitment is not there either for the protection, health and safety activities or, for that matter, for the regulation of cooperation. Let me conclude by saying something about the main safety representative, the safety representative and the party book. What is said here is not true, Patrik Jönsson. It is not the party book that is crucial, but that the members should choose those who represent their protection interest. This view does not share the views of the Swedish Democrats, and I think that is serious. I think members should be allowed to choose who will secure my protection at my workplace. I do so through my membership in a trade union organisation. The Swedish Democrats want to withdraw from this. They want to ensure that others appoint the person responsible for the protection activities. That would be an unfortunate development. I think it is important that I, as a trade union member at a workplace, know the person who should represent my interests. Even if you have good collaboration between trade unions, employees and employers in Sweden with a low level of conflict and often interact in a fantastic way, you should remember that there are sometimes very clear conflicts of interest. This applies not least to issues of security, cooperation, threats and risks. Then it is important for me as a member to be able to choose who will represent me on protection issues. I say this not only as Minister of Infrastructure and Social Democrats, but also as the old chief safety officer in industry.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-761	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Infrastructure here had a golden opportunity to address those who are exposed to threats and violence in public transport, often Seko members. Seko is a trade union that always speaks for the Social Democrats. I've got the Seko magazine. It's very red. To these members, the Minister for Infrastructure could really have said that he is passionate about them and their security and that he has the following proposals that are great. However, the Minister for Infrastructure chose to spend most of the time laying a lot of smoke curtains and not taking the issue seriously. I find it sad and that the Minister almost pretends that the problem does not exist. To say that it is unacceptable – yes, you can say that about blasts and other things. You didn't see it coming. But I think the government is acting tone-deaf. I would really like to know: are the measures contained in the answer the only thing that the government has to come up with? It is about camera surveillance and the National Council for Railway and Public Transport Protection, which cooperates in security matters. It's a piece of advice that can't even google. You can't get it. If these are the most concrete measures that the government has to come up with, I find it very sad.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-764	Madam President, I would like Thanks again, Patrik Jönsson, for the commitment! I really appreciate that. I understand that Mr Seko, as a trade union organisation, often highlights the good work that social democracy or the government is doing in securing the rights and security of their members in the labour market. There are good reasons for that. We are both historically and nowadays the best managers of protection activities, who ensure that resources are provided to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, which does not close down the Swedish Work Life Institute and who do not want to remove the members' right to have the main safety representative or choose their safety representative. The Swedish democrats have not been on that side. They have chosen to cooperate with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. In the Riksdag, they have chosen to dismantle the protection activities within the Swedish Work Environment Authority. There is therefore a reason why the Swedish Democrats have not had such a good record in terms of the safety of employees in, for example, train traffic. That's why I appreciate Patrik Jönsson's commitment. I think it's important. I think it is important that everyone sees the need to increase the security of employees working in public transport. As Minister of Infrastructure, I am prepared to do what I can in my area of responsibility. I also note that a number of Patrik Jönsson's questions do not concern my area of responsibility, but mainly concern the responsibility of the Minister of Justice in relation to access bans and the like. Patrik Jönsson is very welcome to ask interpellations to the responsible Government for these questions. I would like to thank you for your commitment and for a good discussion on an important issue for the members of Seko and for us throughout society.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-769	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked me why Örebro County has been chosen as the county that will house the most wolves per square kilometre and whether I intend to work for a change so that there is not such unreasonably hard wolf pressure locally in Örebro County. The game administration has been regionalised in Sweden since 2010. It is the county administrative boards and the game management delegations that make decisions on and set out the guidelines for the game management in the county. It also includes decisions on the number of wolves. The country is divided into three predator management areas – the southern, central and northern. Örebro County is part of the central predator management area. The counties of a predator management area confer between themselves and allocate the number of vargrevir. This work takes place within the framework of the decided predatory policy, which sets the goal of Sweden achieving and maintaining a favourable conservation status for the predatory strains while not significantly hindering domestic animal husbandry and taking socio-economic considerations into account (prop. 2012/ 13:191 A sustainable predatory policy). According to the bill, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, after Parliament's treatment, would assess where the reference value for wolf would be within the range 170 – 270 individuals and report that value to the European Commission under the Species and Habitats Directive. Within this limit, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported that the reference value for the wolf population in Sweden should be at least 270 wolves. However, the population has had a higher inbreeding rate than is considered acceptable, and the vulnerability analysis underlying the reference value was criticised for not taking into account genetic aspects. In 2015, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency ( nature conservation agency) was asked to update the analysis on the basis of a broad scientific basis and, on the basis of the new analysis, to investigate what is required for the population to be considered as having favourable conservation status. Based on the analysis, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has assessed that at least 300 wolves are needed and that at least one immigrant wolf from Finland or Russia reproduces with a Scandinavian wolf every five years in order for the population to have favourable conservation status. This year no license hunting was carried out and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency assesses from the latest inventory results, including that some protection hunting will be allowed, that there is no space for license hunting even in the upcoming hunting season. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has therefore decided not to delegate the possibility of making decisions on the licensing of wolves to the county administrative boards. The reason for this is that the number of wolves is at the same level as the reference value for favourable conservation status. It is important that decisions continue to be taken at local and regional level.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-775	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Government for its answer. Wolf and predator policy should be based on facts. But it seems to be mostly a romantic view à la Yellowstone National Park that is the prevailing view of government wolf politics. Let me explain why I see it this way! The Swedish Parliament has decided that Sweden should have a population of 170 – 270 wolves. From the Moderates we have recommended 170, but it is between 170 and 270 wolves. If the population becomes larger, according to the Riksdag's decision, you should allow a hunting of wolves. This level is based on the fact that the Swedish wolf tribe is strongly inbred. A large number of wolves are needed to secure the number of genetics. There is also a need for the addition of new wolves via immigration, preferably from Russia. In this way, Swedish wolf policy is built up. Madam President, I would like Now there are 300 wolves, according to last year's calculations. Despite this, wolf hunting in vargät areas will not be allowed this year. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency thus holds a higher wolf tribe in the country than the Riksdag has decided. It is a strange phenomenon, since all works are subject to the Riksdag's decisions. At the same time, wolves are allowed to be shot quickly via protection hunting in non-variable counties. Madam President, I would like Örebro County, which represents 1.8 or possibly 1.9 per cent of the land area in Sweden, currently houses between 45 and 50 wolves. 20 per cent of the Swedish wolf tribe is located in Örebro County, and there are eleven territories that are more or less stationary and have hunting grounds in our county, even though the county is geographically an average of Sweden. This wolf density is a big load to carry. Madam President, I would like In addition, the county is located in the middle of the country, which means that all potential new wolf genes must come via wolves who walk through other counties in order to be able to get puppies with wolves in Örebro County. In a debate with the Minister for Rural Development on 6 December, the minister argued that the wolf would be where it would do the least harm. Why the government through its county boards then selected Örebro County as the county that will carry the largest wolf pressure per square kilometre is extremely unclear. There is no parliamentary decision to make it look like this. We know that the number of vargrevir is increasing. It also has consequences. Despite the fact that all means of wolf fences are consumed in our county, our sheep farmers have not managed to keep the wolf outside the pastures. Therefore, several are now ending their activities. Dogs are killed by wolves during hunting. It's very tragic. Last time it happened this weekend in Hällefors. Is this how you look at the future of rural areas? If so, why have Örebro County been selected to pay the highest price for the Swedish wolf tribe? Madam President, I would like Swedish predatory policy must be based on democratic foundations. The parliamentary decisions taken must be implemented. If the government then chooses to unilaterally allow certain counties to bear the full responsibility for the survival of the wolf, it must explain why. Furthermore, if, as in the Minister's reply, you choose to make this a purely local decision, it is a way of ducking from responsibility. I know that Örebro County has not expressed any desire to take this responsibility. The wolf is a national responsibility and not a county responsibility.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-784	Madam President, I would like There is now an acute situation in the central predator management area, to which both Örebro and Gävleborg belong. We have an unprecedented predatory pressure. I cannot rule out that this is because the government has allowed the Green Party to veto these issues for five years. This is an untenable situation, Madam President. Last week I was in Vallsta. I'll tell the government where Vallsta is. It is located north of Dalälven, in Gävleborg County, 130 km north of Gävle towards Jämtland. That's where we arranged a corporate meeting. We met entrepreneurs who are sheep farmers or have free school with riding. We met an entrepreneur who's been working in the woods for 47 years. I noted, Madam President, that last Christmas the Government said in an interview that she thinks the hunt for protection works well. I would recommend the Government to go to Vallsta or Delsbo, meet entrepreneurs who are sheep farmers and have had predator attacks and look them in the eye. Look Kjell in the eye and say: Protection hunting works well, and predator policy works well! This is not the reality. It is not the reality of the sheep farmer who lies at night and hears the wolves howl. In Hälsingland between Ljusdal and Bollnäs there is a wolf pack of about 14 wolves. In Gävleborg County, Madam Speaker, according to the County Administrative Board, there are 90 wolves on a very limited area. Just as the Government says in its reply, the Riksdag's decision does not mean that domestic animal husbandry should be significantly impeded and that socio-economic considerations should be taken into account. There are two powerful signals in the predator bill adopted by Parliament in 2012/ 13. When you meet Kjell, Sigrid and other entrepreneurs who are active in this area, you are most distressed by their concerns and their stories about how they experience the situation. We have no problems with predators, they say. We shall have a balanced discussion, says one of the entrepreneurs, and a balanced situation, but this has gone beyond control. It can't be reasonable, says one of the entrepreneurs, that I lie sleepless at night because I'm terrified that my sheep farm will be attacked. Another entrepreneur tells about when the students are riding in the woods and other predators come. In this case, it was the bear you'd seen. I don't think the bear attacks the horses or a wolf does. Of course, just the running of the horses would be a terrible situation. I think it would be appropriate for the government and the rural minister to take the extended hand of the Moderates. In a debate before Christmas, the Moderates handed out their hand to the Social Democrats and said: "We are prepared to support any decision that the government intends to make and which makes us go to 170 wolves in Sweden. We are prepared to support any government initiative. I would like to know whether the Minister for Rural Development is prepared to take the outstretched hand.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-791	Madam President, I would like I thank Lotta Olsson very much for the interpellation. This is an issue that touches, arouses a lot of emotion and engages a lot of people – politicians, entrepreneurs and others. I am therefore grateful that we have many opportunities to debate this issue in this House. But if you are to have a serious discussion, it may seem that an interpellation debate in some sense is not the most appropriate form, given that it is very limited in time and that these are complex issues. Lotta Olsson highlighted several arguments in her speech. She referred to Parliament's decision on the matter, a decision that was made in broad agreement and says that we should have an orderly administration in Sweden. We shall have a wolf tribe with a favourable conservation status. An interval of 170 to 270 was specified, which has since been revised according to the concept of favourable conservation status to 300 including a rejuvenation every five years. To this we have an organisation that we have put in place to ensure that decisions on this are taken as regionally and locally as possible. We have three predator administrations, the south, the middle and the north. Then there are game management delegations led by the county governors who have representatives from civil society and other stakeholders who are involved in taking decisions linked to issues such as protection hunting and how any license hunting in the relevant years of licence hunting should be distributed. It is one way of trying to get the questions as close to people as possible. There is also a problem that needs to be considered. It is about that we do not own these questions all by ourselves in Sweden. That is the spirit of the debate. In addition to the decisions that have been made in the Swedish Parliament and how we have chosen to organise, these are issues that are included under what is called the EU's Species and Habitats Directive. It clearly stipulates that it should be beneficial conservation status. Sweden has an infringement case that is pending and that has not been effective at the moment but can be enforced at any time. We have to relate to what is an EU regulatory framework in this area. This means that it is not as simple as that we can say that we think you should have 170 wolves, 270 wolves or a number at all. What is important to me as a minister on this matter is that we have a good dialogue. This applies both to a good political dialogue but also to as good a dialogue as possible with the people concerned. We have a great need to try to build legitimacy linked to the predator issue. It is a question of getting away as much as possible from the sometimes purely emotional debates that exist. This applies not least to the fact that there are incidents, such as the one mentioned by Lars Beckman that a dog is torn down or something else. It rips up a lot of emotions, and I have great respect for that. Having emotional debates, no matter what kind of emotion is left to control, will not move the matter forward. What is important is that we find the scientific bases that we need to be able to make wise decisions. It is important to identify the areas where we can work on this issue in a constructive way in order to build legitimacy and achieve the best possible dissemination throughout the country. It is also part of the parliamentary decision that was taken and that is also firmly established in the future.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-799	Madam President, I would like It is not only what legislation is decided on that is important. It is also how to apply it. When legislation is applied as it is now done with predatory legislation, people do not trust politics. If we are to have a viable wolf strain in Sweden at all, the government must come up with proposals on how to achieve a fairer distribution. The Social Democrats tend to have justice as their parade branch. Now we are talking about fairness in the distribution of the wolf population. If the same wolf density were applied as in Örebro County, Sweden would have 2,500 wolves. We cannot have legislation that is applied a little as we like in our authorities. We cannot have the responsible minister who ducks and sends the responsibility down in the organization. A minister must assume overall responsibility. If the application of the regulatory framework does not work, new regulations must be created. It is not more difficult than that, Madam President. Örebro County is not Yellowstone National Park, although the area is almost the same. Örebro County has 304 000 inhabitants. There are many urban areas, a large rural population and active agriculture. As Sweden, Örebro County has 70 per cent of its area covered by forest. The Swedish government must assume its responsibility for the wolf population. It can't just some counties do that. We must conserve the resources of nature and our earth. We cannot just see the countryside as a national park and without paying anything for it allowing the wild predators to exist and grow in numbers. We need our earth and our forest to also feed people on the table. Without viable agriculture and good husbandry, many other natural values will be destroyed. Who will want to run sheep farming, for example, when much of the working time and resources go to keep the wolf away? Because that's exactly what it looks like in some parts of my country. We have had a responsible hunting corps in our county who understood that there was a decision to follow in the predatory area. But it is not reasonable that it is these very hunters who, to a greater degree than others, should lose their hunting dogs because of a too large and hungry wolf tribe. If the state cannot assume its responsibility for the Swedish wolf tribe, Örebro County cannot do so either. We must greatly reduce the number of wolves. We can't have the 170 individuals that the country can house if they're all supposed to be in our county. As Lars Beckman said, there are four other counties. It is the five counties that have all of Sweden's wolves.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-807	Madam President, I would like When I was in Vallsta, which is located in Hälsingland, there was not so much emotion there. It is entrepreneurs who appeal for them to be able to run companies throughout Sweden. It is entrepreneurs who appeal to be able to protect their animals. It is entrepreneurs who say: We want to be able to work here in internal Hälsingland. It was a balanced debate and a balanced discussion. It was the word a balance that was used. We need a balance in predatory pressure. We don't mind predators, they said. But it is not reasonable that there are 90 wolves on such a limited surface. It affects people. In this case, it was entrepreneurs who are active and create jobs in their home country. They also told of the family of children who are worried about letting their children out. They told me about the headmaster who had said: "We can't go on a forest trip. I can't take responsibility for the safety of the preschool class in the woods if there's a wolf pack of 14 wolves. An entrepreneur who had worked in Hälsingland for 47 years said: I'm worried about my own safety. After the meeting we had in Vallsta, I was called by another entrepreneur, who said: I am responsible for staffing my employees. I've done a security analysis. How can I deliberately send our associates into the woods when there is this predatory pressure? Madam President, I would like That's the reality. It has nothing to do with emotion. The Moderates have stretched out a hand to the government and the Social Democrats and said: Let us work for a wolf tribe of 170 wolves. I wish the Government would take the outstretched hand.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-812	Madam President, I would like I object a little bit to the description given by the government and the responsibility it takes. I note that since 2010, we have had two governments that have had two full terms of office and have worked with the bill that is now in place. If you go in and look at how many licence hunts, for example, were carried out during the various terms of office, you can see that 98 licence hunts were carried out during the previous term of office, which was S-MP-driven, and 22 licence hunts during the previous term of office, which were alliance-led. There have been 118 protection hunts in 2010 – 2018. Last year, 2019, there were over 15 protection hunts. My view is that both the government and the authorities take responsibility for the tools they have at their disposal within the framework of the regulatory framework that we have to deal with within the EU. I can only say that both Lotta Olsson and Lars Beckman choose to ignore the fact that we do not have our own national competence in this area and that they ignore the fact that Sweden, for example, cannot decide to have a specific level that would mean that we do not have a favourable conservation status on our wolf tribe in Sweden. Anyone who wants to be serious about this has to deal with it. Having said that, of course, it is not that you do not have to continue working on the questions. During the last parliamentary term, we took the decision to introduce an urgency requirement for appeals. We listened to the criticism that the county boards handled the issue differently and set up a joint appeal court, which was assigned to Luleå, to ensure legal certainty. There is every reason to look further at how to work with the inventory, which is being questioned from and to. Further consideration should be given to how it is implemented and how to work constructively to find ways to obtain a better inventory, which could also gain greater legitimacy. Given that, as I have mentioned several times, this is an issue that is linked to the directive on species and habitats that the European Union has, I can see that within the framework of this work there is a review that is now under way. Sweden will reply to this in January. What the Commission is proposing in this area is not in line with what the Moderates are proposing in this debate. It is more likely that Sweden will think that there is reason to lift up our specific conditions linked to the fact that we have the Sami and reindeer industries to take into account together with Finland, which is different from other countries. We have cultural heritage and other things that need to be dealt with in this context. So we need to monitor the issues in very many different directions. At the same time, I have great respect for the need to find tools to be able to sparse out. The problem is that as long as we're as close to 300 wolves as we are right now, in the middle of or possibly something underneath, it's hard to see how to sparse out in a good way. Nevertheless, we see that the wolf is now spreading. It is now established in Södermanland and Östergötland, which it has not done before.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-822	Madam President, I would like This is absolutely not about whether we should have wolf or not. I think I've been extremely clear about that, and it's not about feelings. But we have to have rhymes and reason. It is not good enough for such a powerful population to exist in our country. I really need to stand up for that. Unless the Minister for Rural Development, who is supposed to protect our countryside, does, I do not know who in the government we are going to talk to instead. I have the task of pursuing a reasonable policy on predators. If we are to have acceptance for our predators, it is important for both the Minister and me that we have rhymes and reason in this. There is an understanding that there should be wild animals, but they must not be in large flocks and they must not be too dense. At least when there are 14 wolf individuals in a pack, I have learned that there are some who are still at home with Mom and Dad. They haven't been able to leave home because it's too crowded. It's just like with people. Madam President, I would like I very much hope that the Minister will take this on board and help us. I do not think that we should put the inhabitants of Örebro County in a situation where they must pursue poaching in order to tackle the problem. It is the government's responsibility to deal with this. We have taken a national responsibility for the wolf, but it cannot be handled from Örebro County. Now we say stop; now the government has to take this on. If it is to come to new genes, perhaps one must also be even more strict about allowing wolves in the middle of the country. Then it is on the outskirts of our country that you have to be more careful that the wolf is allowed to walk and not in the middle of the country. There will be no wolf from Finland to Örebro County without passing any other county.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-828	Madam President, I would like Again: According to Union law, the wolf is strictly protected. The assessment is that we can't go below 300 individuals. However, there is a great interest both in the government and in others in doing what we can to ensure that we have the right tools in place and that we can sparse out. If we are to sparse out, however, it requires that there is something to shoot off that is over 300, and that is the big problem here and now. I can also say that it is gratifying that we now see that the wolf is spreading to other counties, because that is a prerequisite. I have the greatest respect for making great demands on politics and on a minister. But it is very difficult both as a politician and as a minister to place wolves in a specific area. There are great things here that we have to relate to. It concerns both the commitment we have as members of the European Union, for which we cannot duck, and the commitment we have to our citizens in Sweden. They should of course feel that we are doing what we can to have a good administration that means that we have wolf. I am pleased that the honourable Member emphasises that the debate is not about the wolf's commodity or not being, because it is not optional in this context. It is, however, about how we work to find tools to gain legitimacy for the predatory policy that we have and that we get as good a spread as possible. I have presented a number of different measures that are being taken, and I am happy to receive constructive ideas and thoughts about whether there is anything that could be done in addition to what we have presented. The issue is important, and I suspect that this is not the last time we are debating it.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-833	Madam President, I would like Elin Segerlind has asked me whether I intend to take steps to phase out the Swedish fur farming system or to have it phased out. Let me begin by stating that we have strong animal welfare legislation in Sweden. Since April 2019 we have a new animal welfare law in place. The new law clarifies that animals should be kept and managed in a good animal environment and in such a way that they can carry out behaviours for which they are strongly motivated and which are important for their well-being. The law also clarifies that behavioural disorders should be prevented. For me and the government, it is important that the animal husbandry we have in Sweden lives up to the requirements of the law. This also applies, of course, to fur animals. This is also why, in addition to the work on the new Animal Welfare Act in January 2018, the Government commissioned the National Agricultural Agency to evaluate the welfare of minks in fur animal production. The assignment was given in light of previous problems in the field, but also on the basis of the efforts made by the industry and the regulations for changes made by the Swedish Board of Agriculture in 2012. The task of the Swedish Board of Agriculture also included considering the need for any changes to regulations or other measures to meet the natural behaviour of minks. The Swedish Board of Agriculture reported on its mission quite exactly a year ago. In its report, the Swedish Board of Agriculture notes that Swedish minks have generally improved since 2012, partly thanks to new animal welfare regulations, partly thanks to the fur industry's own animal care programme Minkhälsan. In the work on the Swedish Board of Agriculture's mission, the Scientific Council for Animal Welfare at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences contributed important data on current research into minks' natural behaviour and animal welfare. The Council's opinion shows that the Council considers that the scientific research available supports the rules introduced in the Swedish Agriculture Agency's 2012 regulations. In its accounting, the Swedish Board of Agriculture does not propose any changes to the rules for mink. The Swedish Board of Agriculture, on the other hand, believes that more research is needed on keeping mink in the systems in which they are currently held. If it is the case that future research shows that there are problems, the rules that exist will need to be reviewed. Our authorities are also working continuously to review their regulations. B animation of the requirements applicable to different species is made for each species individually and is based on science and proven experience. The Government states in the budget proposal for 2020 that the Swedish Board of Agriculture's accounting does not require any action from the Government. That position has not changed. My answer to Elin Segerlind is therefore that at present I do not intend to take any steps to phase out or have an investigation carried out into the phasing out of Swedish fur farming.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-840	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The welfare of minks is not a new issue for discussion in this House or among us who protect the welfare of animals. There seems to be a common thread between the issues that the Minister and I are debating here. Norway recently decided to ban domestic fur farming. This means that Norway is now one of the 15 countries in Europe that have decided to phase out or ban fur farming. Early in making the same decision was the United Kingdom, where it has been banned since 2003. Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands and Austria, as well as countries outside Europe, such as New Zealand and Japan, have already taken the decision or are phasing out their fur farming. These countries show that it is possible to add the furry animal industry to history and take an important step into the future – if only the political will exists. Then let's put the picture. In Sweden, about 1 million minks live in cages without the opportunity to swim, play, run or live under natural circumstances. We do not know today how the unnatural environment in the cage affects animals in full. The fact that we do not know is one of the conclusions of the report from the Swedish Board of Agriculture. We need more knowledge in order to be able to say that animals live a full life. In his reply, the Minister refers to research. We need more research. But it becomes clear when you read among other things the Scientific Council's referral that the research that exists is dated, fragmented and not in all situations relevant to the Swedish mink industry. What is it that indicates that, in the future, it will be a boom for research that will give us all the answers we need? How will this improve conditions for mink in the near future or even in the coming decades? The Scientific Council raises many questions that cannot be answered at present on the basis of existing research. This means that we cannot say for sure that the animals are suffering, but it also means that we can say with just as little certainty that the animals are doing well. The Swedish Board of Agriculture points out that the Scientific Council sees advantages in the Swedish way of keeping mink compared to other countries. At the same time, however, the Council wants to see an evaluation of the new Swedish regulations, and this should clearly be done. When we talk about fishing quotas, and the Minister knows that I like to do this, we often talk about the precautionary principle. It is a reasonable principle to stick to when you do not know for sure what the situation of a species looks like or what decisions you make risk affecting that species. That is the case here. Several countries have already noted the same, and I am surprised that the Minister and the Government are not at all willing to take the matter further. A decision to phase out fur farming would affect the 60 or so Swedish companies that currently keep animals in cages to sell fur. However, with responsible decommissioning over a longer period of time and with support during the transitional period, good conditions are provided for the reorganisation of operations. Dismantling requires taking into account individual entrepreneurs. This is an issue that has broad support from the Swedish people – eight out of ten Swedes want to see a ban on the rearing of animals in cages for the fur's sake, and last March the Minister himself received a petition with over 100,000 signatures for a ban on fur farming in Sweden. No, Madam President, I do not understand the government's recurrent inaction on animal rights issues.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-851	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Elin Segerlind, for the question! It feels good that we are many in the Swedish parliament and government who think that animal welfare issues are very important. I am proud and pleased that we adopted updated animal welfare legislation as late as April 2019. But I share Elin Segerlind's view that, when we have made different decisions about laws and other things, we still need to have a continuous and constant evaluation of whether the tools we have are effective and live up to what was the intentions of politics when they were put in place. At the same time, I note that when the latest legislation in this area was adopted, it was based on an investigation aimed at investigating and proposing ways of strengthening animal welfare. That investigation did not in any specific way highlight the situation of minks or fur farming as something that was pinged on. Nevertheless – or even perhaps because of this – the previous government decided to allow the Swedish Board of Agriculture to have a specific task to examine and make proposals related to mink farming. It was also done in an investigation that was reported about a year ago. The Board of Agriculture used the Scientific Council. For me as the minister responsible, it is an awfully important tool in these contexts, because as much as I want and think that you should have a fantastically good piece of legislation in place in all areas that lie in my portfolio, I think it is important to make decisions that, as far as possible, are always based on scientific facts, tried and tested methods or something else that shows both what has been and what is reasonable in this context. Despite the use of the Scientific Council, it was concluded that the provisions in place in this area since 2012 are reasonable. At the same time, it was noted that it reached its recommendations and conclusions on the basis of existing research. Here I share Elin Segerlind's concern, and I would like to see more research in this area. We have earmarked SEK 12 million from the Government within the Research Council Formas specifically for research in the field of animal welfare. However, we have not told you exactly what to do in research. We do this very rarely in Sweden. It's going to be a lot more for us to go in and direct research that way. Instead, it is based on the fact that, in competition with various projects, the funding available is sought to ensure that the results of the research carried out are of sufficient quality. I would very much welcome high-quality research projects in this area which can either strengthen the perception of the regulatory framework in place today or provide clear and concrete evidence for evaluating and developing policy in this area. We don't have that right now.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-859	Madam President, I would like We know how minks behave in natural environments, and we know that minks exhibit stereotypical behaviors such as pacing and fur chewing in captivity. We know that more than half of the checks carried out by the county boards have revealed shortcomings. The Scientific Council also states in its referral that it is possible to eliminate certain behavioural disorders but not all. Further research could perhaps take us a few more steps and make the welfare of minks a little better, but that does not solve all the problems. I will come back to what I said earlier – that the Council, in its referral, in no way gave the green light to breed fur animals in cages. You didn't say it's okay, let's go, it's fine as it is. There is not enough evidence to say that the welfare of animals is good, and therefore we should start from the precautionary principle in the first place and, in the second place, take measures to ensure that animals have good welfare. Investigating the welfare of minks is at best a compromise. For me it is really uninteresting if the research would show that minks would feel a little better with access to water baths or that they would feel a little better if they were fed three times a day. It is still a wild predator in cages, and to get the same standard of living in a small cage as in the wild I find difficult to see as a real opportunity. I do not know what makes the Minister and the Government afraid to take the step of banning this activity. As I said, several countries have already gone ahead: the United Kingdom, Austria, Japan, Croatia, the Netherlands, Denmark, Slovenia and many more. In the United States, California has decided to ban sales. Gucci and Prada, to name but two large fashion houses, have decided to ban fur in their collections. The two largest department store chains, Macy and Bloomingdale, have concluded that they will be fur-free in 2020. Why? Because it is not the time to be for the rearing of animals in cages. Sales of fur also continue to decline. It is therefore also reasonable to give a clear signal to the industry that this is a product that we no longer want to see developed in Sweden and to give them support in phasing out their business. The Swedish Research Council recommends that an evaluation be carried out. Of course we can evaluate this to the days of death, but in the end it is about animals in cages. Animals in cages will never have an adequate standard of living.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-866	Madam President, I would like I think it is extremely important that we maintain that we should have good animal husbandry in Sweden. I think we should be proud that we are forerunners in this area. We probably have the most stringent animal welfare legislation in the world, and it should apply to all animals. It admits that you have fur animals in cages, that is, the mink farming that exists, under certain conditions. We have on several occasions strengthened the requirements for animal husbandry to be considered good. Among other things, requirements have been introduced for etage cages with climbing possibilities and for there to be richer environments. There should be environmental enriching elements such as tubes, balls, branches, wheel wheels and so on. This is important. It is also important to continue to be prepared to evaluate the tools available and to encourage research. I think it is still important that we have research as a basis for our decisions. Elin Segerlind said in his post that the Swedish Research Council did not give the green light – no, not for one or the other, which is perhaps the clearest indication that more research would be needed in this area. I can only hope that we will see more of this. I can also note that the Swedish Board of Agriculture, as a step in ensuring that we have a good evaluation in this area, was commissioned in January 2018 to have a special report for minks for that year. According to the report published last year, there is a positive trend: overall, deficiencies in installations have decreased. I also think it is a good thing that the Swedish mink industry organisation itself tackles some of these problems. A code has been established which all member companies must comply with in order to organise themselves. This is a compulsory animal welfare programme, which includes three to four veterinary visits per year and some other things. I think that these are important steps in the right direction. Elin Segerlind also describes the general trend in demand. It speaks well that we may see a decrease in interest in being an entrepreneur in this area. It remains to be seen. Of course, it is a good thing that we have a lively debate in which we constantly talk about the benefits, problems, challenges and opportunities of each industry. This is something that can also be linked to this particular industry.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-874	Madam President, I would like The market may take us a bit along the way but certainly can't solve everything. The market is both slow and sometimes quite stupid, so there will always be those who continue with the fur trade. Letting the market handle this implies that you're not really so big about it disappearing here and now, or maybe you think it should fade away a little bit in the quiet. But why drag it out? Why let millions of more minks live in bad conditions and die so that we can wait for the market to handle this? I think we're capable of doing this ourselves. As the Minister says, we do not have the green light for either one or the other. That is why I am once again insisting on the precautionary principle. When we do not know how our decisions affect a species, we should be careful to make decisions that may harm it. We are not forerunners at this point. If we had been forerunners, we would have decided to ban and joined the 15 other European countries that have already done so. In the end, as I said, this is about animals in cages. Animals in cages will never have the same welfare as animals living in the wild. It's as simple as that. We can do research as long as we feel that it makes sense, but it will not solve all the problems that exist.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-879	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elin Segerlind, for your commitment! It is quite clear that the honourable Member is passionate about these issues, and I find it very refreshing with Members who are so obviously involved in political matters. However, I do not share Elin Segerlind's analyses in all parts. We have had mink and fur breeding in Sweden for more than a hundred years, and all the decisions that have been made in modern times have been aimed at making it better for the animals. I think we have taken major steps of this kind, linked both to the animal welfare legislation and to the regulations we have had and to a separate investigation that has been carried out in this area. We also have a clear transparency that we welcome more research and are prepared, if we get new facts on the table, to act accordingly. Elin Segerlind states, of course, quite correctly, that animals in cages do not live in the same way as animals in nature. This applies to all animals that in one way or another do not live in their natural environment, that is, in nature, but live in cages or otherwise. However, the step to establishing that domestic animals should not be kept is very long. It is a fine balance to constantly find reasonable ways to ensure that we can have livestock farming in many different ways while ensuring good animal welfare. This is an issue on which I will work all the time, and I welcome initiatives and debates in this area.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-883	Madam President, I would like Saila Quicklund has asked me whether I intend to amend regulations on reindeer owners' losses due to predator attacks, which according to bill 2012/ 13:191 A sustainable predator policy should be a maximum of 10% according to the request made by the Sameting on 18 January 2018, and, if the government works for a constitutional change, what the timetable is. The request concerns amendments to the regulation on the management of large predators and to the hunting regulation. In brief, the Association proposes that the Regulation should address the concept of tolerance in order to regulate it. Preparation of the case is ongoing in the Government Office. The issue is complex and is linked to several issues of game management that need to be carefully analysed and considered. I cannot anticipate that process.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-885	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for everything! Another Member just had a debate on minks in cages. I just have to comment on some of what came out there. The Minister is talking about an investment of 12 million in research on minks in cages and so on. At the same time, we have reindeer that are tormented extremely difficult. There's a strange difference. Decisions must also be taken locally. Well, the problem is that decisions are not made locally. The county administrative boards claim that it is too much predatory pressure, but the government does not listen to it, nor does the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. We do not want an emotional debate, the Minister said earlier. But these are facts, they are not emotions! We're trying to describe reality. For a very long time there has been a discussion about the high predatory pressure in some counties. I will refer to my county, Jämtland County, in the debate, but there are the same problems in other counties too, of course. The situation has long been totally unacceptable. This is an important nutrition and the situation presents difficulties for the nutrition and suffering of reindeer and domestic animals killed by wolves and other predators. Before Christmas, I and another Member of Parliament organised a seminar here in the Riksdag where we had invited Tåssåsens Sami Village from Jämtland. They described the difficulties. It's a shame you can't have Powerpoint images here, because it was very illustrative, and they were very clear in their presentation of how big the problems are. They try to carry on a business like their ancestors have done, and they also want their children to be able to continue doing so, but it is highly threatened with the situation that is. That is totally unacceptable. One wonders what knowledge the Minister has in this area because the situation is remarkable and we do not see any action. The government has to start listening-- that's just the way it is-- and it has to happen now. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency announced in May that it had decided on a new minimum level for wolf in Sweden. For the first time, a wolf rejuvenation is allowed in Jämtland County, for example. The new minimum level for the wolf tribe in Sweden is set at 30 rejuvenations, wolf litters, or about 300 wolves. So it's an extension of the wolf tribe. I can't believe it! The Parliament has decided on 170 – 270 wolves in Sweden, and the Moderates then recommend 170. How can the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency depart from that decision? Once again, authorities make their own decisions and round the Riksdag. When the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has decided on minimum levels, has it been based on where the vargrevir is today? The decisions have been met with great anger from the Sami side because it is believed that vargrevir in the county threatens the reindeer industry. This rejects the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. You see the contrasts there. There is always the possibility of protection hunting, says the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. It is strange that this argument is used – we have a high predatory pressure, but we refer to protection hunting. Protection hunting is also appealed many times by the Nature Conservation Association or other associations. The County Administrative Board in Jämtland County is not satisfied with the decision of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Why does the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency not listen to the state's extended arm, i.e. the county administrative board? The Minister wants local decisions. My question is really: What does the Minister think about the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency making its own decisions and abandoning Parliament's decisions?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-898	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Saila Quicklund, for the interpellation! It is in some parts similar and in other parts different from the interpellation that we debated a short while ago. Part of the answer I gave then is relevant in this context as well. Saila Quicklund refers to the parliamentary decision. I would like to remind you that the parliamentary decision that has been taken is that we should have a wolf with favourable conservation status. Parliament sets a limit of 170 – 270 wolves. It has later been reconsidered according to what is a scientific basis. The value that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency uses given the scientific basis is 300 wolves to achieve favourable conservation status. We also have a demand from the EU for us to have favourable conservation status. We'll have rejuvenation connected to it. I note that what is raised by the interpellier and which is new in this debate compared to the one we had a little while ago is the decision of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency last year that there should be a wolf rejuvenation in the reindeer husbandry area in Jämtland County. The reindeer husbandry area has previously been the exception, and the governor also asked for that decision to be reconsidered. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency then decided that the decision should be upheld, and Sametinget appealed against that decision. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency considered that the decision in itself was not prohibitive but nevertheless chose to hand it over to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for decision. They have not yet been notified. It is clear that, as politicians, residents of Jämtland County or citizens, you can in any way and in any way have opinions about such a process. However, I think it would be unfortunate if politicians in parliament or government took over the decision at a detailed level as to how to regulate the wolf population and where the wolves should be. We have to set frameworks and guidelines. The Riksdag has done the same. I think it is very important that we continue to work on developing methods and tools to ensure good dissemination throughout the country, that we develop methods for inventory and so on given the framework that we have to relate to. This applies to both parliamentary decisions and EU directives. When we talk about reindeer husbandry areas, the example here was wolf, but there are more predators that affect this area. For example, when it comes to bears, wolverines and loes, we have in recent years had a licence hunt. They are also covered by the same Directive, but where is the assessment that they have favourable conservation status. In the case of wolf, it is not assessed as having favourable conservation status. Then the protection hunt is the alternative, so that you can ensure that you live up to the intention of Parliament's decisions and the EU directive. Now I see that my speaking time is up. I will have to elaborate on this in my next speech.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-905	Madam President, I would like I am not opposed to favourable conservation status and rejuvenation, but if the consequences are devastating for an important industry and for animals that are damaged and tormented, decisions must be reconsidered. That's where I want to go. Politicians should not take over the decisions, says the Minister. Then I do not understand where the Minister wants the decisions to be made. It will be a little strange, and I have the feeling that the Minister will be relieved of responsibility in this matter. I'd like to describe what a predator invasion can look like. Samebyn has stakes on reindeer, and they are followed via computers or phones. In an attack by a predator, they see that the pack moves differently. They then go to the current place to see what happened. If you then discover traces of wolf, a protection hunting application is made to the county administrative board. If it is granted, the hunt starts, i.e. if the conditions exist. Unfortunately, then, associations such as Nature Conservation Association have appealed against the decision, and then days or weeks may pass before the decision comes that it is okay to hunt. Of course, it's devastating. When the wolf enters the reindeer, they disperse in different directions. They can take miles away, and collecting them again can be an extremely demanding job that can take up to several weeks. The reindeer is very easily frightened and difficult to work with. It also does not want to go back to the place where it has experienced the trauma. It also happens that the wolf damages the reindeer, mainly in the rear part. The injuries, which I've seen many photos of, are terrible. It's skin hanging down from the thighs. It's a regular picture. It's a major hemorrhage that causes the reindeer to bleed to death. That the wolf takes sick and old animals is a tale that remains today. It's not like that. Nor is it possible to find out about these animals. It's another loss to the reindeer owners. A wolf hunt for protection costs the Sami people about $100,000. It's about helicopter and personnel on the hill, and it's about locating the wolves before the helicopter can be deployed. Costs that follow the hunt for protection are borne by the reindeer owner himself – it is about the gathering together and injured reindeer that must be killed. The compensation has been fixed for 20 years. The losses for the Sami people are estimated at approximately 100 million. Today we have about 51 Sami villages and 250 000 reindeer. They slaughter about 50,000 reindeer. 80 000 to 100 000 reindeer should be slaughtered, but they have disappeared, and of course many times the predators are responsible for that. All the figures I have now given describe everyday life for the Sami when they try to carry out their important nutrition. It's about the losses, the expenses, etc. I have to ask: does the Minister think this is reasonable for the people who are trying to carry out this industry?
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-913	Madam President, I would like These are difficult and complex issues. It is awfully important to have a very clear focus on finding good and constructive ways forward, where we relate to what we have to relate to. I am very pleased that Saila Quicklund is clear that she respects the concept of favourable conservation status in this context. It is not obvious in these debates that we want to listen to science. We also have to relate to the existing directive on species and habitats, which means that we do not have full national competence in this area. Having said that, however, I think there are a number of issues raised in this round of lines that are important to take into account. I would like to see us take a holistic approach to these issues. I note that, for example, the governors of the three predator administrations and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have requested that the minimum levels for each predator species be set per predator management area rather than, as it is today, per county. This could lead to greater flexibility and facilitate the spread across wider geographical areas in order to reduce concentration. Then we can also take more clearly into account, for example, reindeer nutrition. It is interesting, and we will come back to that. I also note that the governors of the northern predatory area have called for the level of compensation for the reindeer losses caused by predators to be increased. It is quite correct that it has not been raised in years. It is paid annually about SEK 55 million for the loss of reindeer, as it stands today. The same makes the assessment that the actual meat value is up to SEK 100 million. I think it is important to try to take a holistic approach to both these issues plus other issues. We are currently looking at the homes that have come in, both the one that was initially, which is linked to the interpellation, and those that I have now mentioned. The ambition is that we should return as soon as possible and that we should be able to give a comprehensive picture of how we land with these issues. My ambition is that it should be done in a constructive way. I hope that we can continue to have a constructive discussion on these issues. The problem of predatory animals – it is not only wolf, but also other predators – is important and important to everyone affected by it, but it has specific consequences for the reindeer industry, for example, in the way that the honourable Member described in a commendable way in his shift in line. This means that reindeer farming also needs to be heard in a good way on these issues when looking at the homes that are now on the government table.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-919	Madam President, I would like I want to make it clear that we don't say no to wolf. I remind the Minister that the Moderates advocate 170 wolves, the lowest level. There are three overarching objectives that dominate the Swedish carnivores administration. The second objective is to ensure a good coexistence between predators and humans, including industries. That is not the case today. In 2014, the government specifically indicated that the reindeer industry should not have damage caused by predators that exceed 10 percent of the winter herd after slaughter, which is the third overall goal. The 10% target has been decided here in the Riksdag. But there is neither follow-up nor action to improve something that is not being observed, because that is actually the case today. There are 30 – 40 per cent in some Sami villages, including Tåssåsen in Jämtland County. How can such things actually happen? We have a 10% target, and the actual figure is 30-40%. This cannot be news for the government. I do not see how parliamentary decisions are ignored or not followed up and evaluated when we see that they do not comply. The government and the authorities don't listen to the county boards. They're actually the state's extended arm. They are concerned and have local knowledge, as the Minister previously stressed was important. It is far too high predatory pressure, and it is devastating for an important nutrition and for people operating within it. The government must begin to act here and now. This debate has been going on for a very long time, but there are no measures. The Minister refers to further processing – it's devastating.
i-fc4b3977e99ad15d-924	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to belong to a government that has acted on this issue, unlike the alliance government that existed from 2006 to 2014. One can look at how the licence hunt has developed and how practices and tools have developed in this area. All the effective measures have been taken during the last parliamentary term. It is about the introduction of a concept of urgency. It is a question of creating legal certainty. It is about starting work on developing the inventories in order to make them more legally secure. And we are currently dealing with the issue of taking a concerted approach to remuneration issues and minimum levels. All in all, that is more than what was achieved in the eight years that we had an alliance government. I am opposed to trying to make it appear that nothing is happening now but that something has happened before or that something would have happened if we had had another government. I am opposed to all the Moderates debating this issue claiming to be in order for us to have a favourable conservation status, but completely disregarding what the scientific evidence says, namely that we must have at least 300 in order to ensure a favourable conservation status. I also object to no moderate so far – I have now had debates with a few – wanting to know at all that this is an issue that is regulated within the EU's Species and Habitats Directive and that we in Sweden already have infringement cases given that we are very close to the limit of 300. They are trying to pretend that we have a freedom to make political decisions in Sweden that we have with no less than that we would be sued and risk quite strong sanctions in that area. Having said that, however, I welcome a debate aimed at continuing to develop the tools for developing legitimacy on this issue and also ensuring what I believe we ultimately want to achieve.
