i-e6e9a704e366421f-11	Madam President, I would like Martina Johansson has asked me if I and the government intend to take any initiatives to make it easier for victims to re-establish contact with their biological parents in Chile. In Chile, a criminal investigation is ongoing involving international adoptions from Chile to a number of countries in the 1970s and 1990s. The offence is the abduction of children and irregularities in adoption. I and the government take the events very seriously, and that is why we need to be clear about what has happened. Our Swedish central authority for international adopt ions – The Agency for Family Law and Parental Support, MFoF – has been in contact with the criminal investigation. We understand that the investigation so far has found that there have been procedures which show that there have been irregularities. This applies to the adoption of children until they leave Chile. We have also taken note of the Chilean parliamentary inquiry into the events, which confirms that children were systematically taken from their parents. I understand that it is terrible for all those who have been affected – for the adopted children, for the biological parents and for the adoptive parents. It is also, of course, a great psychological strain for those who still seek but do not get answers to their questions. Against this background, the Government decided on 19 December 2019 to instruct MFoF to carry out a pilot project on individual support for adopted people in connection with so-called ‘indigenous search'. Through the mission, the government wants to enable help to those individuals who want to seek their life history and find their roots. Clearing up can have a crucial impact on mental health. The aid is not limited solely to persons adopted from Chile but is available to all internationally adopted persons seeking their biological family.
i-HN8k15h2AESWW1ZTSRCoEU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lena Hallengren, for your answer! I am pleased that the Government and the Minister have also submitted an individual aid mission to the MFoF. It came in after I turned in my interpellation. In addition, the Authority has recently been tasked with reviewing education and support for municipalities and parents. But I regret that it has taken several years for the government to come up with this mission. This is not a new knowledge. The signals that this could be the case came to Sweden several years ago. For over two years, an investigation has been going on in Chile while victims from Chile tried to get the government and MFoF to act. During those years, those affected themselves have had to contact the adoption association that provided the adoptions and get them to produce their files. The victims have since had to send the files to the Chilean investigators themselves. So far, as far as I know, about 90 people have done this. Of course, there will be no more if information is not given that this has happened. Our authority could have been better at informing the people affected. The Chilean investigation does not go into individual cases unless a document has been sent. As a result, the investigations of these individuals will not proceed. There are suspicions that in many cases children have been kidnapped and adopted. Exactly how many are difficult to say, but there are suspicions that in Chile alone there can be about 600 people. This applies to those adopted to Sweden. There are far more among those adopted to other countries. The government has not been the driving force for the information on the situation to go out to the victims. Then more could have been involved now. It has been left to non-profit associations run by the adopted themselves. These associations have had to support each other, and in many difficult situations where they find that they have not been adopted voluntarily but have been stolen. In addition, biological parents have in some cases died. In Sweden, the Convention on the Rights of the Child is important and now law. It stipulates children's right to their origin, but in Sweden we have not helped. This is also the case in more countries where adoptions were suspected to have taken place in an irregular manner. Madam President, I would like Those who have lost their children in Chile, among others, are today old, and some have already died. Those adopted and their adoptive parents suffer twice when they cannot get in touch with the biological parents after they have learned that the children have been wrongly adopted. It is urgent for these families, if they want, to have a chance to reunite. I therefore wonder what the Minister says about the fact that it has taken so long for the government to act. Is there in the individual support now available for interpreters, telephone calls and information on the laws and regulations in force in the countries in question, so that the individual can receive real guidance in his or her application?
i-e6e9a704e366421f-24	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for an important question, Martina Johansson! In my role as Minister of Social Affairs, I have met the issue on a number of occasions in recent years. I don't know if I agree that so little has been done. As early as May 2018, the Authority visited Chile to engage in dialogue with the Chilean Central Authority, Sename, in order to ensure that those who are adopted and seeking their origins can receive as much information as possible. There was a meeting with the Swedish Embassy in Chile, with NGOs and with the investigator who then led the ongoing criminal investigation. The purpose was for us as a country to do everything we can to make things easier. In January 2019, i.e. a year ago, MFoF received information about 630 children adopted to Sweden, including 615 through the Adoption Centre. It has thus been an important task for MFoF to be helpful in the ongoing criminal investigation. Sweden is one of many countries affected by this tragedy, which it has to be said is, especially for those affected. In 2008, a proposal for a change in adoption rules was prepared. A bill was presented to the Riksdag in 2018. This is not the first time that the rules have changed since the mid-70s. Changes have been made. There is also a proposal for a commission to Statskontoret to review how to organise international adoption activities and how it can be adapted to today's circumstances. Many things look different today. There are, of course, issues that are about getting things right and right. Today, however, we also have a situation where fewer people can adopt and fewer people need to be removed. A lot is happening when it comes to the adopted. This also applies to the order we have in Sweden, with organisations that have been responsible. They have been important with their contacts and knowledge. But the reverse is that it is not a government authority that sits on all knowledge. I would like to conclude by saying that the MFoF as a state authority has been very committed and involved and done its utmost to assist in the extensive criminal investigation that is still ongoing in Chile.
i-e6e9a704e366421f-31	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I am aware that the authority has been in place. What is a major concern is that individuals have not received the support they need to make their root search a good one. They have not been able to reach and again, if they and the parents want to, meet the parents who once lost their children. This support has not been given to individuals, which has created great difficulties. They have been able to help each other in the non-profit associations and also meet these feelings and the ill health of those who are adopted to Sweden and get this knowledge. As the Minister says, the number of international adoptions is decreasing. I believe that in 2018 it was under 200 in total to Sweden from different counties. We basically have the same order today as we had already in the 70s, when we started adopting internationally, with these non-profit associations that handle adoptions. I look forward to some kind of response from Statskontoret about how we will work with these questions in the future. There is a lot to look at when it comes to who is responsible for the files, how to get hold of their documents about the non-profit association that helps with adoptions shuts down and where the information goes. I very much hope that there will be good proposals for solutions. The municipalities are currently obliged to help with root search and to support the individual family and individual when you come to Sweden. But it's also hard. For example, my municipality of residence has not had an international adoption in five years, and in this way the competence of municipalities to be able to assist with these things disappears. My thought is: what change would the Minister like to see in these situations so that it will not happen again that we have adoptions that are taking place in an unfavorable way?
i-e6e9a704e366421f-39	Madam President, I would like As a small line to Martina Johansson who says that it basically goes to the way it did in the 70's, I want to say that a lot has happened. In particular, we have the Hague Convention which Sweden ratified in 1997 and which, among other things, requires each country to have a responsible central authority with a clearly identified responsibility in accordance with the Convention, with guarantees to ensure that children are not taken away, that there is no trade and so on. In Sweden, d et MFoF is the central Swedish authority responsible for both authorisation and supervision. The responsibility is therefore not confined to the organisations involved in this. The organisations have been important – I really want to underline that. The contacts they have and the support they have been able to give each other within the organisation based on their own experience have been important. Today, there are three authorised adoption organisations, and there is only one, namely Adoption Centre, which offers an initial increase at cost to its members. This is a development that we have seen, and as the economic conditions of the organisations and their organisational strength have weakened, the state needs to meet in a different way than perhaps was the order that we thought was reasonable 20 years ago when we ratified the Hague Convention. Both the number of adoptions and the situation of adoption organisations have changed. I would also like to say that it is not least with the tough economic situation that many of the adoption organisations find difficult to place more responsibility on them, which is why MFoF has been given this task that we have been able to decide on. In fact, it is ho s Sename, which is the central authority that exists in Chile to oversee adoptions, that one should seek their original documents and so on. You should also be able to get help from there. How it works in practice has the Ministry of Social Affairs not actually received a really good report about. Nevertheless, there is reason to develop the type of aid that is now under MFoF, namely to look at a pilot project. Now the regulatory letter for 2020 is solid, but the ambition is of course that it will continue in 2021 when you know more about what is actually the best way to work to make it effective and respond to the needs of adoption applicants. I will answer one of the questions I missed in the first post. Martina Johansson asked what the money can be used for – it's about interpreters, phone calls, travel and so on. Precisely how the money is to be used is nothing that lies in the regulatory letter, but it should be a support that enables individuals to be able to search for their origins. We are talking here about Chile, but I think that Martina Johansson and I fully agree that this has brought the issue to light, and it is clear that the possibility of seeking its origins and its roots should exist for everyone regardless of the country from which they have been adopted. However, the Chilean situation is particularly special, and there is a need for special support.
i-e6e9a704e366421f-45	Madam President, I would like What I am referring to when I say that not so much has happened is how we work in the Swedish organisation with non-profit organisations that convey adoptions and that the responsibility lies with the municipalities. Then I am also aware of the Hague Convention, the certification work and the authority that it has done to examine and see which countries it is possible to adopt from. What I was referring to was that we have the order that we have Swedish adoption associations that convey and that also charge parents who adopt at cost price for administration and so on. It was good that the Minister came back to the answer to the question I asked – I also noticed that I missed following it up in my previous speech. A follow-up to my question is how the Minister will follow up on this and what individual support will look like for this individual because she has not received feedback from the Authority. I very much hope that this is something that the Minister will continue to follow. It is not only in Chile that illegal adoptions have been discovered. It affects a great many people, and I want to see that we have a order so that it works well for everyone in the future. Another consideration is when the Minister will let the Riksdag decide on how we will work with these issues in the future and whether we will retain the order that the responsibility for adoption agencies and how we support these families afterwards lies with the municipality and non-profit associations or whether it should be handled in other ways.
i-e6e9a704e366421f-49	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise once again to any listeners that it is not the case that the state does not take any responsibility, but an important part is to supervise and authorise which countries it is possible to adopt from. Basically, it requires that in a country that Sweden and Swedish parents have the opportunity to adopt from there is a system that we feel safe with. As fewer and fewer children need or can be adopted, fewer and fewer children in each country may also risk not having built up a really good organisation. This is an important part of MFoF's mission. In the case of the Chilean Central Authority of a Sename, they shall have a specific programme of search for origin. Many countries are now involved and involved in the Chilean organisation. I imagine that there is not a really good return from there yet. But of course I, the Ministry of Social Affairs and, above all, the MFoF, follow the issue closely. Again: The decision that has been made is that MFoF will now develop a model for how to have individual search of origin and how it should be possible to search for its roots and get a knowledge that we all want about our background. It often becomes more important over the years, which may also sometimes be the reason why it takes some time to search for this information and knowledge. It is all the more important that it is preserved and remains so that it is possible to search. MFoF has just received the assignment and will work in 2020 – I can see that they will be extended to 2021 – to develop such a model. At the appropriate time, it is, of course, possible to provide further information on this, perhaps on the occasion of a new interpellation, as I know.
i-e6e9a704e366421f-53	Madam President, I would like Mr Ankarberg Johansson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take in connection with the closure of the national aid line. The help line has been run by Inera with funding for the regions. It is the regions that have decided to close the Helpline. The closure is a consequence of the priorities of the regions around which services Inera will manage. This is the decision of the regions themselves. They have not submitted a request or indicated to the government that it would be a matter of state funding. The government assumes that the regions will integrate support measures into the regular care of the regions. The aim of the regions taking over care provider responsibility is to create better conditions for patient safety, quality, documentation and follow-up. During 2020, the Government's efforts in the prevention of suicide will increase. In total, the Government allocates SEK 50 million to organizations engaged in promotion or preventive work in the field of mental health and suicide prevention. The grant may be awarded to national organisations aimed at practitioners at regional and local level and to organisations of national interest. The aim of the grant is to support non-profit organisations working to promote and prevent mental health and suicide prevention, including with children and young people in migration. Another aim is to strengthen the organizations' development and competence building. The government's current strategy in the area of mental health applies between 2016 and 2020. The purpose of the Government's strategy is to create the conditions for long-term and strategic work, with joint responsibility within regular structures. The aim is to promote mental health, combat mental illness, strengthen early interventions to people affected by mental illness and improve the care and care of people with extensive needs for intervention.
i-e6e9a704e366421f-58	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for your answer. This is a rather special situation. We have had a well-functioning national help line. Then it has been closed, not because of political decisions or considerations, but on completely different premises. This makes responsibility difficult. Who is responsible for this? So the situation is tricky. But not for nothing, it is important to highlight the consequences of it and think about how we should think now. The national help line started about 20 years ago. It was the user movement itself that took the initiative and said that you need something here. The help line has now existed for a long time. For the past ten years, Sweden's Municipalities and Regions have accommodated it. It's been open every day at 10 a.m. 13 - 22. The caller has been able to do it anonymously. Even the person who has received the call, that is, the profession that has been there, has been anonymous. It's about professional, certified staff. It has been seen as a point that both sides have been able to remain anonymous. Healthcare professionals have been able to apply themselves, so there has been a point to this. A lot of parts have been really good. When the line is closed, it turns out that when you go into 1177's website you are referred to page up and page down by organizations that you can instead call to. When I printed it, I could count to three full pages of organizations. All of a sudden, the help seeker is standing there wondering, ‘ Where does what I feel right now and emergency? ' What are my symptoms? What diagnosis? All of a sudden, this became something completely different. The point of the national help line was that it was open every day. You could call for someone else's sake, someone who was about to take his own life; about two such calls a day have been. Even those who themselves have had to converse with someone have called. It is known that the conversation to the help line has made people feel that they have felt better and have not needed to seek more care. The whole range of interventions has been around. Now we stand without a broad first early effort. On the basis of the answer given by the Minister for Social Affairs, Madam President, I am very uncertain whether the government thinks it is important to continue with something like this. Is it going to be like this now that it's turned out to be like this? Sweden's municipalities and Regions have not made any political decision on the whole. I think there is a space from both the Government and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions' side to look at this. Let's say Inera doesn't think it fits in its portfolio of IT services, but there's a very important initiative through 1177 that should be a broad entry point. Through continued agreements and talks between the government and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, one can perhaps find a way back to the fusion that the broad help line constituted. It had a broad and open notice, was open every day of the week, had the profession and managed the calls but could also send them on when needed. I am a little hesitant when the Minister reports what money is being given to the non-profit sector. Is she saying that civil society should take over? My questions are therefore: does the government and the Minister for Social Affairs think that civil society should take over in view of the increased money that is coming? Or does the Minister intend in the forthcoming talks with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions to bring up the discussion within the framework of the 1177 work so that the national help line comes in there? Which way does the government think it appropriate to proceed? Can no one be satisfied that the line is disappearing and that, instead, there are many fragmented paths for people seeking help? Aren't we supposed to have a broad way in for these people?
i-e6e9a704e366421f-67	Madam President, I would like If we had been sitting on the benches, we would have had a button at our disposal where you can press and agree when listening to the speaker. I'd love to now if I could. I fully agree with Mrs Ankarberg in just every word of her speech. This discussion is incredibly strange. We are here in Parliament discussing a decision that is not really made by either parliament or government. There are no regulatory letters behind or commas that have been deleted in any regulation. This is a decision taken by Inera, which could be described as a company owned jointly by the regions. Officials sit there and decide what posts to hold. However, Inera is also the tool that the regions jointly own. I imagine that you actually have control over it and know what you're doing. I am sorry to say that so far there has been no line to my phone or email from upset regional politicians. On the contrary, the regions clearly think that this should go into other support structures. I have received such answers. It's about it becoming a natural part of the other thing they do in 1177. Government and parliament do not have exactly how to work in 1177. The same is true there. It is the regions that are the principals, and they need to take responsibility. They need to solve this jointly and find common functions for this. Inera is an excellent one if you use it to control what you do much better together than each other. Only last week I met a number of organizations that work suicide prevention. They also work with relatives and survivors. This applies not least to Mind, which I would like to mention specifically. This organization has different help lines and is nonprofit on the phone. It has already been noted – perhaps not in the last few weeks but well in the last year – that there is more to be done. During the autumn the whole thing has been noticed. My intention is in no way to say that the non-profit, voluntary or non-profit forces should take over something as serious as meeting people who are concerned about the mental health of themselves, a loved one or a friend, who may be suicidal and may need urgent help, support and care. However, it is difficult to see that the state would unilaterally open up a national aid line for which it was never responsible. The regions have expressed no desire for the government to contribute to trying to maintain it. Only now will we take joint decisions on an agreement on psychiatry. There are many different initiatives there. I will not use the speaking time to do so. However, many different efforts need to be made to develop psychiatric care and increase mental health together. A great deal of money has been allocated to this. It seems to me, at least, that the closure of the national aid line has not been about the economy, but has another way of looking at how to solve the care to this target group. If you as a minister can be personal, I would like to say that the national aid line has been excellent. I marvel at how to put down something that works well. But if you have a much better idea, it's hard for me to sit over it. So far, I do not think that the regions have shown something that works better. It worries me.
i-e6e9a704e366421f-76	Madam President, I would like It is good to hear that the Minister of Social Affairs regrets what has happened. The worst thing that can happen is if we just say that this can happen and then don't care about it. But I'm surprised the Minister of Social Affairs thinks that the phone only goes one way. The Minister of Social Affairs can pick up the phone and say, "How are you going to do this?" If you now intend to enter into an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions on psychiatric interventions, this should be included. It should be in the Social Affairs Minister's papers for the meeting: How do you think about that? Is that a money question? I don't think so either. I'm not making the same assessment as the Minister of Social Affairs. But how are we going to do this in the future? I do not think we can just let this happen without lifting a finger. There have been no political decisions, and that is one reason for the policy to intervene now. Politics cannot simply say: let it happen. I assume that the government and the Minister of Social Affairs will somehow find ways to influence. The question came up in the Social Affairs Committee, but at the moment I still think it is the government that has the greatest opportunities to find ways to do this together with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. Going through an announcement in Parliament seems both slow and unnecessary, as the commitment is obviously with the Minister for Social Affairs. My hope is that the activity comes from both sides and that it is recognised that the solution we have had has been cost-effective. It has cost 10 million to be open every day of the week, which must have been fantastically cost-effective. That you can make it cheaper, I can't imagine, if you're going to have it in 21 different ways. Anyone who is a help seeker and expects to be able to find their way in the jungle of telephone numbers certainly does not have the best situation. It should be as simple and smooth as possible. That's why this has been so good. It has also been quality assured. However, it has not been possible to accept more than perhaps half of all those who have wished for it, so there is a greater need than could be accommodated. I hope that the Minister for Social Affairs will move forward with the approach that I hear about in the speaker's seat today, which I am very pleased about – there must be some change. I hope that the Minister of Social Affairs will use the telephone and also let it go the other way in the talks with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions or regional representatives.
i-e6e9a704e366421f-84	Madam President, I would like I can assure Mr Ankarberg Johansson that the phone does not go in just one direction either now or in other contexts. It is clear that dialogue is taking place. There have been no requests. It's not about funding. It is clear that cooperation and agreements are based on the fact that two parties want to solve something that they feel is a common problem. I have not experienced that Sweden's Municipalities and Regions have sought support and wanted to find a solution. Perhaps they have not experienced this as a problem. Perhaps the attention that comes when the national help line is closed will cause Sweden's Municipalities and Regions to react. It remains to be seen. But compromises and agreements of various kinds are based on seeing a common problem. The issue will be discussed, but it is very worrying. We will have to think about what this is because decisions like this can be made and that the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, which is a politically managed organisation and owns a company that will cooperate and collaborate for equal care, equivalent solutions and smart and effective solutions to common problems, end up in such a situation and obviously not so concerned. Actually, I'm very concerned about that. It is wise, I think, for Acko Ankarberg Johansson to ask an interpellation, so that we can discuss the question further and perhaps take it one more step each way. Notices from committees are usually about issues that are more explicit about the government's actions and issues that are on the government's table. The strange thing about this situation is that the issue is not on the table of the government. It is difficult to take a question to the table if the owner of the question does not want to put it there. This is perhaps a little cryptic for someone who is listening. However, if the national aid line is closed down by the regions and they do not think it is a problem, I really hope that they have a different solution. I am happy to follow the question and do not mind raising it in different contexts. But so far, Sweden's Municipalities and Regions do not seem to think they have a problem.
i-e6e9a704e366421f-89	Madam President, I would like However, as far as I understand, questions have been asked within Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, but even Regional Councils do not know to whom the question has gone regionally. It has been very unclear how it has been done. It is clear that the lack of corporate governance is not good. But it is not only Sweden's Municipalities and Regions that have problems with it. I believe that the state also has a lot to do with the governance of companies that, for example, buy into services in a way that I do not think should be done. I believe that both Swedish municipalities and regions and the state need to look at corporate governance, so that they act in the way they wish. The national help line is very special. It's got a lot of money. I perceive that there is a broad consensus among all parties that it should be easy to call and talk to someone when you feel that you feel bad. This fine function that has been performed for a long time comes from the user movement and has since been accommodated by the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. It would be so sad if we let it go out of our hands just because it has existed in a company that no one has had control over with regard to this part of the decision. I understand the good interest of the Minister of Social Affairs. My hope after this interpellation debate is that you will do what you can from the government. Otherwise, I would be horribly disappointed.
i-e6e9a704e366421f-93	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to recall that Inera is not a company on the market that should act among others, but a company that is regionally common and has the task of performing regional common services and tasks that no one other than SKR provides. There is indeed a big difference between companies in a market. It would be a great pity, I think, if Inera were to evolve that way or if someone were to look at Inera that way, because then it would not be as useful as it could be. Swedish municipalities and regions must take the criticism seriously and respond to it. It is not possible to put the issue in the lap of someone else, but Inera is governed by Sweden's Municipalities and Regions. They have chosen to close the national help line. No hand has been stretched out. No interest has been shown in solving something that could be a problem. This has worked well until the date on which closure was decided. No solution has since been shown. I think it is an irresponsible way of dealing with the health care professional who has done an amazing job. Above all, it is irresponsible to all those who have felt that the national aid line was a great way in which to achieve the available health care that we all want.
i-e6e9a704e366421f-95	Madam President, I would like Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson has asked the City Council Hallberg for recognition of Faroese driving licences. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the question. The holder of a licence issued in the Faroe Islands may drive in Sweden according to his driving licence. However, if the holder of a driving licence has been registered in Sweden for more than a year, the person needs to take a Swedish driving licence in order to continue driving here. If the person lives temporarily in Sweden for example for studies or work, an exception can be applied for if the licence is valid for longer than one year. I understand that this regime can create problems for licence holders from the Faroe Islands. The question of whether Sweden should recognise and exchange driving licences issued outside the EEA to a wider extent is still complex and includes issues such as road safety and other safety aspects. There are also recommendations from the EU to address. I see the issue as urgent, and it is currently being prepared within the Government Office.
i-e6e9a704e366421f-99	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I'd like to start by giving you a little background. At the Nordic Council Theme Session in Copenhagen in April 2019, the Nordic Council's Border Barriers Group met. It consists of parliamentarians from all countries, party groups and committees in the Nordic Council. The group's mission is to support the Nordic Council of Ministers' Border Barriers Council in its efforts to solve and overcome concrete obstacles to free movement within the Nordic region and to influence parliamentary influence on issues that go further or that the Border Barriers Council is no longer working on. The Border Barriers Group is also a link between the cross-border work of the various committees within the Nordic Council and between the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers. The meeting noted that a number of border barriers had now been dismantled, which is very gratifying. However, there are still many obstacles to eliminating in order to promote Nordic mobility. The rapporteur and member of the group, Bertel Haarder from Denmark, presented the following at the meeting: This is good news regarding the recognition of driving licences across our Nordic borders. Specifically, Greenlandic and Faroese driving licences are now accepted in all the Nordic countries, except in Sweden, if you have driven at least 90 days and have two days' course in the country in question. This also applies to Faroese driving licences, according to the reporter's report to us. After the meeting, I asked Minister Eneroth a written question and answered that the question was, among other things, complex and contains questions about road safety and other safety aspects. It is important to promote mobility in the Nordic region and the issue is currently being prepared within the Government Office. On 30 October last year, at the 71st session of the Nordic Council here in this House, the Swedish Minister for Cooperation Anna Hallberg received the question and a prayerful request from the Faroese Minister for Cooperation Kaj Leo Holm Johannesen to resolve this bitelille, as he said, about the Faroese driving licence and the Swedish Minister for Cooperation answered: I have understood that this question has long been an important issue for the Faroe Islands, and it has now approached a point where it should in principle be written off as insoluble. That is what our own Minister for Cooperation said in October, which meant that I now put this interpellation to her and not to Minister Eneroth. It has now been pleased to give the question to Minister Eneroth instead. The answer that the Government read out is basically a copy of the answer that I received to the written question in April. However, the government's argument is not entirely connected. In April 2019 it was important to promote mobility in the Nordic region, and the issue was prepared within the Government Office. In October 2019 the question was written off as insoluble, according to Minister Hallberg. Now in January 2020, when the issue has been around the Government Office for almost two months after I submitted the interpellation, it is once again seen as urgent, and it is still being prepared within the Government Office. I must conclude by asking the Government: what is the case?
i-e6e9a704e366421f-107	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for your commitment! I really appreciate that. I am among those who think Nordic cooperation is important. I myself have worked both with this type of question before in the Riksdag and with border barriers issues in general. As Minister of Infrastructure, I see that we are now actively working to facilitate and improve communications between our Nordic countries. Last time I opened the bridge over Great Hell on the border between Sweden and Norway up in Jämtland. We will hopefully also get an electrification of the railway even on the Norwegian side. It's important, and we need to stick together. My basic approach to driving licences – although it is a complex matter, because it is – is that we should make an effort to find a good solution, not least for Nordic countries. This means that we are now working on the issue and preparing it in the Government Office. For those who follow the debate from outside, it may still be good to know that it is a complex matter. There is a driving licence directive we have to deal with at European level. There are also legislative changes that need to be made and that must be submitted to the Riksdag. There are, above all, a great many other countries that are calling for attention. It could be Jersey, the Cayman Islands, the Isle of Man or Greenland. But it can also be South Korea, Turkey, Oman and many other countries. Then one must have a basis for why we make a special solution. For me, Nordic cooperation is important. I know that we have now made good progress on several of the border barriers issues that have been on the table in recent years. Not least, this government has worked actively on this. For me, the question is not insoluble. I think it's possible to solve. I hope and believe that we will be able to find a solution in the future with the right support. We'll prepare the question. It's complex. But it is, of course, an important issue for the Faroe Islands.
i-e6e9a704e366421f-115	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is gratifying to hear that the Government is now much clearer in its intention to find a solution to the issue. Nordic cooperation is important. It is particularly important for those of us who live in border areas where border barriers are very clear. In some of the border barriers issues, my experience, and for many of us who sit on the Nordic Council, is that it is not always about that they are difficult to solve. It is just as much about the fact that there really is no will. From what the Government has said now, I feel that there is still a will. I hope there is indeed something concrete behind this. We have a special cooperation in the Nordic region that is important. It is a collaboration that we will work to strengthen even more. The Nordic Council should be strengthened even more as the important institution as it is. The Nordic Council has developed a new vision, namely that we will be the world's most sustainable and integrated region within ten years. Do we mean that, or are those just fine words on a piece of paper? If we mean something by that, we should be able to resolve such matters, to quote the Minister for Cooperation again, If we are not able to resolve these small issues, how will we be able to resolve the major issues? I had the pleasure of being in the Faroe Islands last summer at a summer meeting with our committee. Among other things, we were driving a car. The ferries were driving fantastically. We drove through a tunnel to Gásadalur. It is a 1.7 km one-lane tunnel, which the ferries have so far mastered. I'm not sure that a 1.7 kilometer one-lane tunnel would have worked as well in the hot traffic here in Stockholm. I'm afraid there would have been a lot more collision here. The important thing should be what is included in driving licence training, not in which country the licence has been issued. Then I immediately admit that I don't know all the underlying things. But that should still be what is included in education and what you learn. That is how we look at it when, for example, we are hiring people from other countries. When we're going to validate their knowledge, we need to see what they can actually do. It should be the same here. One might ask: What makes ferries so much more dangerous in traffic here than in other Nordic countries? When a bear moves here and writes in Sweden, he gets to drive here. But after a year the same person suddenly becomes a traffic hazard, and then he has to take a Swedish driving licence. Now, if the Faroese driving licence is not satisfactory, is the person not more dangerous just when he comes here and starts driving here than after a year when he suddenly has to take a Swedish driving licence? Madam President, I do not get that to be connected. It would be a little interesting to hear the Government's answer to this.
i-e6e9a704e366421f-125	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson! I believe that we should avoid over-reeling the rules we have and make fun of them. Of course it is a good thing that we have exemptions. It is good that for a year, when you can be here during studies or work, you can still be allowed to use your driving licence. However, if you are to have a driving licence permanently, it is a good thing that we have a proper review and ensure that it is both adequate education, that it is a valid driving licence and that it is safe rules. If nothing else, we, as members of the European Union, are obliged to do so. I get a little worried when Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson takes a little easy on the driving licence directive and the European rules. Just as we in Sweden should take this seriously and carry out proper scrutiny and control, we demand that other European countries within the European Union also do the same. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that Finland has the same application as Sweden. Again: Nordic cooperation is important, and I appreciate Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson's commitment to this. We prepare the question in the Government Office. It is also important that everyone who follows the debate knows that you can use your driving licence for a year and apply for a derogation to have it for a longer period of time. We shall, of course, ensure that we work according to the regulations of the driving licence directive. If so, we will have to return to Parliament. That is what we need to do with a proposal for amendments, for example, in the case of the Faroe Islands. For me, Nordic countries are a priority. Although this is a tiny question, as Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson put it, I would not use that concept. For the Faroe Islands, this is an important issue. It's a matter of principle. It is an important issue for trust in its own pride. I am taking this issue seriously. I will come back with an answer when we have finished the question in the Government Office.
i-e6e9a704e366421f-132	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Nordic countries are the priorities of the Government. When I said "bittelille" it was a quote from the Faroese Minister for Cooperation. He thought we considered this to be a bittelite, a very small question. But for the ferries, as the Government quite rightly said, it is an important issue. Of course we should take the rules seriously. There is no doubt about it. According to the information we have received, Finland is also on the train now, so only Sweden is missing. Otherwise, the other Nordic countries are on the track when it comes to Faroese driving licences. Now it sounded to the government like he has a different opinion. In its final reply, the Government is happy to announce more about this, but this is at least the information that I have received. It was also given by rapporteur Bertel Haarder at the meeting of the Border Barriers Group in Copenhagen. It is good, as the Government said, with the exemption possibilities. But it still doesn't make any sense. I therefore hope that I can take the Government seriously when it comes to the fact that it is actually a reality that this is being prepared for the Government Office and that we will find a solution so that the ferries can also drive here without any problems.
i-e6e9a704e366421f-137	Madam President and Mr Ottosson! I have been confirmed that Finland has the same application as Sweden. Nevertheless, the important thing is that we ensure that we have a proper process in the Government Office and try the opportunity, and as I said, I am committed to and enthusiastic about finding more Nordic solutions. I would like to take this opportunity to say that I think what Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson said in his previous speech about creating sustainable Nordic cooperation and sustainable climate and environmental work is important. When we met in the Barents Council context, one of the most important starting points was to put the climate issue at the centre. But then it also requires that we have the right level of ambition in Sweden, that we are prepared politically to allocate resources to climate action and that we do not present draft budgets that involve clear savings in the climate area. Instead, we need to continue to have a high level of ambition in order to achieve the commitments we have made under the Paris Agreement. Here Sweden is the world leader. We are making the biggest railway investment in modern times, and we are changing the transport sector with electrification and with biofuel introduction. We do what many others hesitate to do, not only because we have to, but also because we think it is good for Sweden. It will create jobs and hope for the future, and that will make Sweden an example in the world. As I sometimes say: Sweden is a permanent world exhibition at our best – when we can show how the Swedish automotive industry together with research and with regions can find new ways to get fossil-free traffic and when we can inspire the world by showing that the transformation is actually possible. Here, as politicians, we all have a responsibility to be ambitious in climate policy, both in the Nordic countries and throughout the world. Thank you for a good interpellation debate!
