i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-2	Madam President, I would like Sofia Westergren has asked me how I intend to work to ensure that Appendix 4 of the report from the Eutrophication Investigation does not go further as a basis for further investigation and risk putting away the bones for Swedish horse owners. Eutrophication is a major problem in many lakes and coastal waters and in the Baltic Sea, and it is essential that the most useful and effective measures are implemented. The Swedish coasts should be places we are proud of, and our seas should be full of life. The eutrophication study does not specifically target the horse industry but concerns several sectors and proposes many different measures to reduce eutrophication of coastal waters, lakes and watercourses. Without pre-empting in detail the further examination of the report, I generally welcome the improvement work being done in the horse industry and the development of information and advice that can help activities in the horse industry in their environmental work. The government has not proposed and does not plan to present the advice or examples provided by the investigation for the horse industry in Appendix 4. I would also like to point out that I welcome the Swedish horse industry, which contributes to the well-being of people as well as to the living countryside. The horse has an important importance in many different areas where grazing land and nature experiences are part of the benefit. Horse farms help maintain important environmental and natural values as well as societal benefits with rehabilitation, leisure, tourism, work training and much more. It does not propose any rules or legislation. Its proposal is that the Swedish Agriculture Agency, in cooperation with the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, should develop a basis for new regulations on environmental concerns for horse keepers. The eutrophication study submitted its report Strengthened local action work – reaching the goal No eutrophication in February 2020. The report of the study has been in the process of being consulted until 31 August 2020, and further preparation of the report and referrals is now taking place in the Government Office.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-7	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Environment and Climate Change Isabella Lövin for his answer. I agree with the Minister that there is a problem with eutrophication, especially in the Baltic Sea. Sweden is an elongated country. My constituency is located around Gothenburg on the west coast. Our waters do not enter a sea with the same problems as the Baltic Sea. The rules need to be adapted in order to look different in the country. I can give you an example from reality. At the riding school in Stenungsund, from which I come, the horses go and graze along the shoreline. The soil has previously been grazed for up to a hundred years by cattle. The grazing and trampling of animals has created a species - rich land that has been classified as particularly conservational. Horses only go there during the summer, when plants take care of the nutrition that the horses provide. The investigation lacks nuances and willingness to see differences. The investigation is perceived as clumsy and square by the horse people. It felt like the investigation wanted to put away the legs for Swedish horse keeping by highlighting in Appendix 4 examples such as that there should be only two horses per hectare, that a horse pasture is exhausted after ten years and that horses should not graze by watercourses. I thank the Minister for the information that the Government does not plan to go forward with the advice or examples given by the investigation for the horse industry in Annex 4. Warm thanks for that! The Minister says in his answer:"Its proposal is that the Swedish Board of Agriculture, in cooperation with the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, should develop a basis for new regulations on environmental concerns for horse keepers. I agree with the Minister that more evidence is needed. Today, there is a lack of a coherent basis. More studies are needed. However, it is hard to see the need to bring forward new regulations for horse keepers. The investigation has not, in a credible and fact-based way, presented the need to introduce a specific regulation for horse keepers. Madam President, I would like I wonder if the Minister understands the criticism the investigation received from horse keepers in Sweden.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-13	Madam President, I would like I thank Sofia Westergren for the questions. I would like to begin by stressing once again that the government is very positive about the Swedish horse industry. It contributes to jobs, opportunities for recreation and contact with animals and biodiversity, which are promoted. Not least, many girls and women are very involved in the horse trade, and that is something that certainly contributes to a vibrant countryside and very prosperous in our country. I had my own horse when I was younger and know just how important it is for living countryside, leisure and social gatherings for a lot of people, not least young people. There is no doubt, therefore, that the government is very positive about the horse industry and wants to protect it. I would really like to emphasise that this investigation dealt with eutrophication in general and not just the horse industry. There are a great many proposals here that focus on everything from individual sewers to agriculture, forestry and so on. It would be strange to completely exclude the horse industry. After all, we have very many horses in our country, which is gratifying. We even have more horses than we have cows. This also means that there will be a significant phosphorus supply from horse manure. You shouldn't underestimate that. Today there are 355,000 horses. There's something more than milk cows. These horses produce some 2.9 million tons of manure. How the horses are managed and how the manure is handled is important to avoid negative environmental impacts. It is unfortunate in the debate that a feeling has been created that one wants to knock away the bones of the horse industry. I do not think that is the investigator's intention, and that is certainly not the government's intention. We are now looking closely at the referrals. I note that, for example, the Swedish Riding Association is calling for more advice. There also seems to be a consensus that there is a lack of knowledge on how to reduce the effects of horse manure so that it does not run out into lakes and streams. I also know that horsemen are very much people who love nature. There is no one who wants to see overcrowded, overcrowded lakes or algae bloom in the Baltic Sea. What we need to do above all is to look with open eyes at this issue and how to reduce the eutrophication effects even from the horse industry. Of course, it should not be excluded. It is estimated from SLU that by halving the leakage from the horse pastures, the phosphorus load on the Baltic Sea could be reduced by 20 tonnes. If you don't do it from the horse industry, you would do it from somewhere else, for example through agriculture or through the sewage treatment plants. It also has a very high cost. 20 tonnes is about 10 per cent of Sweden's phosphorus load on the Baltic Sea. It's not an unimportant supply. I would like to emphasise that very much. It is therefore also important that we continue to look at this issue.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-20	Madam President, I would like I can't help noticing you brought up the relationship between dairy cows and horses. It's correct. Then I wonder why you choose dairy cows and not cattle as a coherent species, but just the females of the cattle. Then we'll have a different relationship. But it doesn't matter in itself. Horses are part of Sweden's agriculture, and should be so. I would like to refer to the investigation that forms the basis for Appendix 4 and which was raised at the meeting with Håkan Wåhlstedt and his staff where I participated. The studies are carried out in defined geographical areas on individual occasions, and the results of the studies differ greatly. In the meeting with investigator Håkan Wåhlstedt and two of his employees, the claim about the need for pastures to be end-of-life after ten years of use is maintained, which I do not believe is true. The reading of the Eutrophication Report frustrated me, and after the meeting with Håkan Wåhlstedt and his staff, I was upset. Surveys have been carried out – the Swedish Board of Agriculture 2018, SVRF 2020 – which show that handling of horse manure at farm level in the horse industry works well. As mentioned earlier, data on the levels of eutrophication problems linked to horses are being questioned. Without a proper basis, it is not reasonable to propose rules or legislation. There must be proportionality between problems and action. Without concrete evidence for the environmental impact of horses, there is a risk of imposing demands for ineffective measures. The investigator has not taken into account the broad social benefits that the horse industry creates. But I'm glad the Minister brings this up in our conversation. What the investigation has concluded is that the manure has a set-off problem because horses often live a little more closely to the city and the farms are a little more external to the country. There are studies and studies showing that 90% of horse keepers' horse manure still comes out to the farmland of farmers and is taken care of there. There may be a mismatch simply. The study does not show that even if the horses do not live on an agricultural land, the manure will still benefit the agricultural land. It is beneficial for all of us to take care of nutritious horse manure. Having said that, it is an asset instead of a eutrophication problem if it is handled properly. I agree with the Minister. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action whether the Minister can see that, as a first step, there is a need for more investigation and a further round of consultations before landing in the need for more regulation and legislation on horse keeping. We can rather inform and develop good systems where you can take care of horse manure. I think we all do.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-28	Madam President, I would like Thank you once again, Sofia Westergren! First of all, I would like to emphasise what the eutrophication investigation is proposing. I would like to repeat once again that the investigation is not primarily about the horse industry, but about eutrophication in general. The concrete proposals of the study are not those contained in the annex. The proposal is for the Government to commission the Swedish Board of Agriculture, in cooperation with SLU, to develop a basis for new regulations on environmental concerns for horse owners. Unfortunately, the appendix is also partially misquoted in Sofia Westergren's interpellation issue. It does not say, for example, that a pasture may only be used for ten years and only for two or three horses per hectare. What is stated in the annex to the report is that a land should not be used as a paddock, not that it should not be used. It is also stressed that the horse density as a pasture is largely dependent on site-specific conditions. Sofia Westergren himself mentioned that there may be different conditions on the island's coastline, the west coast, the hinterland of Norrland and so on. There are areas with particular eutrophication problems. I think that this is also underlined by the formulation of site-specific conditions, such as soil conditions, drainage and utilisation rates. The length of time a paddock is suitable also depends on ground conditions, and load is further emphasised. Environmental inspectors should also make site-specific assessments and so on. All of this is an annex. It is not the annex that is the proposal for a decision. The proposal for a decision from the investigator is to give the Swedish Board of Agriculture, in cooperation with SLU, the task of producing data. It's something the government is looking at right now. We have received a lot of referrals from our authorities but also from the Swedish Riding Association, LRF and others. It's something we're looking at very carefully right now. I also note that there are several good initiatives on advice. Greppa Näringen has advice especially about horses. It is aimed at those with more than 15 horses. There is competition within Greppa Näringen if you need to go out with advice broadly to agriculture about eutrophication. It's not just about horses. This means that a very limited number of horse owners are likely to be reached. I mean, and several of the referees say that there is a lack of knowledge among horse owners. Not only can it be solved through legislation or initiatives, but there is probably a need to move forward a little more systematically to provide information on leakages from e.g. horse pastures. You need to have a vegetation that can soak up the infuriating substances. If you have very muddy pastures the overfed substances are washed out into the nearest ditch and eventually end up in watercourses or in a lake. It is a basic knowledge that you need to understand and how many horses you can have and how big the total can be. We need to take a closer look at the referrals.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-38	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Isabella Lövin for the answers. I think we have a common understanding that we want the environment and nature good and that we stand up for Swedish equestrian sports. I can also see that everyone needs to do their part. Perhaps it is not a question of having 15 horses or 2 horses, but of what the ground can do. Then I think we should include all the horses. It's not about whether you have it in a limited company, it's about the eutrophication that runs away, simply. Then I wonder if the Minister can see that what I think Horse Sweden hit behind was that Appendix 4 contains an unfortunate title. This is the basis of the regulation on the environmental aspects of horse husbandry. The Minister has already said that it does not intend to proceed with Appendix 4. It is not a proposal for a decision – just as a clarification. I am hopeful that in a discussion we will find that more studies need to be done so that we have a common understanding of the problems that may exist around horse husbandry in order to get as good nature and environment as possible. Nevertheless, I would like to mention that legislation and regulations may not always be the most effective. We will come out with guidelines and proposals for a better environment for all of us.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-42	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Westergren, for the closing words! I welcome the fact that the honourable Member emphasises that we want the same thing when it comes to protecting our nature and that there are also risks that leakage from the horse industry can contribute to eutrophication. There we need a common vision, and everyone needs to do their part. Of course, the government agrees with that. We need to implement these measures in the best and most effective way, and it is also important to raise awareness of the issues so that the measures taken are balanced against what is reasonable. Then there may be different areas that have different types of eutrophication problems. As I said, the government is now looking at the referral. A lot of people have come in. One thing that has been raised from many quarters is the need for more knowledge, that there is a lack of knowledge among horse owners and that more advice may also be needed, which I see as very important. We must also be able to make better use of this resource. The phosphorus load in the Baltic Sea is not good, but we also have phosphorus that is now broken in mines in Western Sahara, for example. This is a very unsustainable way of extracting phosphorus now that we have it naturally in the cycle. There you can of course better use this resource. That is the direction of the government.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-45	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me whether I intend to take new measures and take new decisions to implement the proposals in the climate emergency plan and whether I consider some of the proposals in the climate emergency plan to be of particular interest to be implemented shortly. I would like to begin by thanking Jens Holm for this interpellation and the opportunity to discuss the proposals in the climate emergency plan, which has thus been developed by the organisation Climate Change Day. For major social transitions to take place, civil society needs to mobilise its power to influence those in power to act. This has been taken up by the Climate Council, and it is therefore proposed in 150 concrete proposals on how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Madam President, I would like I'm impressed by this plan and how concrete it is. It is similar in several respects to the climate policy action plan drawn up by the government last year. Many of the proposals in the financial plan, such as the extension of charging infrastructure, support for coal-free steel production and recycled plastic plant, are in line with my and the government's view of what needs to be done and what will actually be implemented with government policy. In some cases, the proposals of the Climate Parliament are more ambitious than the policy pursued by the government, and I believe that it is in this capacity that they are also doing the most useful – as a blowtorch that drives us in parliament and government not to rest until the threat of climate change is resolved. At the moment, we are in a hectic phase of implementation where the proposals in the Government's climate action plan are taken care of. Among other things, the government, together with the cooperation parties, has presented a number of climate proposals in the budget proposal for 2021, such as green credit guarantees, significantly higher incorporation of biofuels in petrol and diesel, increased investment in rail, freight transport and electrification of transport. The Government Office will also soon begin work on a new climate policy action plan, which will include input from civil society. What the next plan will contain, the government will have to come back to.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-51	Madam President, I would like We know that we are living in an acute climate. Much more needs to be done if we are to achieve our commitments. The world today, with today's measures and decisions taken, is moving towards a three - degree warming in this century. With a three-degree warming of the planet, it's actually good to see civilization as we know it. So we must make this change, not least for our children and grandchildren. They are the ones who inherit this world and will live in it. I think that the climate change plan, which contains 150 concrete proposals, is a very important tool for improving our climate policy. That's why I was curious to know how the government and not least the climate minister view it. Now I also know that the climate minister has taken note of the plan. The plan contains proposals for all relevant policy areas such as energy, transport, industry, construction, social planning, forests, agriculture, water, the economy and even our consumption. Among other things, it is proposed that we phase out the industry's tax reductions, make greater investments in renewable energy and have another forestry, a continuum forestry industry. It stresses the importance of protecting more forest – forest can act as a carbon sink, as you know. We will eat in a more sustainable way, it is proposed, more vegetarian and less meat. Here, too, we can make decisions that support such a development. It proposes a ban on new car sales of petrol and diesel cars by 2025, greater investment in rail and public transport and a national carbon budget. The Minister for Climate Change, Madam President, answers some of the questions I raise and tells you what is going on from the government. These are some issues that I would like to go a little deeper into, such as the issue of banning new car sales of fossil cars. We saw the United Kingdom's recent proposal to ban these sales from 2030 onwards. Now I know that question is being investigated, but can the Minister give us an update? What are the Minister's thoughts about when we should have such a ban? Industrial emissions are, of course, an important part. Today, new industrial plants are being tested on the basis of the environmental code. The environmental code is very good and regulates public health, local emissions and so on, but it does not actually start from our climate targets. In the case of Preemraff, we saw that the environmental code could not actually stop it. One suggestion would be that we simply sharpen the environmental code so that new activities are tested on the basis of our climate targets. Is the Minister prepared to do that? Regarding food and food, I wonder whether the Minister is prepared to take any steps to promote increased consumption of vegetarian food and reduced consumption of meat, for example in the public sector where we procure a great deal of food for school, health care and care.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-58	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the initiative for this important interpellation debate! I have the emergency plan for the climate in my hand, and I have enjoyed it with great pleasure. This is one of the documents that the government is looking at for future climate action plans together with evidence from authorities and various actors in society. This is extremely important. We have an active civil society, and Kli Matriksdagen is an excellent example of how to work structured and quality assured. As I said at the outset, I am impressed by this plan and would urge all parties in Parliament to read it. Not everything is in the government's power to implement, but one needs a majority in the Swedish parliament to implement some of these proposals. It is therefore important that there is a political impetus from a majority in the Riksdag to implement them. First of all, I would like to say that it is the same approach in the Government's climate action plan as in this emergency plan, that is, the ambition is to integrate climate action into all policy areas. It is about transport, agriculture, industry, industry and everything that can affect climate emissions also in the Government's climate action plan. With regard to the specific questions from Jens Holm, I can start with the 2030 ban on fossil cars. As Jens Holm says, we agree between the parties in the January agreement that we will want to go forward with such a ban. What the investigator is now looking at is the legal conditions for doing so based on, among other things, EU rules and when an appropriate such date would be, and when we might have a ban on the sale of fossil fuels. At the end of the day, it is not the internal combustion engine itself that causes emissions, but we simply have to phase out fossil fuels. The investigation will come up with its proposal this spring. I very much welcome the fact that several countries such as the UK have proposals and that the European Commission will also put forward proposals for phasing out the sale of new fossil cars. With regard to the environmental code and having the opportunity to take account of the climate issue, we have also already set up an investigation, the so-called Climate Law investigation, in which the first sub-report will look specifically at the environmental code and the possibility of controlling permit testing based on climate considerations and not just on the other environmental impact factors that are otherwise looked at under the environmental code. It is perhaps surprising to many to know that this is a specific exception in the environmental code to look at CO2 emissions as it is regulated by the EU ETS. The investigator is asked to put forward proposals for how we can better manage the climate issue via the environmental code, and this will also come in spring. When it comes to food, we have given a mandate to the Procurement Authority on how to reduce emissions through public procurement.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-67	Madam President, I would like Thank you for those answers, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action! I have some further questions about this. If we start with the environmental code and the licensing of new industrial plants, I am familiar with the fact that there is an investigation going on, but I hope that investigation will not leave its final report until May 2022? I look forward to the partial report, and I very much hope that the government will do something of that particular sub-report and not wait, because it will wait too long. One could call a new law of this kind lex Preem and with it could stop new activities even before they are established with reference to our climate requirements. I am also thinking of the ban on the sale of new cars for fossil-powered cars and that it would be great if decisions on such a ban were taken at European level. But one can also imagine that Sweden will go ahead and impose such a ban before the EU does. I am afraid that it will take a very long time and also that strong lobbying interests will make such legislation at European level less effective. The Minister also says that it is good to have a majority in parliament, and it sounds almost like everything the Minister wants to do in the climate area requires a majority in parliament, but that is not the case. Very much is in the hands of the government. Just such a simple thing as steering our authorities and jointly owned companies better and making them work towards achieving our climate goals is incredibly effective, I would say. This can be adjusted with new authority instructions and owner directives. I am thinking, for example, of the Swedish Armed Forces, which still opposes the establishment of new wind farms, even though I know that the government has adjusted their instructions. They simply need to be further adjusted. In my opinion, the Finnish Transport Agency is not based on our climate targets when planning new infrastructure. The Tax Agency sometimes opposes self-produced renewable electricity and so on. So there is a great deal to do, and the government and the minister can change it very quickly. Another issue raised in the Emergency Plan of Climate Change is public transport and that it needs more money – and that we simply need to travel more collectively. Now we are in the midst of a pandemic, and we politicians and the authorities are calling on people not to travel collectively. But there's a life after the pandemic, let's hope. Public transport is currently bleeding money, and about SEK 1 billion a month is lost because of lost ticket revenues. Now the government has allocated extra money to public transport. That's good. In total, I think it will be SEK 5 billion during this year and next year. Unfortunately, that is not enough. The public transport bill is about 10 billion this year alone. Does the Minister intend to spend more money on public transport? I'd like to know. Now that the government is going to develop a new climate action plan, it may be a good idea to invite Climate Sweden to a meeting to discuss the emergency plan more carefully. Does the Minister have any plans for such a meeting with Climate Day?
i-REv9JHMXT6XDatD8LX61uC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for further questions! The government has of course great opportunities to steer and structure the state's work so that it really steers towards the climate goals. That is exactly what the government is doing through the climate action plan. We have indeed stated there that climate targets must permeate the work of the whole government. Jens Holm mentioned the Swedish Transport Administration. We have adjusted the wording for Trafikverket's planning work. This should be done within the framework of the consideration objectives, which are the environmental and climate objectives. So there is a change of approach. Another change, which has been significant, is that the Prime Minister has set up a special climate college in the government. There, the most relevant ministers – the Minister for Housing, the Minister for Energy, the Minister for Infrastructure, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for Agriculture and the undersigned – have more coordination and can create a consensus on how to achieve climate goals. Of course, the Climate Minister cannot do that work alone unless the other departments have the same objective in mind. Now the government is really moving towards those goals. It is also about giving tasks to authorities and reviewing all relevant legislation. I cannot stress enough the importance of the investigation that we have set up. It is Anders Danielsson who leads the Climate Law investigation. It has the task of reviewing in the first part of the report, which is due to be submitted in spring, precisely how the environmental code needs to be adjusted so that it steers towards the climate targets and not, as it is today, excluding them. The next step in the investigation is to look at all other relevant legislation. It's a huge job. It is likely that some legislation will have to be passed after that report is submitted in May 2022. It is about looking at the Local Government Act, the Construction and Planning Act and all possible legislation that can once again facilitate climate change, rather than, as is sometimes the case today, slowing down and making it more difficult. The legislation we have today has in many cases been adopted at a different time, before we had the Paris Agreement and Sweden's Climate Act. It is truly an extremely important piece of work. I would also like to emphasise that the same principle is now being launched at European level by the Commission. All relevant legislation at EU level should be reviewed, so that it moves towards Green Deal, towards the climate targets at EU level. That's a good thing. In the case of Corona and more money for public transport, the government is constantly following the situation in the country as a result of the coronapdemine. The government is constantly prepared to provide further assistance and support to sectors of society that need to work even during the pandemic. The ban on fossil fuel was the last thing we talked about. However, the government's intention is, of course, to go ahead and even go ahead, even if the Commission does not have time to make a proposal. That is also why we agreed on it in the January agreement.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-85	Madam President, I would like As for how our authorities and jointly owned companies are governed, I think there is much more to be done there. It sounds like the minister has a focus on that issue. It's important. With regard to more plant-based food and less meat consumption, which we mentioned at the outset, it may seem a little strange to bring it up in a political debate. Isn't it a private question what we put on the plate? But we should remember that in Sweden there are 3 million publicly funded meals a day, not least in our schools. Can we perhaps make a contribution to schools that want to serve more plant-based food so that they can send the cooking staff to training in vegetarian cooking, buy new cookbooks and new ingredients and such things? I think there's a lot to do there. With state support for this, there could indeed be a push forward for less meat and more vegetarian food in the public sector. The climate justice investigation is an incredibly important investigation. It is good that there is an interim report already this spring. Does the Minister intend to make this sub-report a bill, i.e. a bill to Parliament? Or will she wait for the entire investigation? Then we'll lose another year. We just don't have time for that. What is the timetable? It is good that the government is following public transport. But that's not enough. If we politicians say that we should refrain from travelling collectively, we must also be prepared to compensate the regional public transport authorities. Otherwise, public transport will be damaged for a very long time. Of course, that's not good. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the debate. It's important. As I said, I would also like to ask the Minister what the dialogue with climate change is like. Will the minister meet them? Maybe they've already done that.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-90	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the questions! It's easy to forget any question. I share Jens Holm's commitment to maintaining a functioning public transport system. We are following that question closely. When it comes to the climate justice investigation and whether we will come forward with a proposal this spring, it depends a little on the proposals that are put forward and how far-reaching it is. But the Government's ambition is to implement the climate change transition as quickly as possible. This is an important cornerstone of environmental legislation and can steer towards climate targets. I assume that we will be able to deal with it as quickly as possible. When it comes to inviting Climate Parliament, the next climate action plan will not be published until the next term of office, following the next elections. The work now under way in the Government Office is about giving assignments to authorities to get input into the climate action plan. Contributions from civil society, such as the emergency plan, are also a basis to be looked at. I also have a continuous dialogue with civil society and environmental organisations. I'll see you at irregular intervals. That's something I'll have to look at in the future. When it comes to food and targeted state subsidies, municipalities already find it a little too many targeted state subsidies. Going in and saying that you should use it for vegetarian food and the like may not be appreciated. On the other hand, the government has extended and introduced climate and energy advisors at municipal level. This competence can be used by municipalities or schools to see how they can reduce their carbon footprint.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-95	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me if I have taken steps for guidelines to the authorities under the Ministry of Environmental Affairs when it comes to tipping off operations and selling to former managers. He has also asked me whether there are guidelines on sales processes and transparency and what measures I intend to take to curb corruption and similar inappropriate behaviour by the authorities under the Ministry of the Environment. Madam President, I would like SMHI shall, according to its instructions, increase the public benefit by carrying out mission activities towards other authorities and by carrying out business activities within its field of activity. The business that Mikael Oscarsson refers to is SMHI's sale of the IT software that SMHI has used in a segment of SMHI's business, the maritime business segment. It was a business where SMHI's share of the market was small and profitability heavily depends on exchange rates. In order to remain attractive in the market, substantial investments were needed. Against this background, SMHI decided to close down operations, entailing costs, not least for the decommissioning of staff. In the decommissioning process, the staff concerned notified their interest in acquiring the IT software. The notification of interest allowed SMHI to reduce the decommissioning cost. SMHI's assessment is that nothing has been sold at a lower price, that the chosen settlement approach was the business best and that all alternative solutions had risked a significantly more expensive settlement and thus a higher cost for taxpayers. The authorities shall at all times respect the objectivity and impartiality of their activities. It is clear from the Authority Regulation that it is the management of the public authority who is responsible for the activities and who must ensure that they are carried out effectively and in accordance with applicable law. The Budget Act states that sales shall be carried out in a commercial manner, unless there are specific reasons against it. The regulation on the transfer of the State's movable property is also clear about the commercial nature of the sale. It is thus the authority management at SMHI that has the task and responsibility to assess and ensure the commercial nature of the sales in question. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance of ensuring that public opinion is always alert to circumstances that may call their impartiality into question. Mikael Oscarsson describes the media reporting on SMHI's sales and the sales reported to several different bodies. As far as I am aware, the complaints to the Office, the Competition Authority and the Ombudsman have not led to any action on their part. I am aware that there has been a notification to the European Commission regarding state aid. The Commission has not contacted the Government Office in the case, which is the case if it initiates an investigation. I also know that the Swedish National Audit Office is examining the matter. The Government Office is following the question. Nothing has come up about the sale that gives reason to take any action of the kind that Mikael Oscarsson asks about.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-102	Madam President, I would like I think quite a lot of Swedes put coffee in their throats when they read DN's articles with headlines like We also have this pretty amazing article: a Swedish SMHI manager: Not so many interested people, no, thank you for that when you didn't go out and tell them it was for sale! It occurred to me now that I heard the interpellation answer that it sounds like you have to say, Wow, what a deal! .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. However, there is a great deal to be said about which is remarkable. Let me begin with what the Government says in its reply that this is a software. In an interview, SMHI's Chief Legal Officer af Sandeberg Sandeberg:中 We would have lost the full value of what we could sell if we went out openly about a sale. Then our customers, who make up the value, would have disappeared. Of course, customers are important. It's also a service. 30 people had reported this. It's not just about a software that you can generally send anyway. The Government also says that this was a small part. It should then be remembered that SMHI Maritime was a top 5 player on the highly competitive world market and had a market share of 3 percent. But this represented one third of the total business revenue of SMHI. So it wasn't a small thing. It is also important to know, as I can inform the Government, that SMHI Maritime was a service export, and there is a limit of 20%. SMHI Shipping had thus in practice achieved its maximum share of the world market at the time of the sale. The answer also says that it took considerable investment to be attractive. According to the information I have received, it was about development costs of 7 – 8 million annually needed to maintain the competitive position and attractiveness of the market. Then there is the strange fact that the winding-up process began with the person concerned giving up his employment at SMHI on 24 February. Within a week thereafter, SMHI's law firm Delphi was commissioned to divest SMHI's shipping business. SMHI does not carry out the dismissal of the manager in question until 26 March, but before the employment ended on 23 April, the negotiations with stakeholders have already resulted in a draft deal. The Ministry was informed of the financial difficulties of maritime transport only on 25 May. On 25 June, the Ministry was informed that SMHI Maritime could be sold. A week later they announced that the contract was signed and that the purchase price was 5.5 million. All of this is documented in the legal firm Delphis's factual documentation that is submitted to SMHI. It is a public document that I recommend for reading so that you understand how it has been done. The decision to divest SMHI Maritime Services to Gale Force was made in connection with the dismissal of the current manager on 24 February. Nevertheless, SMHI chose to spend almost 10 million on development costs for an IT system during the first half of this year, which was then sold for 5.5 million. The development cost was also extraordinary in 2019, i.e. between 7 and 8 million. Was this really a good deal?
i-8TSXipfo4zJHUjz7ViQykA	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Oscarsson, for the question! From my point of view, it is the authority's responsibility to assess whether this was a business good deal or not. I don't have any details about it, nor should I have them. As far as I am aware, the relevant reports made to the police, the Ombudsman for Justice, the Competition Authority and the Chancellor of Justice have led to the closure of the audits. A notification to the European Commission on state aid is now pending. We have not heard anything from the Commission yet. We do not know whether they will open any investigation into this. On the other hand, the Swedish National Audit Office has initiated an audit. I cannot and shall not precede this examination. Of course, I welcome the examination of the matter by all relevant authorities, including the Swedish National Audit Office. It is extremely good that we have these authorities, and I have full faith in them. All authorities shall carry out their activities in accordance with applicable laws and regulations in an objective and effective manner. This means that all authorities should also actively combat corruption and irregularities in their activities. On the other hand, there is no legal obstacle to an authority selling an activity to a former employee. Of course, an authority should always observe the principles of objectivity and impartiality in the form of government and strive to avoid giving, or not being perceived as giving, undue advantages to anyone. In the present case, an employee at SMHI reported his interest. Negotiations were initiated and resulted in a sale of certain property at a price that SMHI assessed corresponded to the business result that could be achieved. I do not know the details of SMHI's considerations, but I have full confidence in both the Authority and the Swedish National Audit Office's review of this business. Let me also add something to the question of customers. SMHI assessed that if the liquidation were to become public before the sale of the property, any competitor would quickly recruit the customers and thereby undermine the customer stock and conditions for anyone to make the necessary investments. There is also another factor regarding profitability, which Mikael Oscarsson has not mentioned but as SMHI points out. It's about exchange rates. The whole business is heavily dependent on the dollar rate. It was estimated that with the falling rate for the Swedish krona and the dependence on the dollar price, the future and a deal were very uncertain. This is a part that has been weighed into it. The Government is now awaiting the review by the Swedish National Audit Office.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-121	Madam President, I would like It is about selling a business area of 5.5 million, the same area that in the first half of this year had invested 10 million in developing. It would have been cheaper to just cancel customer contracts, stop IT development and close down operations already in February if the purpose had been to save money. We can look at the economic outcome between 2015 and 2019. Then we see that there has been a turnover of between 45 and 49 million, and there has been a profit. In 2015, profits amounted to 10 million, and in the years before, there were even higher profits. Then it has been about 2 – 3 million a year, except last year, when there was a loss of 3.1 million. But it should be remembered that this includes the closure of local offices in Malmö and Sundsvall that had nothing to do with this business. It charged 1.3 million, and also a renovation of the headquarters to get a nice glass frame in the entrance was added to this company. The government says it has not been sold at a lower price. However, a professional, marketable assessment of the company's value has been said to be between 50 and perhaps up to 100 million. This is an extremely lucrative industry with high profit margins. We can make a comparison with Stormgeo, a competitor who does weather services. They had revenues of NOK 123 million, and the result was NOK 40 million. Note also that SMHI has a deficit of forecast meteorologists. The staff who chose to join Gale Force could all have been offered other tasks at SMHI. To immediately close down SMHI Maritime would have been a better deal for taxpayers. The cost of development had been minimised and the cost of redundancies had also been minimised. Now we come a little bit to the heart of the matter. Commercialism means – and I think everyone understands this – that the agency either takes in several bidders or has an independent valuation carried out. It's obvious. There are at least two Swedish competitors to Gale Force. I am thinking of Noorcare and Stormgeo, who are well known at SMHI. None of these operators have been invited to bid. The price is set unilaterally by SMHI's own administrators. You say that yourself in a DN article. The Government seems to be in some way satisfied when she reads out her reply about the bodies that have received notifications. Let's see what happened. The case is with the police. There is a report of infidelity to the principal as well as corruption and bribery. This is currently being tried by the District Attorney's office in Norrköping. The Competition Authority says that the anti-competitive public selling rules do not address this type of situation, i.e. a one-off sale of government property at a potentially underpriced price. So there is no legislation to focus on this once it has happened and is no longer an ongoing affair. It writes: There is thus no sales activity to supervise. The Competition Authority refers to the JO, which has a similar wording. The Competition Authority then says that last week the European Commission announced that it has received the notification, that it has been translated and can now be handled according to the usual procedures. So the situation is very worrying. Are these facts not something that the Government thinks is serious?
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-131	Madam President, I would like Thank you for these questions, Mikael Oscarsson! I believe, of course, that it is extremely important for our authorities to behave in accordance with the laws and regulations in force. What is being said here is something that is now being thoroughly examined by various authorities to see if it has been done in accordance with the law and how to behave. I can only say that no action has been taken by the bodies that have so far looked at the matter. On the question of selling the business cheaply, the answer from the Authority is that the maritime business segment has been unprofitable for much of the time that the business has been conducted. Only when the dollar price was highest in 2015–2017 was the business segment profit-making. The purchase price for the property in question was SEK 5.5 million, but SMHI has assessed that the value that the sales represent for them amounts to approximately SEK 20 million. In addition to the sale of IT software, this includes the transfer of several employees to the buyer and the purchase of meteorological services by the new owner during a transitional period. In this way, the approach helps to reduce SMHI's decommissioning costs. Thus, the authority has quite the opposite view to what Mikael Oscarsson says, i.e. that it would have been cheaper just to put this down straight off. The transaction has reduced the decommissioning costs by transferring several employees to the buyer and the new owner has purchased various maturology services during a transitional period. According to SMHI, the sale has not been made at a lower price. SMHI made the assessment that if the decommissioning were to become public before the sale, as I said earlier, any competitor would be able to quickly recruit customers and thereby undermine the customer stock and conditions for the necessary investments. The authority has then assessed that the chosen approach was the business best. If it had been done differently, it would have produced worse results. This is, of course, something that the Swedish National Audit Office will also look at in its review. I can't anticipate that test.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-137	Madam President, I would like I find this worrying. The results report shows that in 2015 more than 10 million were made in profit. In 2016 they made 1.8 million in profit, in 2017 they made 2.1 million and in 2018 the profit was 3 million. Then there was a loss of 3 million in 2019, but over half of the costs were not directly related to this area. It is also important to know that this is a single Council authority, where the Director-General has a great deal of power. There is no board. There is a transparency council, but there is very little transparency. The Director General reports directly to the Department. That is why it is serious that the Government takes the criticism so lightly. If I were a minister, I would really get into this and see that the evidence is not correct. Commercialism means that the authority either takes in several bidders or has an independent valuation carried out. That's a matter of course. The questions I have asked still remain: what are the guidelines when it comes to cutting off activity? Here they have sold to a former manager who then took over the company, a company where only during this year they have invested 10 million, and they sold it at extra price, 5.5 million. We can't have that! This is, of course, tax money that could be used much better. I hope that the Government will now go home and read through the matter and see that it is not reasonably handled.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-142	Madam President, I would like This is, of course, an issue that has been very seriously examined by a variety of bodies, which we have already gone through. I would like to emphasise once again that SMHI has taken independent decisions on how the sale should be carried out on a commercial basis. The Department has been informed of the planned winding-up. However, there has not been a discussion about sales amounts or potential buyers, and that is also how it should be. It is up to the Authority to make these assessments. It would not be appropriate for the Minister or the Government to go into details of how authorities conduct their business and a business segment. We have a principle in Sweden about the independence of authorities, and there you also need to have trust-based governance. We also have laws and rules, which I outlined very clearly in my first speech. We have the Budget Act, and we have, among other things, the regulation on the transfer of state movable property, which really clearly sets out how this type of activity can be carried out. Sales cases shall be handled without undue consideration. It is for the Authority to ensure that the price is market-oriented, and it can be ensured in different ways. Of course, in general terms I find it extremely important that the authorities in no way undermine confidence and that money should be used in the best way for taxpayers. Now the Swedish National Audit Office has an opportunity to review this matter, and I look forward to that review.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-146	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me about the proposals from the report of the 2014 custody inquiry and when they will be implemented. It is important that the rules on custody, housing and social relations are designed to ensure the best interests of the child and to reduce the risk of harming the child as a result of long-term conflicts. In most cases, it is best for the child to agree on matters concerning the child. It is therefore important that parents are offered good opportunities to reach consensus solutions. The 2014 custody inquiry proposes, among other things, to reduce the number of disputes concerning custody, housing and access to court. In the Government Office, work is now under way to produce a legislative referral based on the custody inquiry report. As I have pointed out before, the issues are important for the government, and the aim is for the Council of Law referral to be decided at the beginning of next year.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-149	Madam President, I would like This is not the first time Morgan Johansson and I have been standing in this Chamber discussing the investigation See the child! I once referred to children as fresh produce, which Morgan Johansson, of course, strongly denied on the grounds that children are individuals. What I was referring to was the fact that children are not children for more than a limited period of time and that it is therefore particularly important that decisions and legislative changes affecting children must be made quickly. The fact that Morgan Johansson and the government do not share that picture is obvious. So this is about the 2014 custody investigation. Many years have passed since that inquiry was set up, and I myself participated in it during my first parliamentary term. Was it something that all of us in the reference group agreed on was that court disputes are harmful to both the child and the parents' relationship with the child. We need to get away from litigation in court as far as possible and as quickly as possible, because everyone is losing out on a court dispute. The government does not have the same focus at all, at least not when it comes to solving this quickly. We had a debate a year ago that was largely about the investigation See the child! , although what I asked then was rather a project that we followed in the investigation and which later ended. I recall that it was pointed out at that time that a thousand days had passed. Unfortunately, it is not as in the story, that is, a thousand and a night; instead, it is a thousand days and a year ago. Many of the children who, at the time of the investigation, were at risk of getting into a custody dispute are currently adults. That's how bad it gets when the government chooses to drag the matter to the bottom. What proposals, then, do the government not think deserve the same swift treatment as, for example, the afgha-namestin, or the secondary school law as it is also called? In addition, it has been transformed into an amnesty before the government has even introduced a single proposal from the 2014 custody inquiry. It says a lot about what is really a priority. At least it's not the kids! The care inquiry has put forward a wide range of proposals. They have made proposals for cooperation agreements, for the best interests of children to be clearer in the legal text, for the rights of the child to be heard and strengthened, for the position of children to be clarified and for mediators to be competent. They have proposed certain confidentiality for mediators in court and to make joint custody possible even if the parents oppose it. They have put forward proposals to increase the opportunities for children to speak and for parents' ability to cooperate to be irrelevant. Instead, parents should be able to take joint responsibility for the child. Disputes should be resolved as early and as soon as possible. The investigation has also put forward proposals on requirements for participation in information talks prior to a court dispute. These briefings shall provide knowledge and understanding of legislation and practices. The discussions should provide knowledge about the court process and about research as well as understanding of how the child is affected by the conflict. They will also provide the opportunity for cooperation agreements and for agreements on support and assistance in other forms. So it is a very long series of proposals that have never been made.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-158	Madam President, I would like I don't like talking about children as commodities. Children are individuals with their own rights. That is my starting point. I also think it is clear that the important thing for Mikael Eskilandersson and the Swedish Democrats is that there should be no disputes. Rather, the important thing for me is that children have a safe and good childhood. That is the perspective you have to have in essence. The short answer to the interpellation is that legislative proposals come at the beginning of next year. Then everyone will see both the overall picture and the proposals in detail. This has been an urgent and to some extent a complicated process, but I think it is important to have history clear. There was a reform in 1998, which placed much more emphasis on joint custody. The following years it became a practice for the courts to have joint custody as a presumption. There was a very strong criticism of this from various quarters, especially from violent women who thus ended up in situations of joint custody with a violent man, although perhaps that was the basis of the whole conflict from the beginning. This we thought was important to change, that is, to increase the possibilities of sole custody in these cases so that children would not have to grow up with the blows of the violent man. As a result, there were also more disputes. Not a double number, as Mikael Eskilandersson claims in his interpellation, because one has to rule out the custody cases where the social welfare committee is seeking. But there were more disputes between parents; the increase was about 50 percent. It may not be surprising, for if there are more cases of sole custody, there will also be more cases where perhaps an inappropriate parent begins a dispute – cases where there may be a background of violence in the relationship. A dispute therefore does not have to be a failure, but it may well be a natural consequence of legislation in which, against that background, there were increased opportunities for sole custody. The Swedish democrats have a unilateral male perspective here. This has been made very clear in the debates I have had with Mikael Eskilandersson. There is no understanding of the very background: that it may well be that these are men who are not actually suitable as guardians. I say that we should not have a one-sided man's perspective on these issues. Nor should we have a unilateral women's perspective. We're going to have a child's perspective. That is why this report is called See the Child! It's not called See the Father! Or see the mother! It's called See the Child! And the question that we should always ask ourselves is not what's good for the father or what's good for the mother. The question that we should always ask ourselves is what is good for the child. That is also what we are working on now, and you will see the legislative proposals at the beginning of next year. I will not say too much about the content of them, but I can say so much that what is guiding us is that it is the best interests of the child that should be crucial in all matters relating to housing, custody and association, and that the child's right to receive information and to speak should be strengthened. For example, it should not be possible for a guardian to stop a child from speaking in a custody dispute. That view must be expressed. Some of these proposals will be taken forward and, as I said, you will see the whole at the beginning of next year. This is an important reform, and it is important that the starting point is always the needs of children, the safety of children and a safe upbringing.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-171	Madam President, I would like After all, it is almost ridiculous to claim that there is a unilateral male perspective in me when I try to highlight the child's right to both his or her parents and the child's rights in a custody dispute. An important reform, we hear from Morgan Johansson. How important is a reform that can be laid on the shelf in principle year in and year out without ever being implemented? Not one of the proposals I listed earlier has been implemented, despite the fact that there is a broad majority for it in this House and despite the fact that there is a ready-made proposal presented and submitted by the 2014 custody inquiry. In addition, the Government has introduced the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law. There has been a rather interesting report on the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, SOU 2020:63, which was presented in November. It says that the suggestions contained in See the Child! should have been implemented, at least several of them. For example, on p. 767 in Volume 2 of this study – it is quite long – you can read the following: A related issue concerns the fact that both parents oppose joint custody in a custody dispute. A court may not decide that custody of the child should be shared, even if it would be in the best interests of the child(Chapter 6). Section 5, FB). Such regulation cannot be considered to have resulted from the best efforts of the State to ensure the recognition of the principle that both parents have joint responsibility for the child's upbringing and development. It can also be discussed whether the regulation is compatible with Article 3(1) of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. That Article requires the best interests of the child to be taken into account and to be of major interest in any action concerning children. ..................................................... From this it would appear that it is the government that is not looking after the child's best interests and perhaps has other points of view. Just because I refuse to see all men as perpetrators of violence, I do not have a one-sided male perspective when I take a position on the proposals. What can be seen from the report on the Convention on the Rights of the Child is that at least a few of the proposals in Se barnen! must be implemented in order for Sweden to comply with the Convention on the Rights of the Child at all. In other words, they should be implemented urgently and could also have been implemented when the Convention on the Rights of the Child was introduced as a law. For me, it is quite obvious that you should not put it in a long line and constantly let it end up at the bottom of the government's list of priorities. In fact, I do not understand why not one of all the proposals proposed in the See the Child! have been able to become a team yet. Why do they have to be drawn in such an extreme weight that we are talking about the 2014 custody inquiry in 2020? It will not be implemented this year. It may, hopefully, be implemented by summer or possibly by 2022.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-177	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson and SD have a one-sided man perspective. What you keep lifting up and sticking to is the increased number of disputes. It's like that's the problem. Indeed, the problem before implementing the reform in 2006 was that the presumption of joint custody led also to some inappropriate guardians, such as violent men, being given custody of children within the framework of joint custody. This was one of the problems following the 1998 reform, which was addressed in 2006. This is the background that the Swedish Democrats do not understand, but they get caught up in the fact that this has led to more disputes. Well, it could be a consequence of increasing the possibilities of sole custody. Then we also had more disputes – not a double number of disputes, as Mikael Eskilandersson claims, but an increase of about 50 percent in these cases. There are still more disputes, but the important thing here is not how many disputes there are or that disputes arise. The important thing is that the children have a good upbringing. Now, as I said, there are legislative proposals for some of these issues in order to make it easier to come to an agreement anyway in the face of such a dispute. I will leave the legislative proposals at the beginning of next year so that we make reforms in those parts. It is not that I see all men as violent, as Mikael Eskilandersson is trying to get it done. But I see that there may be a problem in some of these disputes, and the legislator has to take heights in order to resolve those disputes and sometimes make rather difficult decisions. The vast majority of us who are fathers are good fathers. But there are those who are not good and who cannot take care of children, and children should not have to grow up with their perpetrators under constant beatings. That is why we extended the scope for sole custody in 2006. There is also another perspective here that I think you should take in when discussing joint custody and sole custody. It is that sometimes there can also be a problem of honour, that is, that one of the guardians maintains a damaging and oppressive culture of honor. It could be the mother. It could be the father. One of them can do it. This must also be taken into account when deciding who should have custody. This, in turn, can lead to a dispute, that is to say, anyone who has not been given custody goes to court and wants the dispute resolved. Mikael Eskilandersson must understand that the possibility of sole custody must then continue to exist. My point is that you should not get caught up in how many disputes there are or that there are disputes. We will always have that, but we will try as much as possible to ensure that the disputes can be resolved before they come to court. I say again that the bill that we are about to present will have the best interests of the child in mind. It is not about the parents' right to their children but about the child's right to their parents and, above all, the child's right to a safe and good upbringing. It is the responsibility of society to try to ensure that in as many cases as possible. The Council's referral will be said shortly, at the beginning of next year, and then legislation will come to Parliament. That's the plan.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-187	Madam President, I would like Of course, the problem is that children get hurt. If Morgan Johansson had done what he is appointed to do and made sure that the fathers who expose their children or their respective beatings had been in prison instead of being out in their families, we would never have had to discuss that the woman needs sole custody, for then the man would automatically have been away from that family. Maybe that's where you should focus, that is, punishing those men who actually expose their loved ones to blows. It can't be okay. Otherwise, the government's policy does not go hand in hand with what its representatives claim. Standing in the speaker's chair and saying that parents should reach a consensus solution is easy, especially when you do not even try to speed up legislation in that direction. On the contrary, it has been pushed into the future for a great many years. It is clear to me that the government has given priority other than the custody inquiry, despite the fact that there is no major disagreement about those proposals and measures. We all agree that custody disputes should preferably be dealt with outside the court as far as possible. What we do not agree on is whether it is an important issue that should be prioritised, as I say, or whether the issue can wait while the government gives priority in principle to everything else – as the government has de facto done. The suggestions in See the Child! should already be completed. There are no excuses. As I will not be able to respond to Morgan Johansson's closing speech, I would like to take this opportunity to distance myself from anything he may claim about me or my party.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-191	Madam President, I would like I am also trying to keep to the point in the final speeches. The first question raised by Mikael Eskilandersson at the end is whether we should punish these perpetrators of violence or get to it in other ways. It goes without saying, of course, that the crimes committed within the family should be combated. I would say that we have given that type of crime more priority than any other government has. I can only see now at the end that the police are strengthening their operations. 350 new investigators have been recruited, which will focus specifically on crimes in close relationships. Honorable crimes are part of this, but also the general assault cases that occur in close relationships. We are now making a huge effort on both the police and the criminal side to ensure that these crimes are combated. There is no contradiction in this. Of course, the perpetrators are to be caged and convicted for the crimes they have committed. When it comes to the issue of custody, it is important to ensure that there is a higher level of legislation for this. Then you must not be afraid that there may sometimes be a dispute if the violent man in question does not get custody of the child. He may then go to court on the matter, and then you must not be afraid that it will be so. I am in favour of this, and I am also in favour of the reform we made in 2006, which made this possible to a greater extent. I think it has been important to simply send a clear signal: If you are violent, not suitable as a parent and behave in this way, you have forfeited your right to have custody of your child. I think this is an incredibly important signal to send to the perpetrators we are talking about here. As I said, Madam President, we will now be working on this legislative proposal. We will bring it to the Riksdag during the spring, and the legislative referral will be made at the beginning of next year.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-197	Madam President, I would like Henrik Vinge has asked me if I and the government are planning a further expansion of the Prison Service beyond what has now been announced. Furthermore, Henrik Vinge asks if the government is ready to provide additional funds if the client forecast is revised upwards even after 2023. The questioner would also like to know whether I am going to postpone penalties for the lack of capacity now and for the foreseeable future. The increase we see in the number of prisoners in Sweden's detention centres is, among other things, an effect of the government's policy of more effective law enforcement. The government has tightened the penalties in several areas, which has affected the occupancy of prisons. More are sentenced to prison, and the sentenced are allowed to spend longer. The government's punitive measures have also led to the arrest of more people. The Prison Service is responsible for its own provision of premises within the financial framework allocated to them, and the Agency shall continuously adapt the number of places within the detention centre to the need. After a stoppage in the mid-00s, the population in the Prison Service decreased over a number of years. This led to an over-capacity of sites. The prison services therefore, in accordance with their instructions, decommissioned a number of places. After 2014 and our access, however, the average number of places has increased by approximately 500 to today, and the number of places in the form of both temporary and regular prisons continues to increase. The Ministry of Corrections is expanding with an additional 2,000 permanent seats up to 2029, based on the development plan presented by the Agency on behalf of the Government in March 2020. In last year's budget, the Prison Service received significantly increased funding, with SEK 130 million for 2020, SEK 569 million for 2021 and SEK 729 million from 2022 onwards. Now the government continues to strengthen the capacity of the Correctional Service through further major additions. The additions enable the agency to continue to expand and create more places both here and now and for the future. In order to provide the Prison Service with enhanced capacity, the Government has proposed additional funding increases of SEK 369 million in 2021, SEK 985 million in 2022 and SEK 1 23 5 million in 2021 as of 2023. Correctional services are now about to speed up the expansion work. Decisions have been made on expansion, modifications and new constructions in Kalmar, Trelleborg, Kristianstad and Helsingborg, at Hall in Södertälje and at Tidaholm. That is a good thing, and the government will continue to monitor developments in the Prison Service very closely. The government is pursuing an offensive criminal policy and has carried out a large number of penalties in recent years. The government will continue its efforts to combat crime and its causes. Criminal justice reforms and the expected increase in efficiency in the rest of the legal chain will affect the occupancy and place requirements of the Prison Service. The capacity of the criminal services is therefore being expanded, and one of these needs to be done quickly, safely, cost-effectively and with a high degree of flexibility.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-203	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The reason we have more people in prison today than before is because we have more criminals than before. Crime is spreading in our country, and it is becoming more and more severe. This is a consequence of the fact that this and previous governments have been pursuing a irresponsible immigration policy for a long time. It is clear that the Government and the Government now want us to believe that the reason for the overcrowding is that the Government has pursued a far-sighted and well-thought-out policy of penetrating more criminals. But, Madam President, if this was a conscious government strategy, and it was envisaged that more people would be caged, more prisons would also have been built. That has not been done, on the contrary – we have fewer permanent prisons today than we had ten years ago. This is because it is not at all a conscious strategy from the government. Instead, it is a consequence of the government having been completely taken to bed. It has not been possible to predict this development of society at all, but has fallen victim to its own rhetoric. It was not long ago that this government claimed that Sweden has never been more secure. Crime is decreasing. My Sweden does not build walls, and so on. Of course, if you think you're living in a country with eternal sunshine, you won't buy an umbrella. If you believe that crime is decreasing, you will not build more places in prison, but you will cut the places down. That is exactly what has happened. Now reality has forced the government to reconsider. It has been calculated that it is not possible to be re-elected if you do not take criminal policy seriously. That is why the government has also taken a number of steps in the right direction in this area. I must admit that we agree in many respects there. Unfortunately, Madam President, many of these proposals deal with what has been done when television cameras have been on and to get good headlines. The way in which the activity has worked in practice has often come second. When, for example, the Prosecutor's Office has requested efforts and said that you need more resources to prosecute all these people who have to be in prison, the government has not wanted to open the wallet in the same way. When the courts have said that they need more resources to be able to judge all these criminals, they have been much more cheap. And when the Correctional Service has said that they need resources to build more prison places so that all criminals can be put in jail, the government has wanted to be stingy. This, Madam President, has unfortunately led us to a number of bottlenecks in the system. It takes a very long time to get a sentence, and the Correctional Service has now raised the suspension period before you start serving your prison sentence to 100 days, once the sentence has fallen. Unfortunately, it undermines the whole belief in the judiciary when there is far too much time between the crime and the sentence. I am concerned that none of what Morgan Johansson is now saying indicates that this will be better in the near future. On the contrary, according to the government's own forecast, we will live with overcrowding for ten years. That, Madam President, is something that seriously concerns me about future developments.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-212	Madam President, I would like First of all, you might want to keep the numbers in order. Henrik Vinge says that there are fewer places now than ten years ago. I was not Minister of Justice ten years ago, but during the six years that I have been responsible for, the total number of prison and prison places in the Prison Service has increased by 500. There was another government, with Henrik Vinge's friends in the Moderates, who ruled earlier. At that time, the Prison Service was underfunded in such a way that it could not even always manage to maintain the physical environment. Prisons, prisons, and detention centres were allowed to decay so that eventually you could not even continue – you had to close some places during that time. But during my time, the number of places in Correctional Services has increased. It's important, I'd still like to say. We will continue to increase the number of sites with the development plans ahead of us. I do not think anyone has gone beyond the massive pressure that the law enforcement authorities are now putting on organised crime. Hardly a day goes by without seeing the effects of this when you see police, prosecutors and other law enforcement authorities stepping up towards organised crime. It's an effect of our police efforts. There's more money going to the police than ever. It is an effect of increased arrest possibilities. It is an effect of increased interception so that communication between criminals can be monitored. It's an effect of increased camera surveillance. 450 cameras are now up, and another 150 are on their way up to the crime scene. And, Madam President, it is an effect of the increased penalties. There are those who say that the penalties have been tightened up, but it has certainly not mattered because the courts have not imposed any penalties. Those who say that are wrong. Last year, Swedish courts sentenced a total of over 10,000 prison years. That's an increase of 30% over the last two years. Our punitive measures have had an effect, and those who claim otherwise are wrong in that part. It is a little strange, however, that the Swedish Democrats and Henrik Vinge choose to take the debate. Henrik Vinge and his party have shown no understanding whatsoever that the Prison Service has needed more money. It was the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats who trumped through a 2018 budget when we were transitional government, who underfunded the Prison Service with over 300 million SEK. It was deeply troubling. The big investment in the budget you ran through was not on welfare or on the judiciary, but it was 20 billion in tax cuts. It was the SD, the KD and the Moderates who pushed this through. Then you underfunded the Correctional Service with $300 million. The Correctional Service had requested SEK 395 million. They only got 85 of you. I had long talks with Nils Öberg, then head of the Prison Service, about how the Prison Service would interpret the Riksdag Decision. Would they start implementing major savings in the Prison Service? And he asked me for advice. I said that I was in a transitional government and that I couldn't give him any advice, that I couldn't control the authorities that way. But I said I could guarantee that if we came back as a government, he'd get his money so the Correctional Service could continue the rollout. When we came back as a government in January 2019 was one of the very first we did to increase the funding for the Prison Service by first 200 million and then another 300 million. We shot at half a billion in a single year because you hadn't, Henrik Vinge. If you think it is so extremely important, Henrik Vinge, to invest in the Prison Service, why did you not fund the Prison Service in the budget that the right parties pushed through in autumn 2018?
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-220	Madam President, I would like The answer to this question is that the budget that has put the greatest resources into the Prison Service this year and earlier years is the Swedish Democrats' budget. If Morgan Johansson had really wanted to finance the Prison Service properly, he could have asked his party colleagues in the Riksdag to vote on that budget. The situation with the transitional budget was special, but what can be seen is that the budget we supported was, in any case, better spent than the transitional budget. I agree with Morgan Johansson that it is important that we continue to invest in the judiciary. As I mentioned in my introduction, I think that the government has taken some steps in the right direction, although it is late and the steps may be too small. Madam President, I would like I would like to highlight a different perspective on this issue, and that is because I have worked as a correctional officer. I know what it means when there is overcrowding in prisons and prisons, when the inmates live close and when there is increased concern. This leads to increased risks, increased levels of conflict and increased violence. Who, then, need to step forward and intervene when violence occurs? It is, of course, the Correctional Officers. Since there are many hazardous situations within the Prison Service, they try to reduce what they call client close cooperation. The reason why we want to reduce this is because it is dangerous. When I was working in jail, a colleague of mine was beaten to death by an inmate when she was alone with him in the yard. Why is there cooperation at all in situations where it is both dangerous and prohibited? The reason, of course, is a lack of resources. There are too few colleagues. Then you have to understand that the people who work in the Swedish penitentiary are good people. It is people who want to make a difference, and it is people who want to carry out the task that they have been assigned to do. If there is a shortage of resources, there is too little money or too few colleagues, they will often roll up their sleeves and try to solve that task anyway even if it involves cooperation. It must be understood that this is not just an abstract issue we are discussing, but an issue that affects people of flesh and blood who will face these dilemmas, especially during Christmas. Many colleagues in the Prison Service will then take time off, and many will also be at home with cold symptoms at this time. This means that they will face dilemmas to choose between not being able to solve a task or solving it with cooperation. The risk that the dutiful, hardworking people will be exposed to is a risk that has arisen because the government has been too cheap with the resources for the Prison Service. It upsets me and many others.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-227	Madam President, I would like Too cheap with resources," says Henrik Vinge, who himself just pushed through a budget that underfunded the Prison Service with SEK 300 million, which led to a hack into the curve. Our plan was to continue the expansion. But when you pushed through the under-financing, you delayed those plans by over six months because the Correctional Service did not receive a clear signal from the Riksdag to continue to push forward. At some point the Swedish democrats must take responsibility for the decisions you are making. It's not a game or a game. When you press the button here and thereby underfinance the Prison Service with several hundred million SEK, it matters precisely to the people who work in the Prison Service, those who Henrik Vinge is talking about. If it hadn't been for SD, Moderates and KD, the expansion plan would have gone faster. I have another example of how SD acts in a purely destructive way. One of our major investments is a new large institution in southern Sweden. There were advanced plans to build a new large prison in Svedala. Everything was ready in practice. So we are talking about an investment of a couple of billions and 300 – 400 jobs. It was a huge thing and an extremely important part to accomplish our mission. Then the Swedish Democrats locally in Svedala began to campaign against the institution and do what the Swedish Democrats are best at, namely to scare people. You can't have an institution here because who knows what it's gonna be like. This was a political campaign against the institution's establishment, and it was finally successful in stopping it in 2018. After a new decision, this facility will now be built in Trelleborg. This behaviour by the Swedish Democrats meant that we lost over two years for a large and important investment. I say to Henrik Vinge that it is not good enough to stand in this Chamber and say that it is very important to invest in the Prison Service, that it is very important to put more money into the Prison Service, that it is very important to ensure that there are more prisons and detention centres, and then, in the next breath, act exactly the opposite way and under-finance the Prison Service and stop such urgent local efforts. I did not get an answer to the question why Henrik Vinge underfunded the Prison Service with 300 million. Then he can answer another question. We will build on a wide range of locations in Sweden. Can Henrik Vinge guarantee that his party will not repeat what they did in Svedala, that is to say act as a brake block? Can I get a guarantee from Henrik Vinge and his party that they will act constructively also locally to ensure that the urgent extensions, renovations and investments that need to be made are put in place? This is a message I would like from Henrik Vinge and his party.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-233	Madam President, I would like I am pleased with the newly won commitment of the Government to the Prison Service. I hope that this will lead us to see the necessary investments and expansions. Perhaps it is happening much faster than in the forecast that we have seen where we talk about overcrowding going on for ten years. I want to get back to what I said earlier. It is in the Swedish Democrats' budget that it is invested most both in the justice system in general and in the Prison Service. There is 5 billion more for the judiciary and 750 million more for the Prison Service. If the Government wants to increase resources for the Prison Service, we are of course interested in discussing it. Of course, we should also be happy to support our draft budget if we wish – we do so ourselves. In fact, the party that has voted for a budget that provides the most resources to the Prison Service is the Swedish Democrats. As far as the accusations are concerned, I think it is a bit of an alternative fact that Morgan Johansson turns around with. But I'd like to come back a little bit to the forecast for the future. So the government estimates that overcrowding will last another ten years. It is based on a forecast that the number of prisoners will not increase after 2023. Then we will apparently be back in the eternal sunshine, where Sweden was earlier. It's never been safer than then. I must say that I am not very impressed by the calculation of what the future will look like. I believe that it will be considerably gloomier and that, with this forecast too, the government will not achieve its goal. But I can answer the Government's question: It is clear that we will be constructive as to where the places of detention will be expanded. However, when the government wakes up in this way and vexation and quickly throws forward these proposals in order to have a chance not to lose too much in public opinion, the chances are that the proposals may sometimes not be well thought out. Now I am not familiar with this particular proposal in detail, but it is possible that Trelleborg was a better place to expand than Svedala. In that case, it was a good thing to make that change.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-240	Madam President, I would like No, the design of Svedala was not something that was quickly thrown out, but it was a design that had been going on for many, many years. Everything was finished in practice when the Swedish Democrats and others started to think: But wait now. Couldn't there be some populist points to take here and now? It's almost election time, 2018. Should we not campaign against this establishment? That's what happened. As I said, we lost over two years in time on this. That's 300 seats. It's a big prison we're talking about. It is a huge investment, perhaps of up to SEK 2 billion. But then Henrik Vinge says that you will not do that in the future. Then I'll have to trust his word in that part. This is not a new commitment, Henrik Vinge. I've been in prisons and jails for over 20 years. I think I have a pretty good idea of what it looked like earlier, what it looks like now and how it is going with the extension. I'm open, of course. We see that there are 2 000 seats in the plane that now exists. Let's say the Correctional Service would say: No, that's not enough. That prognosis is cracking. We need additional seats. We need to do even more. We need even more money. Then I intend to ensure that the Correctional Service has the resources that the Correctional Service needs to solve its mission. I also see that the penalty is not over. We will put forward more such proposals in the future. Then it is important that we also set aside resources so that the Prison Service has this all the time. But you can look at the Swedish Democrats' account. When you see how you have acted, it is in the barrel that you underfunded the Prison Service 2018 together with the Moderates and KD and that you also stopped the urgent investments locally. I now hope, as I said, that we can continue to push this work forward with great vigour and efficiency. In any case, we will do so from our side to ensure that the Prison Service has good prospects in the future.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-248	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me if the government will come back with legislative proposals that can equate Swedish parents at the birth of the child. As I have said before, it is important that parental law is developed in line with society in general and with the best interests of the child in focus. The government is therefore actively working in this area. The present system of confirmation of paternity and parenthood when parents are unmarried is perceived by many as complicated and out-of-date. The need for modernisation has also been addressed by the Riksdag, which announced in 2015 that there were reasons for the government to investigate issues regarding investigations concerning paternity for unmarried people. Against this background, the Government set up an investigation which was, among other things, tasked with proposing how the scheme for the confirmation of paternity and parenthood of unmarried people can be modernised and simplified. The assignment was presented in 2018. The study has looked at the issue widely and considered ways to simplify and modernise the scheme. The investigation has considered an extended possibility of confirmation before the birth of the child, including in maternal care, but considered that such a possibility should not be introduced. The proposal that the investigation lands in means that it must be possible to confirm a paternity or parenthood electronically to the Swedish Tax Agency within 14 days of the child's birth, without the involvement of the Social Security Board. The Government intends to present a legislative referral shortly in which the Government will take a position on the proposals and assessments of the investigation.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-252	Madam President, I would like Yeah, what do you say? The children's perspective seems to be completely lacking in the government. How will the child be entitled to both of his or her parents from birth? Yes, the short answer to that question seems to be: It is not necessary. These are investigations, investigations and even more investigations. Of course, it is easy to set up an investigation and then refer to the investigation. It should preferably be a tied-up investigation that you already know in advance what to say. However, it becomes a little more difficult for the government when other investigations, which the government may not have thought of in this context, completely saw the government's neatly controlled investigation. What else can be said about the SOU 2020:63 report on the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which came in November this year? It must be assumed that the government will set up investigations so that the government will actually read and follow the proposals. It must also be assumed that the government is too good to engage in placard politics and that, when they make the ban law, they also intend to change the existing laws to bring them into line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Although the SOU 2020:63 is in three parts, the government should be able to respond promptly to the comments contained therein, in particular the comments that our current legislation directly clashes with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I would like to read a little bit from this particular investigation. Actually, I'm going to read on p. 767. It happens to be the same page that I read in my previous interpellation debate. What I'm about to read is further up on the same page. It's about parents' joint custody responsibility, Article 18(1): Article 18(1) sets out an obligation for a State to do its best to ensure the principle of parental joint custody. In Sweden, such a principle applies to a child with married parents. Otherwise, custody of a child will be added to the mother. This also applies when paternity or parenthood is established by confirmation or judgment. True, it is not very difficult for unmarried parents, for example, to: in connection with a paternity confirmation, make a notification of joint custody. If the parents disagree, however, the parent who wants to change custody needs to go to court and pursue the matter... Such a system, in which only the mother automatically becomes the guardian, is, in our opinion, incompatible with Article 18(1). In other words, Sweden cannot be regarded as having done its best to ensure the recognition of the principle that both parents have joint responsibility for the child's upbringing. Such a system may also be called into question on the basis of the principle of equal treatment enshrined in the Convention, since a child with unmarried parents is less likely to have his or her right to be cared for by both his or her parents than a child with married parents. In the case of a court's decision to change custody, there is no presumption of joint custody. We are discussing this more closely in the chapter on Article 9. .....................................................
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-260	Madam President, I would like The intervention is not about the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but about a completely different investigation. I note that Mikael Eskilandersson would rather take a broad approach than talk about what proposals he has, which are extremely limited. I'll get into it in a minute. Generally speaking, when it comes to children's rights and opportunities in Sweden, I can say that we certainly have a lot that we need to do and correct, but it is still the case that in evaluation after evaluation from international organisations, Sweden is often pointed out as the country in the world where it is best for children to grow up. We are almost always at the top of such evaluations, together with the other Nordic countries, so I think we should basically be proud of what we have done for many decades in Sweden to strengthen children's rights. In order to clarify what the question is about, if you are not married, there is no presumption of paternity, and then paternity must be confirmed, or recognised as you once said a little flimsy. This is done today through a visit to the Social Welfare Board. It can be done before the child's birth today – there are no obstacles to this. Confirmed fatherhood I myself have done three times that way. I cannot say that I felt that it was very complicated, but there can be differences of opinion on this. Of course, everything can be modernised. The current proposal is to be able to make the confirmation from home digitally, for example via a bank ID. Then it is no longer the Social Welfare Board that should deal with the issue, but you do it directly at the Tax Agency. This is based on the fact that the child is given a social security number, and it is given the child when it is born. That's how the system is designed. That's why you have to make the confirmation after birth, not before. If you want to do it before birth, you can do it the old way, i.e. go to the social welfare board and carry out the confirmation. This upsets Mikael Eskilandersson so mildly that he takes a debate after debate, even in the Corona situation we have now, to demand that it be made digital even before birth. And so he claims that this is done in almost all other Nordic countries and that it has been so long, but it is completely wrong. We can take the countries after each other. In Finland, digital confirmations cannot be made at all. That's the first thing. In Denmark you can make digital confirmations, but only after the birth of the child, as in the Swedish proposal. In Norway, new rules have been proposed and also decided to allow it to be done before the birth of the child, but these rules have not entered into force. They enter into force on 1 January 2021, so there is still no functioning system in place in Norway. Although Mikael Eskilandersson wants us to believe that it is a system that has existed for several years, it is not so. I would also like to point out that the Committee on Civil Liberties has not called for digital confirmation to be made before birth, but the committee has said that they want the government to consider this issue, as the government, as has been said, does. There will be a legislative referral on the matter shortly, at the beginning of 2021, and then the parliament and the public will see how we view these issues. However, I would like to point out that the proposal actually represents a substantial modernisation and simplification in these respects.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-268	Madam President, I would like It is almost comical when you listen to Morgan Johansson's rhetoric and when he also tells me what my question is about. I think my question is very clear. It is if the government intends to return with legislative proposals that equate Swedish parents at the birth of the child. It really has nothing to do with the digital confirmation itself. The digital confirmation is only one way to confirm your fatherhood. What I have focused on is that I think it is important for children to have the right to both their parents and to have it as early as possible. It is a little interesting that there are now studies on the Convention on the Rights of the Child that say that the government must come back with legislative proposals if we are to comply with the Convention. The Convention on the Rights of the Child states that children should be entitled to their parents. Then you can always talk about that they do not have digital confirmations in Finland. No, but it is not the digital confirmation that is important, it is that paternity can be registered in Finland before the child is born. In Sweden you can fill out the papers, but then the child depends on the mother's goodwill to get the right to her father. It is not that the father, just because he has completed a few papers before, automatically obtains joint custody when the child is born. Joint custody will only take place when the mother fills out the papers that she wants to give the father joint custody. It is a bit of fun to note that the report on the Convention on the Rights of the Child says exactly everything that the Swedish Democrats have long asked for. Even our motion for a presumption of joint custody is part of the investigation. Then Morgan Johansson can always try to argue that this is a completely different issue. As regards the introduction of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, according to the government, it was apparently not meant to change the law so that it was actually complied with. It seems to have been obvious placard politics to demonstrate the power of action that was actually lacking. The main rule of Article 9(1) is that a child should not be separated from his or her parents against their will. – –– Separation, whatever the cause, shall be necessary for the best interests of the child. The article gives examples of when separation may be necessary: in case of abuse or neglect of the child by the parents... or when the parents live separately and a decision must be made as to where the child is to live. It is not an exhaustive list, but also in other cases a separation may be justified if it is necessary to ensure the best interests of the child. ..................................................... On the other hand, the investigation says that the child must not be separated from his or her parents simply because there is a system in place where joint custody should in principle be approved afterwards, as the mother should in practice do then. What is missing in Sweden is first that one should automatically find out who is the mother and father, in this case. Once this has been done, joint custody should be given in the next step as soon as the child is born. In the vast majority of cases, there is no reason to wait for the baby to be born. The government's argument on paternity issues is, to say the least, limping. Rather, the government sees the father as an unnecessary individual in the child's life. For example, it was introduced that single people should have the right to inseminate, and I did not hear that they argued in any way about whether it is a problem that children are born without a father. I think you should at least let the children who have a famous father get the right to their father.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-277	Madam President, I would like It is clear that Mikael Eskilandersson is trying to escape his own interpellation. It's about electronic confirmation. There is not a word in the interpellation on the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which he now attaches great importance to in his speeches. The interpellation is about when you can make a digital confirmation, and that is what I have responded to in the debate. It seems that Mikael Eskilandersson feels that he is so weak in the debate itself and understands what a micro-issue it is that he now instead wants to talk about a lot of other things, such as insemination and joint custody, which are not really the starting point of his interpellation. But let's do it. We can go back to the interpellation debate that we had just a moment ago. Let me once again point out that the Swedish Democrats and Mikael Eskilandersson have a unilateral male perspective on all these issues. When it comes to issues relating to joint custody and custody disputes, one should not have a one-sided male perspective, nor a one-sided female perspective, but one should have a child perspective. That is what should apply in all these disputes. It is therefore always the child's needs and the right to a safe upbringing that we must start from. This is our position on this issue, and it will be our position on all custody issues that we have to deal with in the future. When Mikael Eskilandersson refers to the other Nordic countries, he does not seem to have understood that he has got things wrong. So the system that he claims the other Nordic countries have does not exist. There is no country in the Nordic countries that currently has a functioning system of digital confirmation prior to the birth of the child. If you in Sweden want to make a confirmation before the child's birth, you can already do so at the Social Welfare Board. Then, of course, supplementary questions always arise about these systems. There are technical problems sometimes, and there may be practical problems. But you can also constantly ask yourself how early you can confirm paternity. This issue is also included, not least now that discussions are taking place in Norway. It now discusses this limit and that if you are to be able to do this digitally, you should not be able to do so before the 22nd week of pregnancy. This, in turn, is linked to both the assessment of the risk of miscarriage and the issue of abortion. It has a certain bearing on this. It is entitled to free abortion until week 18 and after examination until week 22. There is a risk that a system in which a paternity confirmation can be made very early can then be used by the man to pressure the woman not to have an abortion. I also think that we need to be clear about this issue when discussing the confirmation of paternity before the birth of the child. But, once again, there are proposals on the table that are modernising this system and that mean that it is no longer the social welfare committee that should primarily be addressed after the child's birth. You should be able to do it digitally directly at the Swedish Tax Agency. It seems to be an appropriate model to introduce in Sweden as well. As I said, we will proceed with these proposals and submit a legislative referral at the beginning of next year on this. But you should understand that this issue can sometimes be more complex than you might first think.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-284	Madam President, I would like My question is still about the equality of Swedish parents at the birth of the child. The digital confirmation is an excellent opportunity for the government to ensure that it will be possible for the parents to also enter information about joint custody in connection with the child's birth and perhaps to do so before the child is born. Finland confirms who is a father before the child is born. But you don't do it digitally. In my interpellation, I mention that this legislation exists, that is to say that one can confirm one's paternity and thus obtain joint custody from the birth of the child. This will also solve a wide range of inheritance disputes and other problems that could arise. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has pointed out on several occasions that paternity confirmation should be made earlier. We also want the digital confirmation to be made earlier, if we are now to have digital confirmation. It's just a way to do it. Whether you make the confirmation in social services or digitally online, it's about a famous father getting the right to his child and the child getting the right to both of his or her parents. I do not want the government to change its mind because we in Sweden today are violating the Convention on the Rights of the Child, because the government itself has set up an investigation that actually says that the government is obliged to change its mind or for some other strange reason. I want this because it is the best thing for the child, because I believe that children should be entitled to both their parents. When children are young, it is especially important that we stand up for children's rights. The child cannot make his own voice heard when it is born. However, a child born should have the right to have two parents who should have the right to joint custody, even if the parents are not married. I think the government should take that on board.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-289	Madam President, I would like Sometimes it becomes a little difficult to follow what Mikael Eskilandersson is really after and what he is really talking about. Of course, children are entitled to both parents. It is clear that we equate parents in these processes. It is also clear that the possibility to confirm paternity exists before the child's birth. This opportunity exists today. You can do that at the Social Services Board. This possibility is also available in Finland. It doesn't deviate at all. What we are talking about is what the order should be like after the introduction of a digital system. Then I point out that it is based on the fact that there is a social security number with the Swedish Tax Agency, and it gets the child when it is born. But if you want to do this before the birth of the child, it is the old system that applies. You simply go to the Social Welfare Board to deal with this. Then I would like to say that the Committee on Civil Liberties has not said at all that paternity confirmation should be possible digitally before the child is born. The Committee on Civil Liberties has said that the government should consider this issue, and that is exactly what we are doing. But then there must also be technical and practical opportunities to do so. We will simply have to wait until we have finished our process: the legislative referral that is on the way and the legislative proposal that we are working on. But the image that Mikael Eskilandersson is trying to give that this is something that exists in all other Nordic countries is actually wrong. That is not the case. There is no functioning system of digital confirmation prior to the birth of the child in any other Nordic country. As I said, the starting point is always to ensure that Sweden can continue to be one of the world's best countries for children to grow up in. That is what we have in mind in all the questions we are examining, including in this regard.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-295	Madam President! Lars Adaktusson has asked me whether I intend, within the framework of EU cooperation, to actively promote sanctions against Turkey on account of its genocide-like warfare against the Armenian people. Furthermore, Lars Adaktusson has asked whether I am prepared to promote the suspension of Turkey's membership negotiations with the EU as a result of the regime's military abuses in Nagorno-Karabakh and its other destabilising actions in Europe and the Middle East. The government welcomes the fact that Armenia and Azerbaijan agreed a ceasefire on the night of 10 November. The battles have been intense, causing human suffering and considerable damage. Sweden condemns attacks on civil and civil infrastructure. International humanitarian law must be respected. The humanitarian situation is very serious; tens of thousands of civilians have been forced to flee the conflict area, and residential areas and civilian facilities such as schools and hospitals have been destroyed. The situation is exacerbated by the widespread proliferation of covid-19, which the authorities have lacked the capacity to deal with as a result of the fighting. Sweden supports the International Committee of the Red Cross's humanitarian work in the area with SEK 20 million. Clearly, the conflict is not over and many issues remain to be resolved. It is therefore important that the OSSE and the international community remain committed to a long-term sustainable negotiated solution. When, at the end of the year, I take over the position of Chairman of the OSSE, I will continue to support efforts to this end. The Co-Chairman of the Minsk Group, who is the established format for dealing with the conflict, has my full support. In the current situation, the issue of EU sanctions in relation to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict is not relevant, as sanctions are not considered to be the most appropriate means of achieving the objective of a sustainable and peaceful solution. However, sanctions are one of many tools available to the EU. During my visit to Ankara on 13 October, I stressed the importance of bringing about a ceasefire in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict and a return to negotiations under the cooperation of the Minsk Group. The relationship between the EU and Turkey has been facing difficult trials for some time. This is due, on the one hand, to Turkey's actions in its neighbourhood, and, on the other hand, to the negative developments in Turkey in terms of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. At my meeting with Turkey's Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavuşo中l u during my visit to Ankara in October, I raised the vulnerable situation of elected representatives, in particular Kurdish politicians, journalists, human rights defenders, minorities and trade union representatives. The government is also a driving force in international forums such as the EU and the Council of Europe to draw attention to human rights violations. We need to make clear when developments are going in the wrong direction. The EU has taken action with the support of Sweden. Among other things, the EU has introduced a sanction regime due to Turkey's test drilling operations outside Cyprus, which includes the freezing of assets and travel restrictions against persons and companies involved in the test drilling operations. Turkey's approach to the EU has completely stopped because Turkey is moving further and further away from the EU. The Council noted last year that negotiations on EU membership are not topical in the current circumstances.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-302	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank you for your answer. It is clear that the situation has changed since I put the interpellation. As the Foreign Minister said, an agreement has been reached between Armenia and Azerbaijan, and the fighting seems to have ended. This is, of course, to be welcomed. At the same time, it is clear that Armenia has more or less been forced to accept the settlement, which in substance means that Azerbaijan can now retain the areas that it has taken in Nagorno-Karabakh by means of genocide-like warfare. The same applies to the important buffer zones between Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh, which makes this small republic even more lonely and even more isolated. The delight of the Azerbaijani dictatorship over this is deeply worrying. In a statement, President Alijev says that we have always been told that there is no military solution. Now we've shown on the battlefield that it's not true. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like In the wake of the six-week war between Armenia and Azerbaijan, thousands of deaths and widespread human suffering have followed. This war did not start by chance, but it started after Azerbaijan – with the active involvement of Turkey – went to a planned military attack. For Turkey and its Islamist regime, it was simply appropriate to attack the Christian Armenians via agents, thereby strengthening its own influence, or, as President Erdo中an himself has said, to ensure that Turkey has the place in the world order that it deserves. Several reports from human rights organisations and international experts show that Turkish interference has been very extensive. Thus, two dictatorships have jointly attacked a small, democratic nation with 3 million inhabitants. This is reprehensible in all respects, and it must be condemned. That is why, in my interpellation, I stressed the importance of Sweden and the EU acting with targeted sanctions against the responsible Turkey, with a clear stop to Turkey's accession negotiations with the EU. Madam President, I would like Now the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that the issue of sanctions is out of the question. Then why not make sure that it is up to date? If there is will, the government has every opportunity to raise the issue of sanctions in the EU community. What we are talking about is Turkish crimes against international law and a small, vulnerable population who are attacked and forced to flee for their lives. Then it is not good enough to give the answer that sanctions are not up to date, Ann Linde.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-307	Madam President, I would like Sweden has consistently supported efforts to de-escalate the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict and a peaceful, sustainable solution to it. I have spoken to both Azerbaijan's Foreign Minister and Armenia's then Foreign Minister, and I have also had talks with the three countries acting as co-chairmen of the Minsk Group, namely the United States, Russia and France. The Minsk Group is the established negotiating format within the OSSE to deal with this conflict. From the Swedish side, we have also been consistent in our view that the involvement of external actors must be avoided, in line with the conclusions of the European Council of 1 and 2 October. In my talks with Turkey's Foreign Minister Çavuşo中lu in October, I impressed on you the need for an immediate end to the fighting and reopened negotiations between the parties. As I mentioned earlier, the issue of sanctions on the part of the European Union in relation to Nagorno-Karabakh is not relevant in the current situation. The most important thing is to bring about a sustainable and peaceful solution, and at present sanctions are not deemed appropriate in this respect. The ceasefire agreed between Armenia and Azerbaijan on the night of 10 November can hopefully be a first step towards a sustainable peace. At the same time, however, we must not forget that the humanitarian situation continues to be very serious for the Armenians and Azeri who have been forced to flee their homes. Humanitarian organisations bear witness to the widespread need for support. The only international aid organisation operating on the ground is the In ternational Committee of the Red Cross. Sweden supports its humanitarian work with SEK 20 million, and the EU supports it with EUR 500 000. Persons involved in serious violations of international law, including international humanitarian law and human rights, must be held accountable for their actions. Punishment is not an option. Any war crimes must be investigated, and those responsible must be held accountable. The OSSE and the international community need to continue their commitment to a peaceful solution negotiated between the parties. As a permanent member of the OSSE Minsk Group and as Chairman of the OSSE in 2021, Sweden will continue to support the efforts of the Minsk Co-Chairman. As Chairman of the OSCE, I, too, will personally have a representative for the conflict to support this work. Promoting dialogue and cooperation for a long-term, politically sustainable solution to the conflict is a guide to my actions as Sweden's Minister for Foreign Affairs.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-312	Madam President, I would like Sanctions are out of the question. The Foreign Minister implicitly says what she usually does: we should be able to talk to everyone, even with regimes whose views we do not appreciate. However, this is breaking open doors. Who opposes foreign policy dialogue? Who opposes diplomatic talks? It is obvious that we should hold talks and be in dialogues around the world. We will talk to Turkey and other countries. But when human dignity, human rights and international law are at stake, we must not shrink back. In fact, when fundamental values are threatened, we have a duty to raise our voices and act, and that is really what this debate is about. Madam President, I would like At the beginning of October, Armenia's Prime Minister warned of Azerbaijani abuses and violations of international law in the ongoing war. There is no doubt that what is happening is aimed at continuing the genocide of Armenians and re-establishing the Turkish Empire, was the message. What the Prime Minister was referring to was the more than 1 million Armenians and Assyrians/Syrians who were murdered and maimed from 1915 onwards by the then Turkish military forces. This genocide, seyfo, is still an open wound. The deep sorrow of loved ones who fell victim and the fear that history will be repeated are in every respect present and tangible – as tangible as Turkey's refusal to acknowledge its guilt and distance itself from the historical abuses and as tangible as today's harassment of the Armenian minority in Turkey. Nagorno-Karabakh in a way symbolizes the history of the Armenian people. There are the symbols, the ancient churches and monasteries that almost every Armenian knows. There the first Armenian school was opened in the 500's. Madam President, I would like Anyone who does not see this conflict and the parties' actions in the historical perspective misses an essential dimension. The agreement between Armenia and Azerbaijan has led to a ceasefire, but the fundamental conflict has deep roots. Today, Turkey is waging war by proxy. Already on the first day of the war, on 27 September, the Turkish Foreign Minister declared that Turkey is in unwavering solidarity with Azerbaijan. Democratic Armenia, he described as the biggest security threat in the region. So why, Ann Linde, don't put pressure on the long-lost and destabilising party? Why even suggest that Turkey, with a regime that refuses to recognise the genocide, should be able to become a member of the European Union?
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-318	Madam President, I would like The government takes seriously Turkey's actions in its neighbourhood and that Turkey is moving further and further away from the EU. On the part of Sweden and the European Union, we need to continue to work to ensure that Turkey does not move further in this direction. Our approach to Turkey needs to be long-term. I am pleased that Lars Adaktusson obviously agrees that we need to be able to have a dialogue with Turkey on developments and also to cooperate in strategic areas. The EU has taken a number of measures in response to Turkey's actions in the neighbourhood. This applies not least to Turkey's military offensive in north-east Syria in October 2019. Both we and the European Union have condemned this, because it is contrary to international law. From the Swedish side, we have stressed the importance of protecting the Kurdish group of minorities in the area, such as Assyrians/Syrians and Yazidians. As I have mentioned, the EU has adopted a sanction regime against Turkey in view of Turkey's illegal drilling activities in the eastern Mediterranean. The EU has also suspended negotiations on an air transport agreement and negotiations in the Association Council. The EU needs to continue to mark against Turkey whenever it is called for. This also applies to the negative developments in human rights and democracy, which we regularly discuss with Turkish representatives. We support civil society and other change actors in Turkey through bilateral support. We are aware of the vulnerable situation of minorities in Turkey, and we have supported projects that promote dialogue and coexistence, as well as support for trials for opposition politicians and human rights defenders. With regard to the mass assaults that occurred in 1915, when 1 million people are estimated to have been victims, there are accounts of a merciless cruelty. Questions about how the government should deal with these mass assaults are complex, as Lars Adaktusson knows, and contain international law, constitutional, criminal law and political aspects that cannot be ignored. But we all have a responsibility to learn from our history, as Lars Adaktusson points out. The government has supported several projects promoting knowledge and dialogue in terms of mass abuse in 1915. Of course, I also raised this issue in my meeting with the Turkish Foreign Minister.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-326	Madam President, I would like Ann Linde is the incoming Chairman of the OSSE, and I think that everyone understands that she is choosing her words on a sensitive issue such as this. At the same time, I must say that Turkey's violation of international law must also be brought to light by Sweden. This is about thousands of innocent Armenians who have been beaten to pieces and forced to flee areas where they have lived and cultivated the land for generations. Then we must act – these opportunities must not be restricted by a temporary Presidency. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, Nagorno-Karabakh has long been isolated from the outside world. The EU lacks representation in the region. No official visits are carried out, and this is in fact solely for the sake of the highly heated rhetoric and directly threatening actions of the Azerbaijani dictatorship. I myself have visited Nagorno-Karabakh and I note that, with the support of Armenia, the inhabitants there are doing their best to build a democratic society with functioning institutions, despite the isolation and constant threats from Azerbaijan. It is clear, in the end, that there is a need for a substantial increase in the involvement of the OSSE and, above all, of the EU in assisting the Armenians and Nagorno-Karabakh. In the context of the Eastern Partnership, work on peaceful development must be stepped up in parallel with the involvement of the population and the minimising of Turkey's influence. On this I hope we agree, Ann Linde. Thank you for the debate.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-330	Madam President, I would like As I said, we welcome the ceasefire between Armenia and Azerbaijan, which entered into force on 10 November. So far, it seems to be holding. Sweden will continue to encourage all regional actors to avoid acts that risk jeopardising the ceasefire. The most important thing now is that the fighting should not resume and that the efforts for a sustainable peace can continue so that people living in the region can come closer to reconciliation. As Chairman of the OSSE, Sweden will continue to support these efforts. We will maintain our close contacts with the Minsk Group co-chairs and other actors. I share the interpellier's concern about Turkey's actions in its immediate vicinity. The government will continue to be clear in its criticism when it is called for. We will continue to be involved in the situation of opposition politicians, civil society actors, minorities and other vulnerable groups. In our contacts with Turkey, the government will continue to demand respect for international law and human rights. Sweden will continue to work to ensure that the EU makes appropriate use of the tools at its disposal. The government believes that it is through dialogue, including clear criticism, that the EU can best influence Turkey.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-335	Madam President, I would like Pål Jonson has asked me if I can explain the wording of the total defence bill that Sweden is not part of any military alliance now also constitutes the government's security policy line. Jonson has also asked how I intend to inform the Swedish authorities, and especially the Swedish embassies abroad, about the new wording. Finally, Mr Jonson has asked me whether I believe that Sweden's security policy line should be anchored and negotiated with Parliament's parties. Sweden's security policy line, as expressed in the Government Declaration and in the Government's foreign policy declaration to the Riksdag, remains unchanged. The fact that the government in the Bill Totalförsvaret 2021 – 2025 states that Sweden is not in any military alliance means no change in relation to the current defence decision period. The same wording can also be found in the bill 2014/ 15:109 Defence Policy Focus – Sweden's Defence 2016– 2020. Let me be clear: the military freedom of alliance serves Sweden well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. It requires an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy combined with enhanced defence cooperation, especially with Finland, and a credible national defence capability. This is not a political direction that this government is going to change. The military defence appropriations will increase by approximately 45 percent during the period 2021-2025. This is the biggest increase in 70 years. Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or attack affects another country in the Nordic countries or in the EU. We expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. We should therefore be able to provide and receive support, both civilian and military. Information about the total defence bill has been provided in the customary manner and in accordance with the procedures available within the Government Offices, including our Swedish foreign authorities. In an uncertain environment, a broad consensus on Swedish foreign and security policy is a strength. The international analyses and security policy assessments made by the Defence Committee are of great importance not only for military defence but also for security policy as a whole. The work of the defence committee has a broad political base and thus constitutes an important basis for the development of defence and security policy.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-343	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the answer to my interpellation! On 15 December, the House shall decide on a new defence decision. It is actually the end of a journey that began three years ago, when the Minister of Defence commissioned the Defence Committee to develop a new basis for a future defence decision. After all, the defence committee is the government's body in consultation with the opposition to formulate the long-term defence and security policy. Therefore, it is important to protect the Swedish Defence Committee, both in form and in content, if you want to find broad solutions in the Swedish parliament. The political agreements entered into in the Defence Committee must of course also be honed and adopted by the government if the Defence Committee really is to have a value as a forum for finding broad solutions. Madam President, I would like I think there were many who appreciated Ann Linde's first appearance at Folk och Försvar in Sälen 2019, where she clearly declared and supported the Swedish Defence Committee's analysis that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Her predecessor did not do so, which created a rift between the parties in Parliament about the level of threat to which Sweden is exposed, which is fundamentally very serious. But if I was positively surprised by Ann Linde's appearance in Sälen, unfortunately I cannot say the same thing about the answer to the interpellation, because I see it as contradictory. On the one hand, Madam President, the defence bill, which covers 181 pages, mentions the freedom of military alliance once. But it is in fact in reference to Finland's security policy line, not to the Swedish security policy line. It just says that Sweden is not a member of any military alliance. But in Ann Linde's answer, she says, let me be clear: the military freedom of alliance serves Sweden well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I feel that there are two problems with that wording, both in substance and in content. Firstly, the security policy line has not been negotiated either in the Defence Committee or between the parties of the Riksdag. I would also like to remind you that the line taken by the Alliance Government over seven years was actually negotiated in the Defence Committee. It was the 2007 Defence Committee that introduced the Swedish Declaration of Solidarity. Secondly, Madam President, there is no consensus on the substance that military alliance freedom serves us well. On the contrary, our assessment is that the military freedom of alliance does not serve Sweden well, as it creates more uncertainty than security about Sweden's actions, especially in the event of increased preparedness and extreme war. We are not alone in this, Madam President. The Government's Security Policy Investigator Krister Bringéus wrote in his foreign security policy analysis on behalf of the Government that the most tangible military effect of a Swedish NATO membership would be that the uncertainty that exists today about a common conduct in the Baltic Sea and how it would be removed and the overall military capability of the West would increase. In pure Swedish: If Sweden joined NATO, security and stability in the immediate area would increase, not decrease, and that is exactly the opposite of the government's security policy line. Finally, I would like to put a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, whom I consider to be important in principle. In the answer it says that the Swedish Defence Policy Committee's documentation is an important contribution to the design of the overall security policy line in Sweden. I wonder, then, whether the government does not feel bound by the agreements made in the Defence Committee between the eight parties actually sitting and negotiating there. I believe that the answer to the question of how deep the government's intention to find broad solutions in the field of security and defence policy is will be interpreted by us.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-351	Madam President, I would like As I stated at the outset, and unlike what Pål Jonson claims, the wording which Pål Jonson refers to does not imply a change in relation to the current period of defence. Also in the specialization bill for 2016 – 2019 it says: a threat to peace and security is best avoided in community and collaboration with other countries and organisations. Sweden is not part of any military alliance. ..................................................... The fact that the government in the present total defence bill once again states that Sweden is not part of any military alliance means nothing new. This is also underlined by the sentence that precedes this observation, which reads: Thus, no change to the Swedish security policy line can be seen from the bill. The interpellant's interpretation that there is a clear wind edge ring in the line is not correct. I would like to reiterate that it is a good Swedish tradition that decisions on the security and defence policy direction for the next five years can be adopted with broad support in this House. At the same time, it is no secret that, in the context of the security debate, there are different views on certain issues among the parliamentary parties, not least on the question of NATO membership, which we have just heard Pål Jonson raise. Nevertheless, in the Defence Committee and in other contexts, we have been able to gather around the main direction in Sweden's security and defence policy across block borders. This is a strength for Sweden.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-355	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. That led to the answer to the interpellation. Even I understand, of course, that the security policy line is clearly fixed and that we should not read too much into the line that I am interpreting, however, is reflected in the defence orientation proposal. There is, of course, a difference between simply stating that we do not belong to a military alliance and raising military alliance freedom to our own value and a virtue, which I think is being done in the government's security policy line when it is said that the freedom of alliance serves us well. But, as I said, I understand the message in this and that the government has a specific view. Two weeks ago journalist Eva Stenberg wrote in Dagens Nyheter that the last illusion of Sweden's freedom of alliance falls with the forthcoming defence decision. I think it is a very accurate description of the retreat of military alliance freedom in Swedish security policy. In many respects, the defence decision is the nail in the coffin of military alliance freedom as a credible war suspension, security policy arrangement in the event of a crisis or conflict in our neighbourhood. Basically, all this is about military alliance freedom no longer being dimensional in the design of our defence. Nor is it defining for our security policy direction. I therefore believe that it is not possible to say that the military freedom of alliance serves us well either. Let me take a few examples from the bill that can illustrate what I describe as contradictory in terms of military alliance freedom and what the government actually does in practice. First of all, the defence bill states that Sweden should have the ability to survive in a crisis or conflict for up to three months. After that, we expect help from someone, and this someone is, of course, NATO countries. The support can only come from the west. Secondly, the government has now decided to place the new organisational units or new regiments in Sollefteå, Östersund, Falun and Kristinehamn, based on where support can be obtained from other countries, i.e. to promote support from the west to the east. Thirdly, we are now saying that we should coordinate our defence planning with other NATO countries. That is to say, of course, we should have parallel defence planning, but we are going into much deeper military cooperation with NATO. Madam President, I would like I support all these initiatives and think they are good for Swedish security. But I find it contradictory when the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that military alliance freedom serves us well when we do in practice a lot of things that distance us rather from military alliance freedom. Fourthly, the government also says that if a Nordic country is attacked, the other Nordic countries will be affected and likely to be drawn into a conflict. This is the Nordic community of security policy destiny. However, if we accept that thesis, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, we should ask ourselves why we do not have a common defence, common defence obligations or a defence alliance. It is precisely here that the limitation of military alliance freedom is made clear, because all the measures that I was voicing linked to cooperation with other countries are not based on common defence obligations. This means, for example, that we cannot fully deepen cooperation with Norway, Denmark and other NATO countries so that we are part of a common defence planning. Finally, I will address another investigator, Ambassador Tomas Bertelman. He pointed out the problem that we are now so close to NATO that we are almost perceived as a NATO member but that we do not enjoy the benefits that NATO membership would bring by obtaining defence guarantees and being part of a common defence planning. I would be grateful if I could have the Foreign Minister's comment on the government's investigators on these issues.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-367	Madam President, I would like The Swedish security policy line is not only well known but also respected in our surrounding world. The military freedom of alliance and the Swedish security policy line are not changed in a quick turn. Sweden's security policy aims to guarantee our country's independence and independence, safeguard sovereignty, protect Sweden's interests and fundamental values and ensure that we have freedom of action in the face of political, military or other pressure. For the government, it is important that Sweden contributes to stability, relaxation and predictability. Changing Swedish security policy doctrine would have a direct effect on our security policy situation in our part of the world and in Europe. This would help to increase tensions in our neighbourhood. Therefore, the government has been very clear that there is no need for a sharp caste in Swedish security policy. International developments are increasingly demanding an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy. It is a policy based on cohesion in the EU and on cooperation on a broad front, both in the Nordic region and the Baltic Sea region, as well as within the UN, the OSSE and the partnership with NATO. A strong transatlantic link is important both for European and for global security. In addition, defence policy must continue to develop with enhanced overall defence and enhanced bilateral and multilateral defence cooperation. International defence cooperation helps to enhance the capacity of national defence and the ability to act with others, which is an important objective of security policy. As I mentioned earlier, the information on the total defence bill, which is compiled by the Ministry of Defence, has been shared with all our foreign authorities. I would like to return to what Pål Jonson said about the fact that the threats to peace and our security are best avoided jointly and in cooperation with other countries. We have no different opinion on that. It is in Swedish interest to strengthen solidarity and integration within the EU, to maintain peace, stability and predictability in our neighbourhood and to anchor this in European and Euro-Atlantic structures. It is not possible to see military conflicts in Sweden's neighbourhood that would affect only one country. Sweden therefore has a solidarity policy. This policy of security still serves our country well, and the government will not change it. Our security policy should have a broad parliamentary base and be characterised by long-term and predictability, not by abrupt caste.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-375	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Foreign Affairs says that Swedish military alliance freedom attracts respect and is appreciated in our neighbourhood. I believe that Swedish NATO membership would also be positively perceived by, for example, the Baltic countries, but also by, for example, Norway, Denmark and Germany. It would give us new opportunities to integrate our defence cooperation much deeper than today if we had not only peacetime cooperation but even common defence obligations. Let me return to the basis of my interpellation, namely Sweden's security policy line. The very purpose of such a line is to declare to countries in the immediate region what intentions we have with security policy in peacetime but also how we intend to act in the event of increased preparedness and war. My view is therefore that we need a deep and thorough discussion of our security policy line, including the freedom of military alliance and our relationship with NATO. Madam President, I would like Such a discussion must not be locked up in any form of foreign policy identity policy or in historical reference frameworks, but must be based on a serious analysis of our military geography in northern Europe, the realities that this entails and the interests that we have to manage in the light of this. In fact, this is where the Försvarsproposition leads things forward. It is clear-sighted in the analysis that we are all part of a common military geography. However, such an analysis must also take into account the deteriorating security policy situation: Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea, its attacks on Ukraine and Georgia, its low threshold for military use of force, its aggressive practice patterns in the neighbourhood and its hybrid warfare. This is also important for Sweden's security policy line, which is why, in my opinion, it should be developed to include a Swedish NATO membership. I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the debate.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-381	Madam President, I would like I said at the outset that the Swedish security policy line is well known and respected in our surrounding world. In September, I had a meeting with NATO's highest political body, the North Atlantic Council. It was a hours-long meeting with a lot of questions. I then received a receipt of our appreciation for our security policy and our role in the neighbourhood. This is particularly true of the armaments of the defence sector in the years to come. The fact that cooperation in security and defence policy with many of our neighbours continues to deepen also shows that we are seen as a valuable and reliable partner of those with whom we work. The Government naturally strives for a broad anchoring of security and defence policy, of course in relation to the Riksdag but also in relation to the Swedish public. It is also important for our security policy line that it is consistent and predictable, even in relation to our environment. That is why the government is following a consistent policy of security and avoids sharp throws. The fact that the security policy line has been expressed equally over a period of years in both the government declaration and the foreign declaration contributes to this. I thank Pål Jonson for raising this important issue for a debate.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-385	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren has asked me what initiatives Sweden has taken to push forward in the EU for us to coordinate and, together with other democracies in good time before 6 December, makes it clear that the planned elections in Venezuela are not in a position to become legitimate. Kerstin Lundgren has also asked me whether I and the government can make it clear that Sweden will not see a parliamentary elections in Venezuela under the current conditions as either free or fair. The Venezuelan regime has systematically undermined democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. In addition, the social and humanitarian situation in the country continues to worsen. It is with dismay that we note the regime's unwillingness to accept the opposition's demands for democratic conditions for the conduct of the elections. Opposition politicians continue to be threatened, persecuted and imprisoned. Under the circumstances, the government does not regard the planned parliamentary elections in Venezuela on 6 December as either free or fair. In this way, under the current conditions, Sweden will also not be able to recognise the new Parliament, which will take office in January 2021 when the current democratically elected Parliament's mandate ends. Sweden is actively working through both the EU and the International Contact Group for Venezuela, the ICG, to support a negotiated political solution to the crisis and improve the humanitarian situation in the country. The EU has tried on several occasions to persuade the regime to accept the opposition's demands for free and fair elections, but the attempts so far have not been successful. Both the EU and the international contact group for Venezuela have been clear that there are currently no conditions for the conduct of free and fair parliamentary elections. The government is convinced that dialogue and negotiation are the only way forward for a sustainable solution to the political, economic and social crisis in Venezuela. In all multilateral contexts where Venezuela is being discussed, Sweden stresses the importance of the international community doing its utmost to support a political solution. In addition, we pay particular attention to the difficult humanitarian situation in the country and continue to work actively to reduce the suffering of the Venezuelan people.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-390	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer to my questions. Sweden stands up for democracy and wants to be a voice for democracy and human rights in foreign policy. At a time when human rights are being suppressed, when people are being hard hit by freedom and when democracy becomes a potemkinculiss for that very oppression, it is important that we are clear – and that we are premature. We have seen how one leader after another seeks to play democracy. Before starting that game, or the drama, it is extremely important that we become a clear voice from the Swedish side but also from the European Union. We need to be clear that this is not what we mean by democracy. I have recently learned that many people in African countries are distrusting democracy because democracy is being dragged into the dirt by actions of the kind that we are now seeing in Venezuela. We need to be a clear voice for this fake business to reveal. Maduro was chosen unfree. He's not a legitimate president. Now we are in a situation where he has created an illegitimate constitutional assembly that legislates and gives him a mandate. This autumn he has been given a mandate to get his hands on virtually everything in Venezuela. The way he sees it, he can make it legal. What is going on in Venezuela is that further years are added to decades of oppression and mismanagement that hit the Venezuelan people hard. We are now in a situation where Venezuela lacks a legitimate president and will miss a legitimate parliament. Then, Madam President, you have to ask yourself who to talk to, if you are going to have further talks in the contact group. Don't you have to take a move to secure another development? Is it not necessary to add new methods and make them clear in advance? It is important that the Venezuelan people, who have fought and who are fighting – many are also fleeing oppression – see that it is not only Maduro who is acting. It will be an impossible situation if we are to hold talks with an illegitimate President and an illegitimate leadership of a future so-called parliament and, furthermore, the other voices are in prison. It is a model that Lukasjenko in Belarus would like to use. We must not allow this to continue. We must take a look. Madam President, I would like I wonder, of course, whether the Foreign Minister can be clear in expressing support for Guaidó as the voice with which we are going to hold talks and try to strengthen as part of the democratic hope that we can see for the Venezuelan people.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-397	Madam President, I would like I broadly agree with everything that Kerstin Lundgren says. The government is very concerned about the political, economic and humanitarian crisis in Venezuela. It is caused by the continued mismanagement of the regime. It undermines democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. I would like to emphasise that there is a great deal of unity between the European Union, the international contact group for Venezuela and the so-called Lima Group. It is about the fact that there are no preconditions for there to be a free choice on 6 December. We have said this publicly in various statements. There is a great consensus that the new Parliament cannot be recognised. The Maduro regime continues to undermine the principles of the rule of law, respect for human rights and democracy. They have security forces that imprison people, use violence against dissidents and force opposition politicians into exile. There have been no credible indications whatsoever that it intends to meet the demands of the outside world and the opposition for free elections. The human rights situation is very worrying. This is clear from a report released by the UN's independent mission to Venezuela. On 17 September this year, the day after the UN report was released, the International Contact Group and Sweden published a declaration expressing strong concern about these tasks and giving their full support to the UN mission, as well as to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights in Venezuela. There are, of course, calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners. We were also co-sponsors of the Lima Group resolution in the UN Human Rights Council, where we extended the independent UN mission by two years. I was asked why we do not recognise Juan Guaidó. I've spoken to him personally. The government's position is that we do not recognise governments but states. This is in line with international law, and Sweden has a very long practice of doing so. We support the opposition's efforts to organise free and fair elections, restore democracy, establish the rule of law and establish respect for human rights. Although the Maduro regime has an unwillingness to negotiate, we are convinced that a negotiated solution must be found if a sustainable solution is to be found in Venezuela. Therefore, Sweden will continue to take initiatives with organisations that support bridge building activities so that there will still be a dialogue between the parties. At the same time, we express criticism and continue to uphold respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law in all the contexts in which Venezuela is being discussed.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-403	Madam President, I would like We do not recognise governments, we recognise states. However, when dealing with illegitimous leaderships, we must ensure that this does not give support and legitimacy to oppressors and dictators, such as Maduro, by the back door. It is, of course, important to express support. I am not talking about admitting Guaidó. I am talking about expressing support. Guaidó is the only representative of the only legitimately recognised parliament in Venezuela. It must be clear that, if you take the initiative, you must take the initiative to express support for the only one who has that vote to represent a fair and free election in Venezuela in terms of both presidential and future parliamentary positions. It is a time to come when we can see that perhaps the whole old Parliament will be imprisoned or oppressed and threatened. Madam President, I would like The report referred to by the Minister for Foreign Affairs is extremely clear. Unheard of crimes have been committed against human rights. It has been done by the government, state structures and groups working with them. They have committed tremendous crimes in many areas. Madam President, I would like Freedom of punishment must not prevail. It is, of course, good to extend the mandate by two years. But it would also be good if the ICC were given the task of testing the crimes committed. It is clear that it is not possible to do so in Venezuela, because the judicial system in Venezuela is Maduro. It would be welcome if the government could also take the initiative to hand over the report and ensure that there is a legal process in the ICC on this. I wonder if the Secretary of State is prepared to do so. The question is how we relate to the contact group. The Secretary of State says she wants negotiations. But negotiations can never take place on the terms of the illegitimate and by leading the process. We have seen how it has worked in Syria. We see it in Belarus. We have seen it in so many countries. Then you have to find other ways to get there. It is about the people who have fought and fought for their survival in this terrible situation. I have information that 90% is basically below the poverty line. It is an incredibly difficult humanitarian situation. Madam President, I would like If resources are involved in this situation, when Maduro considers everything to be his resources, the risk is that the dictatorship will be fattened. It must be extremely clear that the humanitarian efforts that are being made are not being taken care of by Mr Maduro and his oppressors, those who have committed enormous crimes against humanity. Then you give them a wrong answer.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-411	Madam President, I would like Let me begin where Kerstin Lundgren ends with the humanitarian crisis. It's very disturbing. Even before the pandemic came, health care had collapsed. Over five million people were forced to leave the country. The economy is beaten to pieces because of the lack of basic necessities such as medicine, basic goods, running water and electricity. These are terrible conditions for large sections of the population. It's a huge inflation. Last year, over 7 million people were in need of humanitarian aid. It is therefore important as Kerstin Lundgren says that such support should be channelled in such a way that it does not support the regime but goes to the people. Therefore, Sweden's support goes through UN organisations such as UNHCR, UNICEF and WHO as well as the Red Cross movement and various international humanitarian organisations. The EU is very deeply committed to the response to the humanitarian crisis and has contributed over EUR 156 million in humanitarian aid. Of course, refugees in neighbouring countries are also supported. We are constantly highlighting these issues in order to try to mobilise support. By 10 September this year, Sweden hosted a donor meeting with the largest donor countries to obtain more support for the Venezuelan people. As regards the ICC, the ICC has an investigation that has been ongoing since 2018 against the Venezuelan regime. How the ICC chooses to proceed after the preliminary investigation is a decision s if the ICC's prosecutor takes completely independently. We protect the independence and integrity of the Court of Justice. We have also been active together with international actors to get a dialogue process that works in broad international unity. On two occasions Sweden has been a host. There have been major international actors and constructive dialogue, but we must continue with it next year. Despite the suspension of the Norwegian-led negotiations last autumn, we are still continuing on the Norwegian initiative. We are convinced that the only viable solution is a negotiated political solution for long-term peace in Venezuela.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-418	Madam President, I would like The UN is working on the mandates of its Member States. The UN is working in Venezuela with the mandate allowed by Maduro. You have to see that, too. This applies regardless of the organization. It is important not to give the Maduro regime resources by the back door so that it becomes the donor of the good gift and secures the survival of its own henchmen while the people are suffering. Then we'll hurt worse. I hope that the government can be prepared to act also with respect for the integrity of the ICC and that the court will of course make its own decisions. It is not entirely impossible for the government to submit the report and point to the report. It is a clear signal that we take seriously the UN review report that came in September and also make this visible to others. Madam President, I would like We often have a conversation about MRs and sanctions against people who commit serious human rights violations. We are on the way with a Magnitsky legislation in Europe. We wish we had it in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Pending court proceedings, is the government prepared to raise the issue of smart sanctions against the people who are designated as those who have committed crimes against humanity? There's a clear list. Is the government prepared to impose sanctions on those people? Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the debate.
i-a7ad7ba3388d921e-422	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the debate. It is important that we raise the issue of Venezuela in Parliament's Chamber. We have very limited bilateral relations with Venezuela from Sweden. But that does not mean that we are in any way indifferent. We are very active in trying to find a peaceful solution. The work of the EU and the International Contact Group is particularly important in terms of the democratic space in Venezuela, which is decreasing. These are countries from both Europe and Latin America in the group. This enables a broad consensus to be reached. During the crisis, several international mediation efforts have been made. Among other things, Norway has led a process between the parties, but as I said, it was suspended in August because the regime left the negotiating table. Nevertheless, we continue to give full support to Norway. As regards sanctions, the EU's restrictive measures were introduced in November 2017. They included, on the one hand, an embargo on arms sales and the sale of other materials which could be used for repressive purposes, and, on the other hand, targeted restrictive measures in the form of asset freezes and travel bans on a number of individuals who have been linked to the undermining of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. The sanctions are designed so as not to jeopardise the humanitarian and economic situation of the Venezuelan population. It is, of course, for the sake of its freedom, its right to live in a free country, that we all hope for a change in Venezuela.
