i-c48c6172075a1d2b-1	Madam President, I would like In an international comparison, the Swedish housing market is unlike any other. We have a rental market which, since it emerged in its present form, has been highly regulated in its entirety. In most other countries where rental housing is available, there is a largely free market. It is only housing that has been reserved for social purposes that has similar regulations. In those countries, you can usually buy an apartment as property, just as we are today buying and selling detached houses and villas. Instead, if you rent yourself, you can agree with the host you rent off on the terms. The right of residence has an almost 100-year history. The first law to regulate this cooperative ownership was adopted in the 1930s. The form of association continues to exist today, and as with the rental right, there are few similar examples in the outside world. There you either own your apartment or rent it privately. Thirty years ago, the right-of-occupancy situation changed radically. The lack of rental rights combined with higher income for households and the loss of interest in the rental right led to more actors than the old ones, HSB and Riksbyggen, coming onto the market. Provided that you have access to cash and are allowed to borrow, the right-of-occupancy property is an opportunity for most people to enter the owned market. As well as choosing to live in a rental apartment, you can choose to buy a right-of-occupancy apartment. Unlike in the rental market, there is a wide variation in the purchase price and fee of the tenant-owners. Even so, few complain, since they have paid exactly the price that the dwelling was worth at the time of purchase. We have here a completely unregulated housing market that is not called into question, either politically or by some powerful association of interests. It's amazing, and it's welcome. However, when it has been produced for a long time too few rental apartments, we see that more residential apartments are quickly being fully subscribed, even when the pile cranes are in place. The Swedish National Audit Office's report, which is answered in the Government's letter, shows what we have warned about: that the early signing of an advance agreement can cause problems for the buyer if the conditions change along the journey, for example that the time needed to complete the dwelling is extended. Many times a delay may be due to factors that the developer could not predict either. There are therefore two parties who have taken a risk here. Nevertheless, protection is needed in that part. We agree with the committee's proposal for a notice to strengthen consumer protection in the event of delays in newly produced tenant-ownerships and to clarify liability for real estate agents and others. The Swedish National Audit Office also highlights the private economic risks buyers take as a reason to increase consumer protection and compare with the financial markets. They highlight the difficulties in gaining insight into and assessing what is a sustainable association economy. Is the property pledged? Are there other debts or a major renovation need? It is impossible to know, and it is not possible to get out of all kinds of risks. In our exercise we also describe how changes in the association's finances affect, for example when latent tax is triggered or other tax changes such as an unwelcome introduction of property tax. Even though house prices are rising today, it cannot be ignored that they may fall in the future. Everyone who buys a home must be prepared for that. I therefore have my doubts about demanding changes in the direction that the National Audit Office points out. We in the Center Party are concerned that this could affect the supply as many residential developers are not prepared to take the financial risk of starting a right-of-occupancy project. If there is a clause protecting the consumer in the event of a fall in prices, there should also be a clause which compensates for a sharp rise in prices. If there are swings, there must also be carousels. Madam President, I would like We propose the creation of a digital residence register. All information on a right-of-occupancy right of residence must be collected, such as loans and pledges. This is also what the real estate brokers are asking for, as it would facilitate their communication with the buyer. There shall be full transparency in terms of percentages and statutes of the association, financial calculations and other building technical facts that may be relevant to the member and unit-owner. Our starting point, like that of the committee, is that the government should urgently take the measures proposed by the investigation into the strengthening of consumer protection in the housing market. It has taken far too long, and it is regrettable that the committee should again have to address an announcement to the government on this. With regard to price increases, we believe that it is normal risk-taking and that it is the responsibility of banks to control the buyer's margins, to explain the meaning of a home purchase and to assess the margins available to cope with increases in the fee or changes in mortgage rates. Otherwise, we believe that it should be possible to take out private insurance policies that protect the owner of the dwelling if the selling price is significantly lower than the purchase price and any loans cannot therefore be repaid. Today, we are discussing consumer protection in the purchase of newly produced dwellings, but it should be pointed out that entry into older right-of-occupancy associations can be a much bigger problem. Unfortunately, there are association boards that exploit the weak position of residents for their own gain. As has been pointed out, we agree with the committee's call for enhanced consumer protection. We would like to stress in particular that prior agreement should be null and void in the event of delays and substantial changes in implementation and that the requirements for information from the home developer, via the construction board to the broker and future members, are tightened. In particular, we would like to stress the need for a digital right-of-occupancy register. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to support the Center Party's reservation 1 in paragraph 3. We believe that there must be a good balance between consumer interest and the incentive for the developer to offer high-quality housing at an affordable cost to the consumer. Why we think it is important is clear from our specific opinion in the report. The Center Party dislikes the rules and trusts market forces. Since I have all the speakers following me in this debate, I would like to ask you an open question about how far you are prepared to go to strengthen consumer protection and where the limit is when it might affect the supply of housing rights.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-16	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on consumer protection in the purchase of newly produced dwellings. It is gratifying that a majority in the committee agrees that the consumer protection of those who buy a newly produced right-of-occupancy apartment needs to be strengthened in a number of ways. For this reason, the committee has proposed two announcements to the government on the basis of demands made in follow-up motions, including by the Left Party. The right of residence is a unique form of tenancy with the roots of the cooperative movement – an intermediary between property ownership and tenancy. In Sweden there are around 1 million apartments divided into about 25 000 active right-of-occupancy associations. A large proportion of new production is made up of dwellings. For many, the right-of-occupancy is a good alternative to rental, ownership and cooperative rental. The right of residence is an important form of tenure in the Swedish housing market, and it covers a large proportion of Sweden's households. It should be safe to live and invest in right-of-occupancy apartments. There is therefore a need for good legal protection both for right-holders and for those who intend to buy a right-of-occupancy apartment, especially in view of the fact that the purchase of a right-of-occupancy apartment often has a huge economic impact on a private individual. Madam President, I would like Today there are major shortcomings in consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market. This applies both to existing right-of-occupancy holders and to new buyers of a right-of-occupancy apartment. The issue has recently been investigated by a government inquiry. In its report, the study on the strengthening of consumer protection in the housing market made a number of proposals aimed at improving consumer protection. Unfortunately, the proposals have not yet led to any action by the government. Part of the right-of-occupancy market where consumer protection is particularly weak is in the purchase of newly produced dwellings. Buyers of a newly produced right-of-occupancy property currently enjoy considerably less protection than consumers in other markets. The buyer's position is weak while there are significant risks. For example, it is difficult for buyers of newly produced dwellings to demand that errors are remedied and to assert their rights in case of delays. In addition, buyers do not receive sufficient information on risks or the consumer protection that consumer-oriented supervision, for example, provides in other markets. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office has examined whether the Government and the relevant authorities have done enough to ensure that buyers' interests are protected when purchasing newly produced residential apartments. The overall conclusion of the Swedish National Audit Office is that the Government has not done enough in this regard. The Left Party shares the Swedish National Auditor's conclusion. Madam President, I would like According to the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation, the Government should review the provisions of the Right-of-occupancy Act and other relevant regulations to ensure that buyers of newly produced right-of-occupancy housing are subject to effective consumer protection, in line with other consumer markets. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the protection should mean that the trader has a responsibility for the delivery of the goods to the buyer. The Government states in its letter that it welcomes the Swedish National Audit Office's review and agrees with the overall observations. The Left Party welcomes the fact that a review of the Right-of-occupancy Act is under way within the Government Office on the basis of the proposals. We also welcome the fact that the Government shares the Swedish National Audit Office's observations and that it now intends to produce additional evaluation documents that address the shortcomings identified in the Swedish National Audit Office's review. At the same time, the Left Party notes that the issue has been prepared within the Government Office for a long time, while the shortcomings in consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market remain. It is now high time for the government to present legislative proposals that strengthen consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market. In this context, the Left Party would like to point out that the Riksdag has recently issued an announcement to the Government that the Government should return with proposals to strengthen consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market. The government should heed the announcement of the Riksdag and speed up the process. Madam President, I would like The government should urgently – I cannot stress it enough – carry out a review of the provisions of the Right-of-occupancy Act and other relevant regulations in accordance with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations and return with legislative proposals that strengthen consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market. Let me conclude, Madam President, by saying this: it should be safe to live and invest in condos. I share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment and have therefore supported the committee's proposal for announcements on improved information to buyers of newly produced residential properties and clarified responsibility for, among others, property owners and real estate agents. According to the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation to the Government, a review of the right-of-occupancy legislation should also take into account the need to limit the buyer's private financial risk after signing the prior agreement and the need for rules that define what constitutes a sustainable economy in a building-mastered housing-right association. I believe that the Government should urgently carry out a review of the Right-of-occupancy Act and other relevant regulations. Madam President, I would like I call for approval of the Left Party's reservation 2.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-27	Madam President, I would like The purchase of a dwelling is probably the largest business you make as a private person. Finding the right right apartment, which is in the right place, has the right size and is within a reasonable cost, probably makes us feel eager to get things straight in a way that sometimes makes us not realize the risks we face. These are risks that we should perhaps realise. Buying a right-of-occupancy apartment means that together with other people you get financial responsibility for an association. What do the debts look like in the association? Who are they with whom this Union is included? In a brand new right-of-occupancy apartment, maintenance may not be the first thing to think about, but the management of the association affects the right-of-occupancy holder. Over the last five years, 104 000 newly produced dwellings have been sold. Although prices for a newly produced right-of-occupancy apartment are usually lower, the average price of all dwellings sold in recent years has been SEK 2.7 million. So we are talking about multimillion-dollar transactions for hundreds of thousands of households. Nevertheless, large parts of consumer protection in the purchase of a newly produced right-of-occupancy apartment have been weaker than in other consumer markets. In the media we have been able to read about buyers who have signed pre-contractual contracts where the conditions for the purchase have changed so significantly that the buyer has wanted to withdraw, lose large amounts of money or take up a right-of-occupancy apartment that differed in design and quality from what has been promised. Such a large deal made in advance requires the buyer to have as good knowledge and transparency as possible before and during the purchase process. In practice, it is the home developer who controls the right-of-occupancy association and the exact design until the buyer is admitted as a member of the association. This creates an imbalance between the parties about what one knows and can influence. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed consumer protection when purchasing newly produced residential apartments, which gives us the opportunity to act today. The Swedish National Audit Office has clear views in its review and believes that the government should act on them. There is a lack of basic protection compared to other consumer markets. The builder may affect essential parts of the final production that affect future members. The information on the risks of purchases is poor. The government has not done enough to improve consumer protection. The Government says that the conditions that the Swedish National Audit Office points out have also been highlighted by the Government. So far, so good. Unfortunately, however, the government's ability to act does not go beyond a finding. Nothing more is happening in this matter. Last spring, Parliament announced to the government that it should come back with proposals to strengthen consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market. It is a discussion that has already created debate in the past. There is a completed report from 2017, Strengthened consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market, which could very well be used as a basis for a bill. We can now conclude that the government has not done anything out of the investigation. It does not seem that the government has the same view of the need for enhanced consumer protection. That is why I am pleased that today we can address two new announcements to the government. One notice concerns pre-contractual contracts and delays that may arise and make the consumer's situation unsustainable. It should strengthen the possibility for the consumer to terminate a pre-contractual contract. The second notice is about improving information to consumers about the risks and responsibilities of the purchase. The Christian Democrats would have liked to have seen a number of more measures and, like the Swedish National Audit Office, believe that the buyer's transparency and influence over the formation of associations should be strengthened so that if possible one can be involved and make one's voice heard as a member during the construction period. The consumer will still have a lack of information and transparency about perhaps the biggest deal they make in their lives, even if the government returns on the two announcements we agree on today. We Christian Democrats believe that this is unfortunate. The government should therefore, in my opinion, come back with proposals that strengthen the buyer's transparency and influence in the association when the buyer has signed a prior agreement. This should be supported and announced to the Government by the Riksdag. It is tragic that Sweden has a lower level of consumer protection when buying a newly produced right-of-occupancy apartment than when buying a toaster. I support Amendment No 3 by the Christian Democrats.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-42	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder and I agree on the two announcements that we're going to address to the government, so I have no criticism of Larry Söder in that part. But I would like to discuss paragraph 3, where we in the Center Party have reservation No 1 and Larry Söder and the Christian Democrats have reservation No 3. We have previously listened to Momodou Malcolm Jallow, who spoke well for Left Party reservation No 2. During this point, Larry Söder and the undersigned diametrically disagree on what should be done. I take my responsibility as a housing politician and think that it is both my job and Larry Söder's job to create the best possible conditions for those housing developers who want to invest in residential apartments, rentals or other tenancy forms and give them the best possible conditions. On the other hand, we should not compromise consumer protection. Rather, we are strengthening it in the parts that we agree to do. However, Larry Söder's and the Christian Democrats' reservation is about going beyond what is stated in the report with regard to the two announcements. Momodou Malcolm Jallow, for his part, wants to review the right-of-occupancy law. Then my question to Larry Söder is: Isn't it better for Larry Söder to shake hands with Momodou Malcolm Jallow and make sure that legislation is further tightened so that we more forcefully make it difficult for tenant-owners to implement their housing projects? I see many opportunities with enhanced consumer protection. This is positive for consumers. But I also see dangers in discussing solely on the basis of that interest. We need to ensure that we have a good balance between regulatory problems and consumer protection.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-46	Madam President, I would like I agree with Ola Johansson – the two announcements we agree on do not need to spend more effort and time discussing. It is very good that we have all agreed on this. However, I see an imbalance in consumer protection. You sign a pre-contractual agreement and are stuck in it but do not have insight into how the process is done, how the association is formed and what it means in the end. There are different forces, and I think we need to strengthen the power of the consumer. The consumer should be transparent and able to influence. On the other hand, I am not saying that those who actually build and make sure that there are residential apartments should blur their things. However, I think that the person who has entered into an agreement and will live in the right-of-occupancy apartment should have more opportunity to see how it works, what opportunities there are and what qualities it will be in the home. This will strengthen consumer protection. I think that people should be allowed to enter into whatever agreements they want, as long as they have open eyes and the opportunity to influence.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-49	Madam President, I would like Freedom of contract is, of course, a foundation of a market economy. But let's bear in mind that one of the contracting parties in this case is a building-mastered housing-rights association. The home developer is an entrepreneur who takes significant financial long-term risks by entering into a housing development project. You should remember that. These are risks that can be affected by a sharp fall in prices and, of course, by an increase. There are swings and carousels in this for both the home developer and the consumer. We have two interests to guard. Larry Söder and I agree that we must create the best possible conditions for private businesses to develop housing, both rental and residential. My question to Larry Söder doesn't really answer. The reservation he has made is similar to that of the Left Party. How far is Larry Söder prepared to go to further strengthen consumer protection, without affecting the incentives of home developers to take the economic risks of embarking on a housing market where prices can go up and prices can go down, where demand can increase and demand can decrease?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-52	Madam President, I would like I have every respect for the housing developer's situation. You take a big economic risk. I am not suggesting that the consumer should in any way be given the opportunity to withdraw from the contract or that the consumer be given the opportunity to say: a fall in prices is coming, so I will have my money back! What I am saying is that I think that the consumer should have more transparency and more opportunity to influence over time. This does not mean that the economic conditions for the home developer change. But it cannot be as if you go in and order a toaster, but suddenly you get a sun lamp, but you have to get a toaster. That's what I want. I want people who sign pre-contractual contracts in the end also to get the goods they have signed for. The only possibility you have to influence it is to be part of a right-of-occupancy association and have the opportunity to have insight and influence so that you get the apartment you originally thought of.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-54	Madam President, I would like It's great to be back here. It's almost as if you didn't know if your sign would still be there. It feels good to be standing here again. I am very happy to be here, because I have wise colleagues in the committee who have spoken before me and have explained in an exemplary way the complexity of the matter. It's a very difficult question we're dealing with. Of course we agree to the announcements. We are in favour of the proposal in the report as a whole, because we also think it is important that things happen. But it is also the case that the complexity highlighted by Ola Johansson in his opening speech is based on balancing interests. What is clear in the report from 2017 and the investigation that was done then is that all the parameters that the Swedish National Audit Office then highlighted are not included. As a result, it takes time to prepare such a question. I can welcome the fact that work is under way in this House. It's not like Larry Söder describes, that nothing is happening at all. Among other things, the issue of mortgage registers is on the way. It is very important for many reasons, not just in this context, and it is in progress. So something is happening. We have also had other problems in the right-of-occupancy segment, among other things with the hijacking of right-of-occupancy associations. That is why, after this, we will be debating the issue of minority protection, an issue which may also have a bearing on how we form associations and the like. I also think it is important to balance the question of interests. As Ola Johansson points out, there are many parties. We have the developers, but we also have the brokers. Then one has to ask: Is it always right at all times that we, as legislators, go in with the big ax and steer everything up into law? Many times it is said that it is not good. Take, for example, the advertising ombudsman. There, the industry itself should regulate, think many. In this area, however, we are going to go in with the big sledgehammer and push through a lot of legislation, although it is an extremely complex area, as has been pointed out. There are initiatives from the industry on this issue. Trygg BRF is one of those, where you notice your tenant-owner associations even when they are newly formed and give the quality stamp that here is the right thing to do. The committee has also received a letter as late as at the meeting we had today. There is a person who says that they have bought from a company and are very happy. If you just use that model, it's going great. We must also point out the construction producers, the home developers. What is their responsibility? This has arisen in a situation where it was built very much on speculation. At the time, there were entrepreneurs who went in with fortune-seeking in this, perhaps overdrafted their account somewhat, and pushed this forward. We also see that this segment has decreased. It is not sold as much on drawing now as it did before. It also has to do with the spirit of time we were in. It is a phenomenon that arises because we got a very large supply in that particular segment. Then the question is: Is this a problem that has been known for decades that has been acute? No, it's a fairly new phenomenon. I am not saying that the government would not have acted, because we are in favour of announcements. But I think it is important for us to be careful that when we go forward with legislation we legislate correctly. I am afraid that an overly pressured and forced process would mean that we would just end up in new problems. But we agree to the announcements and believe that the government should act. I am critical of the government's failure to act, absolutely. But I think you should have respect for the process. One can also think about the information that the brokers should provide. Should we have to legislate in order for brokers to provide good information to those with whom they have a business deal, i.e. their customers? Shouldn't you handle it from the real estate side? I think so. In their training, you can certainly add more about the newly produced, for example. It's not impossible. You can handle that now. There is no need to sit and wait for legislation on this. The brokering community could take a step forward here and do more. There are many more actors in this market than the Riksdag and the legislation. It is just as Ola Johansson says: How far should we go? Where are the limits? I fully share Ola Johansson's entry into the issue of some kind of loss protection. It is clear that you should have protection if it is fraudulent behaviour, just like in other financial markets and transactions, when you have cheated on someone a fund or something like that. But if you enter the right-of-occupancy market, you do it price-wise with a risk. It is not that the housing market is protected against price depression. D is Ola Johansson into something important. How far will consumer protection go? How far are we going to strangle the opportunity so we don't reduce the housing supply? I think that's a very difficult question. I don't have all the answers. The government's working on bringing them out. That's why we agree to the announcement. I think the debate is good and important. I can only confirm much of what has been said. The problem looks like it is described in many ways, with some exception to Larry Söder's perhaps somewhat rigid approach to how the government views the issue. But otherwise the debate is good, and so we are trying to move forward in this.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-71	Madam President, I would like We will not produce anything that is pressed and forced, said Ola Möller. There is complexity in this, said Ola Möller. How far should we go, said Ola Möller? The investigation was completed in 2017. Three years later, I don't think I'm under pressure. I don't think it's forced. The issue is complex. But the government must have some idea of the way forward and how to do it. Then the normal time for the government to present the parts that you think need to be changed, and then we will have to discuss in the Riksdag and decide. I am aware that, as a Christian Democrat, I am not getting my whole package through as I wish. However, the government must have an idea if it considers the issue to be sufficiently interesting and sufficiently necessary to deal with. I interpret Ola Möller as saying that perhaps this is a temporary problem. We are waiting for the future, so we do not want to put forward a proposal. If it is that I have understood Ola Möller wrong, I would like Ola Möller to be clear about that. I would also like to ask Ola Möller: what do the Social Democrats in the Civil Committee do to influence their fellow government members to bring this forward? The Social Democrats in the Civil Committee and Ola Möller and I share exactly the same view on this issue. We have an announcement indicating where we want to go. But our problem is common, that the government does not make any proposals. I want to know, what time perspective do we have? What are the boundaries? I understand that not all proposals can be put forward. However, some suggestions must still be considered necessary and put on Parliament's table in order to solve the problem.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-79	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder won't get a date from me, of course. Of course, we Social Democrats in the Committee on Civil Liberties are constantly having discussions with the government on this issue. But the challenge we are facing is that the issue is complex. We also have a reality to deal with. That reality has brought quite a few things in between. We have a pandemic going on that has delayed this. The investigation came in 2017 and ended up so that the government could perhaps start working on the 2018. Then I can only refer to Larry Söder's former colleague Stefan Attefall. He himself has said that one of the reasons why they have not come forward on the issue of rental register, which has also been debated in our area, was that time had run out. It was too hard. You didn't have time for that before the election. It is so, and Larry Söder knows it, that when products arrive late during a term of office, there will often be a delay. Then, moreover, we had a year at the beginning of this period when it was not the government's budget that was in force, which also made this type of process more difficult. Besides, there's a lot of pressure on the Justice Department. There's a lot of things that become dependent on what's going on in here. The announcement bingo that your party colleagues are dealing with, for example, in the Committee on Justice does not make it easier for the civil committee's questions to come forward. An announcement shall be given in the case in question. Unless everything is done as the Christian Democrats want, the government is slow. There you also have a responsibility in what you want to prioritise. The picture Larry Söder paints is a bit simplified perhaps even here.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-85	Madam President, I would like I would argue that the Riksdag, in its great wisdom, makes announcements when it believes it is good and necessary to tell the government what is important. Unfortunately, the government does not think the same things are important, and that is why it is drawn in the long way. There is no figure bingo on announcements in the Riksdag. I would say that we are all serious parties. You handle announcements on the basis that you think they're important things. We are in favour of these two announcements on this particular matter because it is important. We think that it has been far too long since 2017 and that the government has done nothing. We had an announcement also last spring in one of the subjects. You might think it might be a little overpowering to make another announcement. But that's because we don't see anything happening. Obviously, the Social Democrats in the Committee on Civil Liberties feel exactly the same way. My question to Ola Möller is still: in what ways do you influence the government to make proposals based on the announcements that exist? Can the other parties in any way help to push it forward? Now the complexity has had three years. Then we should somehow move forward. I think we other parties will certainly help with both arguments and meetings if it is necessary to help you convince the government that this is necessary. It's not about numbers bingo. These are hundreds of thousands of people who buy a newly produced right-of-occupancy apartment and do not have the same consumer protection as we all think they should have.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-92	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder is quite right that an announcement was made this spring. Then came a reality; we have to deal with a pandemic. You might think that the government, as Larry Söder says, will push a product forward. But this can't change any meetings in the world. Then, of course, I appreciate Larry Söder's sincere willingness to help. Both me and Larry Söder have been in talks about this with the industry, and I think we have a constructive conversation. I appreciate Larry Söder's ambitions in this. Things have happened, and things are happening. The question of pant mail is one where it starts to move. The issue of minority protection is also one such issue. The description is therefore not quite correct. In addition, the industry is self-regulating, which I appreciate and think is good. The advantage of self-regulation, if it works, is that the legislative process that is going to become less complex, and we need less intervention. This gives operators, especially the home developers, but perhaps also the brokers, greater freedom in terms of improving the functioning of the market. There are several forces in motion here, and pushing out a product, as Larry Söder says we should do, is perhaps not the best. Sometimes you get to have some ice in your stomach, too. To further reinforce the fact that we want this, of course, we agree to the announcement in this case. But take the Justice Committee, where 18 announcements have been made on the issue of weapons. Is that a priority? No, it's not. When we paralyze the Ministry of Justice, with a limited budget, with announcements after announcements that are all to be re-reported here to the Riksdag, it becomes crowded at the Ministry of Justice. And then this kind of question suffers, which is regrettable. I share Larry Söder's ambition and desire for us to have good consumer protection and a well-functioning market in this context.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-98	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs more housing. The housing queues are longer than ever before in Sweden. As recently as today, a new Sifo survey concluded that 1 per cent of the Swedish people are satisfied with the government's housing policy. 1 percent – let it sink in! We need a new housing policy in Sweden. We need more housing, but we also need order so that consumers dare to buy new homes. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the protection in the purchase of newly built tenant-owners' rights and notes that the Government is not doing enough in this area to ensure that the buyers' interests are protected. As consumers, we are used to having fundamental rights. We have basic protection. However, in the case of newly produced dwellings, the buyer is in principle unprotected. It is as my colleague Lars Beckman put it: buying a home is not like buying sausages. There's something else. This is a great and important investment for many people in Sweden, and then we on the political side are obliged to ensure that there is adequate protection for this. It is quite clear that it is missing today. In connection with the Swedish National Audit OfficeHelena presentation of its review, Lindberg directed sharp criticism of the government. She argued that legislation should be revised to ensure that consumer protection works as well when buying newly produced and newly built apartments as it does in other markets. For example, those who buy a newly built right-of-occupancy apartment have little opportunity to assert their rights in case of delays or other shortcomings. We see that there is no transparency in important decisions about the dwelling and the association. Those affected have little opportunity to demand correction, in addition to seeking to terminate the pre-contractual agreement. But we know that it risks being very costly and leading to a lengthy legal process with a risk of high court costs. The Swedish National Audit Office has made a number of recommendations, but the government still believes that what is available is enough. We also heard Ola Möller, who in his speech thought that one could agree to an announcement. But where is the leadership? In fact, I strongly respond to Ola Möller's contempt in this House for Parliament as a decision-making body when he expresses himself in this way and talks about announcement bingo and about cluttering the department with announcements. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a elected assembly in Sweden. We make decisions that we expect the government to relate to and enforce. I must say that this contempt is astounding. We think this is wrong. We believe that we must take our responsibility from the political side. That is why we in Parliament have now pushed to run over the government. We do not share the government's view. We have gathered a majority here today to endorse the two proposals for announcements which I look forward to voting in favour of later this afternoon. Now the government needs to come back. It needs to come back with proposals to strengthen consumer protection in the case of delayed right-of-occupancy projects and to ensure that buyers receive adequate and adapted information about the risks of a purchase. In addition, we want to clarify the roles and information responsibilities of brokers and home developers. We think that is reasonable. Sweden needs more housing, and we have a responsibility to ensure that order and order apply on the housing market so that more dare to buy a newly produced apartment. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-110	Madam President, I would like Today, we are discussing and debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on consumer protection when purchasing newly produced residential apartments. The Swedish National Audit Office has come up with its review of consumer protection when purchasing newly produced residential apartments. The conclusion is that the government has not done enough in this area to safeguard the interests of buyers and consumers. We know the importance of having a safe and secure housing market in Sweden today. If we do not have a sufficient review in the area of consumer policy, this will ultimately lead to fewer people interested in including purchases in this form. Confidence is important to strengthen the market for consumers. Today, people are rightly relying on good legislation on various types of purchases in Sweden, for example when buying newly produced dwellings. Of course, every private individual has a great responsibility of their own, but when we talk about private individuals, I also think it is important that consumers are more protected. They do not have the same conditions for understanding the agreements they make even if they have their responsibility for it. It is important in this context that we take it to heart that consumers rely on safe legislation in this area. We know that the trade organisation is working a lot today to secure contracts for newly produced housing that cannot be accessed at once. It is important that this work continues, together with the fact that we, the legislator, are also reviewing this. We support the committee's proposal for clarification in terms of strengthening the role of consumers in the housing market. The buyers are part of a future right-of-occupancy association. At the time when they enter into the contract, they have a limited opportunity to influence the decisions of the right-of-occupancy association and to demand corrections afterwards. This can, of course, lead to a variety of financial consequences, such as increases in fees and other costs in the right-of-occupancy association. Similarly, when pre-contractual contracts are signed, there are no requirements for consumer-friendly information, for example in the case of price reductions. The Real Estate Act is not adapted to the distribution of new production that we see today on the market. Data on contractors, conditions for construction contracts, building permits and various types of risks and delays are not included in the information field. These are major economic decisions, with major financial consequences for individuals. It is therefore important that we have a review in this area. I am pleased that a united committee is behind reviewing these issues. We agree with the proposed announcements, in which the Parliament calls on the Government to come back with proposals to strengthen consumer protection in the case of delayed right-of-occupancy contracts, to ensure that consumers receive sufficient information about risks for purchase and to clarify the roles and information responsibilities of real estate agents and home developers in the market. With those words, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-120	Madam President, I would like It is often said that the purchase of a dwelling is the biggest business in life. It's no wonder. Most often it is the most expensive investment you make, and most often the purchase of a dwelling is made before a big change in your life. You may move away from home, move in with someone, form a family, or expand it with more children, or move to less after a separation. In Sweden we have a relatively unique form of housing, the right-of-occupancy. Unlike when you buy a newly produced villa, for example, those who buy a newly produced right-of-occupancy property lack protection in consumer protection legislation. Buying a newly produced right-of-occupancy apartment also differs a great deal from our usual consumption. Often it goes quite a long time from signing a pre-contractual agreement to actually moving in. If you are also selling a dwelling to finance your new dwelling, this can lead to problems. The expected income from the sale of your current dwelling may be adversely affected by a declining market. Delayed moving in with your new dwelling may result in you standing without a dwelling if you have sold your existing dwelling and agreed with the new person moving in on the basis of the regular schedule. Normally, these problems do not arise. Serious and long-term housing operators are concerned that the end customer has good transparency and information for their purchase and throughout the construction process. The industry has even developed its own quality label, Trygg BRF, to strengthen consumer protection. We in the Liberals think that it is good when the market itself takes responsibility and makes clear the difference between serious and less serious operators, but we think there is a need to strengthen consumer protection legislation in this area anyway. Madam President, I would like We have been able to follow a number of individual cases of attention in the media in recent years. It is therefore important that the government now returns on the basis of the Swedish National Audit Office's report with proposals that strengthen consumer protection in the case of delayed right-of-occupancy contracts, which ensure that consumers receive sufficient and adapted information about the risks of a purchase and that the roles and information responsibilities of real estate agents and home developers are clearly defined. That is why I support the committee's proposal in the report. Finally, when the government revises this legislation, it is also very important that the new legislation that comes into place does not reduce the possibility of housing agents being funded. More people need to be able to demand a dwelling, and this is a very important form of housing in today's housing market. More people must be able to experience putting the key in their new home and feel that life's biggest business became a good deal.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-126	Madam President, I would like Effective minority protection in limited liability companies and economic associations will be the result of the decision taken by Parliament later today. The Center Party welcomes this, especially since the lack of consumer protection has allowed free play for criminal fraudsters to hijack housing rights associations for their own profit, something we have seen happen in Malmö, among other places. It is now becoming more difficult for them to oppose the transparency of minority shareholders or members of a limited liability company or an economic association, as it is in these cases. If at least one tenth of the shareholders or members of an economic association so require, a special auditor or minority auditor shall be appointed by the Swedish Companies Registration Office to monitor the interests of the minority, without the need for a decision to be made at a general meeting or general meeting. The reviewer must be suitable and also independent in relation to the company and its owner or association, its board of directors and its members, they say. In order for this not to be done by the public authorities, it is proposed that the applicant be liable in certain cases for the costs incurred by the association or company. This prevents special scrutiny being used as a means of exerting pressure on a company or association in cases where the review is inexplicably unnecessary. In line with what has previously been discussed about consumer protection in the purchase of newly produced dwellings, we are dealing here with measures regulating all associations, new and old. We note that there is concern among HSB, Riksbyggen and also the housing company that this is for intervention against the associations. The Swedish Companies Registration Office, which receives this responsibility, also sees difficulties with independence. They feel that this very thing, that it may be difficult to find someone who is independent, can be used by boards in order to delay the appointment of reviewers. It is of course the association or the company that should bear the cost of the review, and for that reason it is understandable if the association or the company wants to avoid it as far as possible. Precisely because there may be legitimate interests on both sides in a dispute, there need to be rules that in some cases it is the person who requested the review who should bear the cost. It is here, Madam President, that we in the Center Party want to see an evaluation. Well aware that there is a running evaluation of new laws, we believe that it is the courts' interpretation of the law that needs to be followed up here. It is how the concept is interpreted in court, clearly unneeded, that determines whether a minority feels that it makes sense to request an independent special reviewer like the nail father the housing association's economy on the mere suspicion that there has been fraud. Should it then turn out that you were wrong, you as a private individual must be worried that there will be a bill for the review. How much costs should a board of companies or associations have to set aside from the members' fees or the company's income in order to one-tenth decide to oppose the board and request an audit? Madam President, I would like The Center Party welcomes this law, but we see difficulties in applying it. That is why we are in favour of our reservation No 1.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-134	Madam President, I would like This is, as Ola Johansson says, a very important issue. It is called for by all the terrible events that took place in Malmö, among others, some time ago, where tenant-owner associations were hijacked by legal persons who owned large shares of voting rights in the associations. It is extremely gratifying that the whole Parliament has been involved in this matter. Members from other committees have even taken part in the debates, including those of the Center Party, which I think is fantastic. Just as we have just debated, it is good when we can agree and stop behind an issue. Then there will also be results. Such a result is on the table here today. 10 per cent of the members of a right-of-occupancy association should be able to request an audit through a special independent reviewer, thanks to this legislation. It'll make a difference. I respect Ola Johansson's concerns about the interpretation of the legal concepts. It is not always the case that the courts fall into the interpretations that we in this House had intended to do so. But this is a process that is ongoing. As we know from the previous case, we also have a national audit looking at these things. I do not therefore have the concern that Ola Johansson has that this would somehow fall between the chairs. I think it is important to let this take its course. But should it turn out that we end up in a situation where the law becomes toothless and people with a private financial risk do not dare to use the special reviewer or where associations have to put large amounts of money in order to guard themselves against various more or less legalistic individuals who try to push something through in a voice, we obviously need to revise the law. I do not think that will be a problem, because this is an issue in which we agree. We have agreed on the product, and can we then identify with our tentacles that there is a problem we have a good start in the discussion and a good climate for conversation. Then we will also be able to correct this. So I do not really feel that Mr C.'s motion is justified, but, of course, shares the desire for follow-up on this issue.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-141	Madam President, I would like The effective protection of minorities in public limited liability companies and economic associations is what we are discussing. It should be borne in mind in this regard that there are actually 1.7 million Swedes who currently live in a right-of-occupancy building. In the vast majority of cases, mortgages have been loan-financed, and homes are of great private economic value. About a year ago, property owners released a report showing that 12 per cent of Sweden's housing associations have been exposed to financial crime during the last five years. This shows the importance of strengthening legislation in this area in a variety of ways, both to strengthen the members of a right-of-occupancy association and to ensure that society is able to function in general. The legislative changes aimed at here concern both limited companies and economic associations. Among other things, they mean that a special reviewer or minority auditor should be able to be appointed by the Swedish Companies Registration Office. Without first having to deal with the matter at a meeting, one should be able to develop a reviewer to review the association economy. New legislation is being introduced to prevent a majority from delaying such a case. It requires 10 percent of the members of the association to request it in order for it to be implemented. These are important measures that are needed after what we have read in the media in recent years about what can happen in a right-of-occupancy association and how much it can affect the individual members there. The amendment will enter into force on 1 January 2021. There are several examples of how housing associations have been hijacked and plundered. Financial resources have been made available by taking over housing associations. One example is the right-of-occupancy association Ida in Malmö, where SEK 250 million was earned over a two-year period. This naturally led to increased rents and reduced market value for those who own the tenant-owners. They may not even be able to get rid of their flats. This is an extremely serious situation that really needs to be taken into account in this context. This has made it possible for organised crime to have access to new financial resources, and it also has the consequence that residential areas are closed down because the housing associations are not maintained in the way that would have been the case in an association where one really has an interest in one's own home. This is serious in many ways, both for society and for individuals. Of course, we need to follow developments following the introduction of the bill, so that it provides sufficient financial protection and does not adversely affect associations in terms of economics. We will of course return to Parliament with proposals for a study on new legislation if there are reasons for this after a review of how the new law works after it has entered into force. The Swedish Democrats support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-149	Madam President, I would like Corona is now moving in over large parts of Sweden again. The spread of infection is increasing dramatically both here and in other countries. Then we must gather together and work together through the crisis again, cooperate between parliament and government, between government and opposition, between the state, municipalities and regions. It's time to help each other, not point fingers. Therefore, it was not entirely impressive to hear the Minister of Social Affairs in Sweden's Television's Mission audit blame the spring breakdown with corona testing on the country's hardworking regions. It's unworthy, because it wasn't true. And in crisis you take responsibility and lead, in crisis you do not swear free from leadership. I assume that was the last time we heard that. But in order to work together and help each other, one needs to know what the strategy is, and it is not quite obvious at the moment. There will be dual messages about what applies, different signals from week to week, relieved national restrictions on crowds one day being contradicted by tougher rules on the other day. At yesterday's meeting, I asked what is actually the Swedish strategy and what analysis is at the moment behind that strategy. I got the answer: to do the right thing at the right time. With all due respect, it is never a bad idea to do the right thing at the right time, but it is a prerequisite for success in all strategies. It provides very little guidance right now. I therefore ask the question again: Can Stefan Löfven explain the Swedish strategy to the Riksdag right now? And what's the plan for the future?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-154	Madam President, I would like It is not difficult, because it is the same main strategy that we have had all along. The aim is to limit the spread of infection and protect life and health. That must be the most important goal. This includes ensuring that Swedish health care has the necessary resources. Part of the strategy is also to alleviate the consequences for businesses and employees, to keep the activities of social importance, which can be transport and food supply, and to alleviate concerns with good information. The choice to then make the right decision at the right time is made precisely on the basis of this strategy. The main strategy applies. But then the reality changes during a pandemic, and then, of course, we have to make decisions on that basis. You learn during a pandemic. There is a big difference between knowledge now in healthcare, for example, and when the pandemic began. It is clear that then comes the new decision and that you sometimes have to adjust the decision. That's how it has to be. But the main strategy is exactly the same and, of course, I think it is quite right. What does this situation require? How we do with national, local and regional decisions to ensure that social distance is maintained is a key issue now. It is for this reason that the government is proposing the ban on the sale of alcohol after 22 o'clock, because we know that such places are certainly part of, not all, the problem of the spread of infection. The fact that we had previously removed the ban on visits to retirement homes was due to the fact that 86 000 elderly people had had a very, very difficult situation for a long time, and we wanted to try to give them an opportunity for a better life.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-160	Madam President, I would like I said at the beginning of the pandemic that we must test, detect and isolate those who are ill and infected, so that the elderly of the country do not bear the total cost of total isolation and loneliness. That was the main reason why Sweden managed to get a really broad testing started faster than Sweden did. That's where we've come a long way. I do not think anyone is distrusting the intentions of the government or the Prime Minister. But I think that many people think that there is a lack of clarity, a considerable lack of clarity. One week you ease several restrictions and send the signal that now the worst is probably over. The second week it is said that we now have local cluster outbreaks with very local restrictions that now cover a large majority of the country's regions, and more are in line. Then a national ban is added on late night restaurant evenings. I think it may be a little unclear how the government sees the situation.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-162	Madam President, I would like Yes, testing and contamination detection are of course a central part. That is why we have allocated over 9 billion for precisely this purpose in a cooperation and an agreement with the regions to make it work better. The latest number I think is up to 233 000 tested in a week. That's probably in line with what other countries are doing. That is in line with what Germany, for example, does. We need to improve this further. This requires a review of the infrastructure, not least the laboratory part which is still a bottleneck. This requires, among other things, better cooperation between the regions and the private ones who can do this. It is true that local restrictions cover many now. The Public Health Agency says that there is now local advice. They also come closer to people and are perhaps even better complied with than the centrally decided advice.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-165	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! The other week, a new pension alarm came up. For a large part of today's 65-year-olds 40 years of work will not pay off. Even with the new pension supplement, they will not receive more pension than, for example, immigrants who have not worked a single day in Sweden. Such a large proportion of pension money goes to those who have never worked in Sweden that those who have actually worked are even punished with lower pensions than those who have not worked. SPF's calculations show that three out of four Swedish pensioners will receive a pension that is worse than basic protection, despite the new supplement and despite the announced tax reduction. My question, Madam President, to the Prime Minister is: Why does Stefan Löfven prioritise immigration over Swedish pensioners who have paid taxes during a long working life in Sweden?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-167	Madam President, I would like It's a strange rhetoric. In fact, during our reign, the income of pensioners has increased considerably, much more than inflation. We are lowering the unfair tax on pensioners, i.e. the higher tax on income for pensioners that the Swedish Democrats helped to introduce. We remove this difference, because we think it makes sense. We also raise the pension supplement. According to the current estimates of the Pension Authority, both the basic pension and the earnings pension will increase next year. We do not really know what happens with the premium pension; we will see how the stock market develops in the autumn. However, there is no doubt that the country's pensioners have received higher incomes during our time. In addition, the government has also introduced free primary care for the elderly over 85, cheap dental care and made sure that more retirement homes are built. Pensioners' conditions have been at the heart of our policy because we believe that we should have a good life in the autumn of age. That is why we have ensured that pensioners are financially better off, and we want them to continue to be better off.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-172	Madam President, I would like Now my question was about the fact that despite the improvements Stefan Löfven is talking about, three out of four Swedish pensioners will receive a pen's ion that is lower than the basic protection – according to SPF's calculations. Of course, you can talk about all the good things you have done, but in spite of this, the conditions will be worse. For many, they will be worse than for people who have not worked a single day in our country. Does the Swedish Prime Minister think this is reasonable? I don't think so.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-175	Madam President, I would like That is what I am saying: we have made sure that income has increased. I do not know where the task is that three out of four people would have a lower pension than the basic benefit. We have increased the basic pension, and those who have worked a full working life are now, thank God, receiving the pension supplement. This $5,000 a year in estimated money will do much for them. It's an important addition. I do not remember the exact amount, but since we took office, pensioners have received a substantial real contribution. We will continue to ensure that pensioners have better financial conditions, but also better conditions in other ways, because pensioners deserve both good care for the elderly and good financial security. There are few, I would say, who cannot see that pensioners have had much better financial conditions during the time we have led the government.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-181	Madam President, I would like Eight months have passed since the coronapandemy hit Sweden, and it has hit hard. Almost everyone has been affected in some way, not least by the restrictions that have been imposed in the meantime. Restrictions are necessary to combat the spread of infection, that is the case. But they must be effective, predictable and fair. What surprises me and the Center Party is that, although eight months have passed, the government has not made sure that an effective pandemic law is in place, but is using the law of order, which has a completely different purpose from combating the spread of infection. As a result, opera performances have been subject to the same limitations as football matches despite the fact that there are completely different spreads of infection. This has meant that amusement parks must be closed while zoos may be open, although in all probability it is exactly the same spread of infection on them. These are just two examples; there are a number of other examples showing that this legislation does not work when it comes to combating the spread of infection. It is a major problem that we have not acquired an effective tool in the fight against infectious diseases. It is also a major problem because it reduces people's confidence in the political decisions taken. You don't understand the logic. Why is it one here and the other there? It affects culture and sports, and not least it costs society and the state money. My question to the Prime Minister is: why have we not yet had an effective pandemic law in place after eight months?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-188	Madam President, I would like I understand that the question has two parts. One concerns the measures taken and which Anders W Jonsson thinks is right. There must be restrictions during a pandemic, which affects culture, sport and so on. We can always discuss which measures are right, but I do not think anyone questions the need for action. Whether we had a pandemic law or not, we would have had to decide on measures that limit everyday life in order to create social distance. The second part concerns the Pandemic Act, and work on it is in full swing. However, as everyone in this Chamber knows, legislation must be preceded by investigation and preparation before it is put on the table of Parliament. That is why the government asked the Riksdag for a special mandate, an authorisation, in the meantime without a pandemic law. We got it, but then it turned out that we didn't have to use it very much. Maybe it wasn't as effective as everyone at first thought. We cannot rush a bill to put on Parliament's table before it is investigated and prepared, but the work is ongoing and should be done as quickly as possible. But even with a pandemic law, we had to make uncomfortable decisions regarding restrictions on crowds or prohibitions on alcohol sales. As I said, the work is going on and done as quickly as possible, but it must be done thoroughly according to the constitution we have to relate to.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-193	Madam President, I would like The crucial difference is that we now use an incredibly blunt instrument, the law of order, which strikes equally for all activities regardless of the risk of infection being spread or what other opportunities there are to take action. This is what causes such problems. Take the examples I mentioned with different rules for zoos and amusement parks but the same rules for opera performances and football matches. The government should have spent these eight months getting an effective instrument, an effective legislation in place so that we could actually combat the infection. I would argue that we are not doing it as effectively today as we would if, like other countries, we had had a pandemic law. It is a good thing that three days after the Center Party launched a committee initiative in the Social Affairs Committee, a press release from the government announced that it would start to develop a pandemic law. But it has to happen quickly. In other situations, legislation has been rapidly developed, and now it is also a matter of urgency.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-197	Madam President, I would like It is true that the law of order has obvious disadvantages, and that is exactly why we are working to change the law. It is easy to say that it must be done quickly; everyone can. But we must comply with the requirements of the Constitution. It is a question of restricting people's freedom. We can't just do limitation and then see how it goes. It must be investigated, prepared and discussed before a proposal is placed on Parliament's table. A poorly prepared proposal, I believe and hope that Parliament will say no to, so this is being carefully prepared. These are important values at stake. It is important to effectively limit the spread of infection, but we must also stand up for fundamental values in society. It is this balance that is being addressed at the moment. We do it as fast as we can, because we have no reason to wait. But it must be done properly.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-201	Madam President, I would like Last spring we saw that precarious employment and work in hours led to the Corona virus spreading more rapidly in the country's retirement homes, and the other day we received reports that a star chef has subjected employees to abuse. It's hard to tell off if you don't have security in your employment. It should be clear to the Prime Minister that what is needed in the Swedish labour market is more security, not less. Today, there is an agreement between two out of three social partners. One and a half million LO members are not present because the agreement is too bad for them. Now the question is how the government should proceed. It should be clear that all parties are involved in a change of legislation, because it applies to all persons. Whether you are a civil engineer or a nurse, a new legislation will meet you. If the government moves forward without all parties involved, the Left Party no longer has confidence in the Prime Minister. There goes our red line. Stefan Löfven knows that legislation cannot be enforced without LO's support. I want to hear from Stefan Löfven that he will not try to do so either, so that we can move forward and focus on solving the real problems in the Swedish labour market. Can Stefan Löfven tell us today that he will not run over LO on the issue of job security?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-205	Madam President, I would like With all due respect, we have already said that. Both the Minister for Labour and I have said that legislation on the labour market should work for the whole labour market, whether you are a private or a public employee and whether you are an academic, an official or a worker. One prerequisite for a legislative process is to involve everyone involved. Now we have an agreement between two parties that LO has said no to. That is the agreement that exists to work on, and now it will be taken forward instead of the previous investigation. Now this is the main track. In this process everyone should be involved and present their views, and then we will see where it ends. I do not have an exact timetable, but it will be some time in the spring. You have to look into it. It will not be in a form similar to the previous investigation, but it will be an investigation to arrive at a department letter. The process shall begin. We will write directives to it, and then everyone will be there. In addition to the social partners, it will surely be the Labour Court, the Mediation Institute and others who also want to be involved. Let us gather as much knowledge as possible and work and process a proposal that can be put on Parliament's table and work for the whole labour market.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-208	Madam President, I would like Do I understand the Prime Minister correctly that he will not come forward with a proposal to Parliament without the support of LO as well? Is it so that LO can express and have its demands met, such as removing the stacking of fixed-term contracts and eliminating the abuse of planing? Is that how I'm supposed to understand the Prime Minister's answer?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-209	Madam President, I would like Exactly what the end result will be, the process must show, but there is LO. Of course it is. There should be a proposal that works and that everyone feels would work for them as well. Now PTK has adopted it all, but there can certainly be different views on what as good or less good even among associations within central organizations. Let us now take this time, make sure to be as pragmatic and constructive as possible from various quarters and produce a proposal that can be put on Parliament's table – a new labour market legislation that works for the whole labour market. This requires the active participation of all parties.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-213	Madam President, I would like Europe has been shaken by a wave of Islamic violence. The murder of French teacher Samuel Paty has been followed by acts of terror against Christians in Nice and the shooting of terror in Vienna. The reason is our freedom of expression, the freedom of expression that Samuel Paty tried to teach and which Emmanuel Macron has defended. Macron has used his freedom of expression. He has called for the evil that has struck France by its true name: Islamist separatism. It is not Islam, because it is not Muslim faith itself that is the problem, but violent sects. I agree with Stefan Lövven's statement on the condemnation of the murder of the French teacher, but, especially in the light of Mr Macron's statement, I cannot help but note that the Prime Minister did not mention the evil by name. He failed to mention radical Islamism. Paty's murder was rife within the Islamic parallel societies that exist in France. Patys's killer did not know him, had no children at school, had not seen the cartoon and lived in another part of France. The killer was incited to the plot. Islamist separatism is also present in Sweden. Hundreds of people left Sweden to join IS, and many belonged in the same neighborhoods. My question to the Prime Minister is: Can a teacher of social science at every school in Sweden show the same caricatures as the French teacher Paty showed without risking life or limb?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-218	Madam President, I would like Yes, a Swedish teacher should be able to do so. It is important for the whole of society to show support for teachers, regardless of the situation. Of course, we must stand up for our freedom of expression and never ever accept that anyone wants to restrict it, or any other freedom for that matter either, because violent or radicalized people think they can take over the right to decide what we can say or not say. No, that's never acceptable. We must stand up for freedom of expression in schools as well as in society at large. Of course, teachers should feel this support. They're supposed to have it. We have not seen any signs that they cannot, but I know that there are problems also in Swedish school with students questioning. We have not seen any signs of violent tendencies, but these are questions. Then the teachers should feel support, and therefore the Swedish National Agency for Education has set up a support mechanism for teachers to take that kind of discussion, which can be quite difficult. We have also taken note of a material which I do not now remember the name of but which is developed within the framework of EU cooperation precisely because many countries see this problem. Now we must ensure that we have support, guidance and a handrail for teachers, for example, who need to take the discussion in the classroom. Yeah, we're gonna stand up for our freedom of expression-- there's no doubt about that.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-223	Madam President, I would like We know from teachers' reports that in schools where Islamism has gained ground there are taboo subjects and problems in teaching, for example, the Holocaust, tolerance to minorities and freedom of expression, even in matters that can be considered sacred. My question to the Prime Minister was not whether he condemns violence. I know he does. My question to the Prime Minister was not whether he stands up for freedom of expression either. I know he does. My question was why the Prime Minister chose not to speak out about violent Islamism and highlight it in the way that Säpo does, as one of the greatest terrorist threats to Sweden. The question was not whether a teacher should be able to show a caricature, but the question was how the Prime Minister estimates that freedom of speech in Sweden and whether a teacher can do so today without risking his life?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-225	Madam President, I would like The ultimate assessment of what can be done in different situations in different schools or if there are problems in different schools should not I do. There is. According to Säpo, we have some religious free schools where we see radicalisation. That is why I am against them, and I would like to see a stop to new religious free schools for that reason, among other reasons. Not all religious free schools have this problem, but there is. I believe that the important thing is that society stands up and that the state expresses it. We will stand up for our freedom of expression throughout society and at school, and the teachers must be able to feel secure in this situation and feel that they can and should do so. When we have problems with questioning in schools, we have to put in place special measures. Those who do this best are the authority that will support the school and the teachers, namely the Swedish National Agency for Education. There are others too.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-227	Madam President, I would like Every other direct investment from China to the EU is a security threat, wrote journalist Patrik Oksanen a few days ago. This week it became known that the Administrative Court in Stockholm inhibits the Swedish Post and Telecom Authority's decision to exclude components from the Huawei network during the roll-out of the 5G network. China has increased its repressive grip on Hong Kong over the past year. Taiwan's security is in question, and Uighurs are placed in detention camps. My hometown Gothenburg is also Gui Minhais's hometown. According to Säpo, China is one of the three countries that conduct active pick-up in Sweden. China is an economic power, an expansive foreign policy and a security policy risk factor. It is almost exactly a year since the government presented the Chinese letter to Parliament. How does the Prime Minister view this letter today?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-230	Madam President, I would like I look at it the way we presented it. It is, of course, a complex picture. In its yearbook, Säpo also describes the active information gathering in the country and related problems. We need to be very open about this. That is why we are protecting ourselves in this Parliament. I believe that the safety law that we have decided to reduce the risks to our technology, such as 5G and that infrastructure, can be one of the few laws that have been decided unanimously. But it is also the case that we have cooperation with China. We want it, not least in the climate area. China will be a very important player there. China has a great deal of knowledge in many areas. That is why we want cooperation there. That is why I now look at this letter in the same way as I did at the time.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-232	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for that answer. I want to move us abroad, to the EU and to the relations of the EU and China within the EU – China Comprehensive Agreement. Can we expect the Swedish Government, within this framework, to point to the risks of direct investment in the EU at this time and also to point to the human rights abuses that are taking place?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-234	Madam President, I would like As far as technology is concerned, Parliament has adopted a law that is not aimed at any country, but that will ensure that we protect important technology and infrastructure. Therefore, the authorities that have to deal with this are also working on the basis of this legislation. It is not against any countries or countries; it is neutral in this part. But it captures the kind of problem that Maria Nilsson addresses.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-236	Madam President, I would like We have seen how the spread of covid-19 infection has now increased throughout Europe and also in our country. Many Swedes are concerned that they will suffer for themselves or that a loved one will be affected. Moreover, many are concerned about their future supply. As the Prime Minister has said, we must all get our act together now. It is only together that we can reduce this spread of infection. But of course the government also has a great responsibility. I would therefore like to ask what I think many people are asking. What has Sweden done to equip itself for this continuing pandemic?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-238	Madam President, I would like We know more now, that's it. In that sense, we are better prepared. On the other hand, new situations will certainly arise also in the context of this pandemic that we could not foresee. However, there is no doubt that there is a better level of preparedness in healthcare, for example. I am thinking of the technical equipment, the equipment needed and the emergency stocks that need to be kept. In the care of the elderly, about 160 000 people have now been trained in hygiene procedures to ensure that the infection is removed. In addition, there has been competence development. The National Board of Health and Welfare now has clear coordination tasks, for example if you need to move equipment or people between regions. In various ways we have built this up during the pandemic. In that sense, we are better equipped today.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-240	Madam President, I would like The Corona virus is sometimes transmitted between humans and animals, including minks. In Denmark, a mutated version of sars covid-19 has been discovered in minks. So far, over 200 people have been infected with mutated viruses. The vaccines that are now being developed risk not biting on the new variants. The fear scenario is that such mutated viruses give rise to completely new pandemics. In Sweden we have only about thirty mink farms left, and in one third of them there is already covid infection. How does the Prime Minister view the enormous risks associated with infection between minks and humans and the risk of mutated coronavirus spreading from Swedish mink farms via guest workers and into society?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-244	Madam President, I would like In Sweden we have also had some cases on our mink farms, but not to the same extent as in Denmark. The problems are different. There the nutrition is huge on a rather small surface. But we should not underestimate that there is such a risk. But in Sweden we have not seen the same mutation as in Denmark. That's why it's different. The Swedish Board of Agriculture, the Swedish National Veterinary Institute and the Swedish Public Health Agency work closely together on this. There are restrictions on every facility in Sweden, and this is monitored and measured and tested if there is any such risk. You don't see anything like that. If you do so and turn to the government and say you need help, we are prepared to make such decisions.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-247	Madam President and the Prime Minister. Few in here and few in Sweden have had the right to vote in the American elections. Yet, what is happening in the United States affects us to a very large extent. I believe that many of us in Europe will be happy and relieved when the 46th President is sworn in, not least because there is an international commitment to the UN, to the WHO, to the WTO and, not least, to NATO. However, it should be remembered that Trump and the Republicans received a little over 70 million votes. The issue mentioned as number one in election polls is the economy. I believe that the economy is important not only in the USA but also in Sweden. New figures on unemployment came in October – 8.8 per cent. Nearly 173 000 people are long-term unemployed and have been unemployed for more than 12 months. Unemployment is rising, and the economy is a problem. The economy affected the American elections. The economy also affects Sweden. Is the Prime Minister worried?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-251	Madam President, I would like Of course, we should be concerned about all the unemployed because people should be in work. It is a matter of freedom for the individual, and it is our way of ensuring that we can afford welfare. Unemployment is therefore a scourge. I am therefore pleased that, before the pandemic struck, we were able to reduce unemployment quite substantially. We had never had such a high employment rate and never had so many people employed. It was therefore a step in the right direction. The pandemic will of course have the economic consequences, including for businesses and other sectors. That is why, in the budget proposal for 2021, the government now allocates so much money, for example to the public sector and otherwise to educational efforts that we believe will lead to 75 000 jobs as early as next year. With the investments made in elderly care, for example, this figure will grow over the years. We must constantly be very careful to reduce unemployment and increase employment.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-254	Madam President, I would like This week we have been able to read about the nurse Christine, who got covid-19 at work in the health care sector and is now threatened by insurance. In my opinion, this is not just a problem involving people with suites of covid-19 but a symptom of long-term inoperative health insurance. What was originally intended as a rehabilitation chain with various support measures along the way has turned the Social Democrats into an insurance chain where people after 180 days are basically thrown out into the street despite continued disease problems. Even in a report from the Swedish National Audit Office on the path to work after denied sickness benefit, the government is strongly criticised for the lack of support for individuals who are left under insurance instead of getting the right support to find their way back to work. When is the government going to take on board this criticism instead of always blaming the Alliance for being worse and seriously doing something about its policy on insurance?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-257	Madam President, I would like Sickness insurance should be a security. The individual should know that it has financial security when it is ill and unable to work, so that it can get back. I think that more needs to be done with regard to the rehabilitation part, because the very best we can do for people is for them to get back to work. But for those who are ill, health insurance should of course work. In fact, we were the ones who removed the automatic phasing out at 180 days, but we have more to do. That is why we are investigating how health insurance should work, both for those who are in the middle of working life and for those who are at the end of their working life. That is why we are also looking at the possibilities of sickness benefit – to ensure that people do not have to retire too early but can actually rely on health insurance. We work to improve health insurance. It also includes, I think, the need for us to discuss, for the next budget, higher compensation in health insurance.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-262	Madam President, I would like Our society is being digitised everywhere. Welfare, business and our daily contacts are increasingly digital, not least at this time. Digitalisation brings great benefits, but it also poses major challenges for our social system. As a society, we need to be more prepared for these rapid and revolutionary changes. But Sweden is not ready. We are far from the world leader in AI, according to the IT and telecom companies. In several measurements we see that countries that were only a few years ago far behind us are passing us by. Sweden is even the last in the OECD Digital Government Index, so we are the last in the entire OECD. The state and politics must catch up, but where the state needs to show its feet, the state today is often more an obstacle than an enabler. Clear leadership is needed, and it must come from the top. Great is the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister must begin to realise the importance for welfare, growth and people's everyday lives of bringing Sweden back to digital management.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-266	Madam President, I would like It is obvious that digitalisation is important – it is here and now, and it is the future. That's why the government is working with important research centres to make us the top in AI. There is a lot of research and development going on here. In addition, we are perhaps among those who are best at expanding broadband. This will also be absolutely necessary. The important research and development is one thing, but then it will also work out in society so that everyone can actually use the opportunities of digitalisation. Then the roll-out of broadband is extremely important. Added to this is an education and skills development requirement, so that all people can assimilate and use digitalisation. I think this is so important. Here we need to look at the whole chain, from development and research to infrastructure, skills and know-how.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-270	Madam President, I would like Just as Annika Hirvonen Falk from the Green Party mentioned before, coronavirus has been discovered in ten Swedish mink farms. In the Netherlands and Denmark, it has been decided to shut down their fur farms after detection of viruses there. A particularly worrying aspect that has been highlighted in the past is that the virus has proved capable of mutating, as it has done in Denmark, which makes it even more difficult to combat. The fur industry is fundamentally unethical. Hundreds of thousands of animals are raised every year, kept in minimal cages, and killed in a painful way. Yesterday, Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin told the Express that we must shut down the mink farms as soon as possible. In view of this, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister intend to stop all mink farming during the current pandemic, and does he intend to decide to phase out the entire fur industry in Sweden?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-272	Madam President, I would like To begin with, we will probably have to back down and look at what Denmark has de facto done. It wasn't what they said at first, but you'll still have minks. This is the first. The second is that what we have to do now is to ensure that we limit the infection as much as we can ever do. The authorities today say that they do not see any contamination transmitted from these facilities to people in the community. The authorities are following this very closely. Should they give signals that some kind of government action or decision is needed to stop the spread of the disease, or to prevent it from seeing a risk, the government is prepared to make such decisions. I am not here and now prepared to say that we should put this whole industry down. Anyone who drives this discussion will have to take it a little later; now we will focus on limiting the spread of the disease.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-276	Madam President, I would like The Children's Ombudsman's report on children growing up in vulnerable areas states that children in vulnerable areas feel that they are excluded from large parts of society and that they do not believe that they can implement their future plans. It's not hard to understand why. I would like to give three examples: Of 150 returning IS terrorists, no one has been prosecuted; instead, they go on grants. The social security allowance is paid out to black contracts that criminal networks benefit from. 中 Worst of all: The National Education Council, which is tasked with strengthening democracy and increasing social participation, finances subsidy fraud and radical Islamism. Instead of tax money going to children and democracy, they go to the followers of IS, the Muslim Brotherhood and the Grey Wolves in Sweden. Madam President, I would like It's urgent. Extremists and criminal networks go to places where they can dominate and create a parallel society. What does the Prime Minister intend to do to make children in vulnerable areas feel confident in the future?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-282	Madam President, I would like It was a two-part question. One is about crime and the other about how to make more children and young people feel confident about the future. Crime must always be fought. We should not have any money going to organisations that do not profess our democracy, freedom of expression and freedom of opinion and to all our fundamental values. This legislation is now being processed and prepared for us to overcome this and strengthen the law that needs to be strengthened. In addition, the authorities must, of course, beware of what they pay and do not pay. Now it's not all the money going there; I think Robert Hannah gave a somewhat unfair description. There is a lot of money going to very good activities, also for those young people who need faith in the future and hope for the future. In addition, these young people and children should watch their parents go to work; it should be normal. They're supposed to want to go to school themselves. For this reason, for example, we are spending much more on schools that need more resources. I'm going to give them more resources.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-286	Madam President, I would like In the election campaign 2018 we Social Democrats promised that we would introduce a so-called family week, which was very pleasing to many. The reform is therefore part of the January Agreement and has also been announced in the latest budget for 2021. Last week, therefore, the government sent out a proposal on how to carry this out on a referral. However, there are those who say that the family week will lead to fewer hours worked. This is happening at a time when the coronapndemy has already caused us to have a severely deteriorating economy, and many say that we should work more rather than less. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: Is this really the time to carry out the family week? Should we really be working more and not less?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-289	Madam President, I would like Yeah, we're gonna work more. We're going to have more hours worked. Throughout the last century and throughout this discussion we have also, except in times of high unemployment, had more hours worked. It is also possible for more people to combine work and family life. Today too many parents do not have the opportunity to be with their children when, for example, it is a day of study at school or whatever it may be. For they must be at work, and the children cannot be at work if they work in a factory, for example. Some can handle it by bringing the children to work. But far too many wage earners cannot do that. For these children and parents, this is an important reform, in order to have a greater chance of making the whole life puzzle go together. It is therefore a good reform.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-291	Madam President, I would like Today, children are being used to sell drugs. It is well known by both the police and social services. Young people under the age of 15 are not of criminal age. This takes advantage of the criminal gangs. It is not a big city problem today but is found in all of our 290 municipalities in Sweden, even in Dalarna's 15 municipalities. It is not allowed for the police to search minors without special reasons. That's what the professionals know. According to a report from the Stockholm Police Department in 2019, two thirds of the criminal gangs use children. What that number looks like today, I don't even have the guts to think about. My question to Prime Minister Löfven is: What is the delay in giving the police the tools they so badly need, for example, to allow physical visas for young people without special reasons, to make it more difficult for criminal gangs to recruit children?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-294	Madam President, I would like We've given the police an enormous amount of more resources. We've tightened up many laws and introduced new crimes. The police have also been given better tools. We also remove the youth discount and make it possible with what we call youth monitoring. We have to take it step by step. Malin Höglund describes the problem just right. The professionals use children to carry guns, drugs and so on. It must, of course, be prevented in some way. However, we must both admit that it is not just to say that children must now also be searched. In that case, it's a step we're taking. However, we need to look at all possibilities to prevent the professions from continuing as they do. We will have to come back to exactly what measures this involves. But the Home Secretary is working on it.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-298	Madam President, I would like In 2015, the Prime Minister claimed that asylum immigration will be an economic gain a little later. He was right in that it is definitely not the case right now. New figures from SCB show that only one third of the m who arrived in 2015 has come in some type of work, including people who earn as little as 8 000 SEK per month. Other studies, for example from the Entrepreneurship Forum, show that a large majority of those who come from the Middle East and Africa never become self-sufficient in Sweden. Given that mass immigration continues unabated – 118 000 new residence permits were issued last year – and that the government seems to be investing the whole of Sweden's future in the fact that it will eventually lead to profits, the Prime Minister owes a clarification. What does it mean a little later?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-301	Madam President, I would like It is the government that I lead that has significantly reduced the reception of asylum to Sweden. It is now much smaller. There is also other immigration, such as labour migration. Some of this immigration is what companies are asking for. It can be about engineers, researchers and other categories. Some, however, are not. We believe that we should actually have different rules for labour immigration. I think of those who come here from the other side of the world and perhaps stand in a kitchen where they work under very unworthy conditions. During the last parliamentary term, we considerably shortened the time for the new arrivals who come to our country to come to work. We must continue to do so. The three pillars we are now building on include language, links to working life and, of course, social information. You should get to work much faster.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-304	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! My question touches somewhat on the question that Ebba Busch asked earlier. In recent times, Europe has again suffered numerous terrorist attacks – in Paris, in Nice and most recently in Vienna. In those cases, the acts of terrorism have had Islamic protagonists, and it seems that the perpetrators have often been radicalised online or in smaller groups. Since last Friday, the Swedish police have also launched a special incident in connection with the terrorist crimes.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-308	Madam President, I would like It is a work that goes on continuously, nationally and not least in the EU. Of course, it is also going on globally, but we cooperate most in the European Union. For example, we have enabled the FRA, Must and the Security Service to coordinate their information and coordinate it in what is called the National Centre for Threat Assessment. We have criminalised terrorist travel, terrorist financing and training in terrorist acts and that kind of crime. We've introduced a new security team. And we have increased the penalties for, for example, illegal possession of weapons and hand grenades. I would also like to highlight what Europol and Eurojust are doing in this area. The fact that Europol succeeded in breaking encryption in Encrochat has meant a great deal. The European cooperation we are involved in is therefore very valuable to our own ability to deal with this. But this won't be released for a second.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-312	Madam President, I would like This week we were informed that Huawei in the Administrative Court has been able to temporarily stop PTS auctioning the 5G network. When the Riksdag passed the law that was the basis of PTS's decision, the Riksdag also announced to the Government that the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces should turn to the Government and not to the Administrative Court when, for security reasons, decisions on the 5G issue need to be appealed. Madam President, I would like The government controls the country and is ultimately responsible for Swedish security. It is not something you can refer to a court or authority. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore whether he thinks that matters relating to Sweden's security should be decided in an administrative law or by the government itself. I also wonder when the government intends to return to Parliament on the announcement of the Riksdag. It has now been a year since we made that decision.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-315	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament has adopted a new security law that was implemented on 1 January this year. This was the basis for PTS's decision. Linked to that legislation is what I know is also a handling for the case you are not satisfied with PTS's decision. This includes the possibility of appeal to a court. And there's the question. If I am not completely misinformed, then this is in accordance with the legislation in place in this area. So I am a little unsure what Pål Jonson means by his question. This is the regulatory framework and structure that exists for such issues. It is a fairly new piece of legislation. Now the case is before the Court of Justice for a decision. That's what I understand according to the regulations.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-319	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! Global media players are becoming an increasingly important part of Sweden's and the world's information infrastructure. It has given American and Chinese players significant power over the information infrastructure in Sweden and has silenced several influential debaters, politicians and even ordinary citizens. This means that the companies or countries from which the companies originate have extensive opportunities to influence the dissemination of information and the opinions that can be expressed within this part of our information infrastructure. In view of the debate on our freedom of expression, which is a constitution, I would like to ask the following question: what measures does the Prime Minister think need to be taken to ensure that votes and opinions are not silenced in the debate?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-321	Madam President, I would like It must be the responsibility of all actors, platforms, media companies or what it can be to ensure that you stand up for freedom of expression. But I do sometimes think that we have such a big problem with freedom of expression being used for a tone in the debate that I think very few people want. Someone has said that we should probably demand more transparency from the various actors, including the large platforms, when it comes to, for example, how algorithms are constructed. This is a huge problem. If we were free to think, we might have had some kind of public service for social media that could guarantee this. Now we do not have it, and then the pressure must lie on all actors to stand up for Swedish legislation.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-323	Madam President, I would like Both UN Women and UNICEF as well as idea-based organisations in Sweden, such as Bris and women's shelters, express great concern that women and children will be subjected to even more violence as society becomes more closed down. At the same time, we are hearing reports from countries in Europe that are reducing legislation to combat men's violence against women. This applies, for example, to Poland and Hungary, which are now opposed to the Istanbul Convention, which is such legislation. What are the Prime Minister and Government doing to ensure the protection and support of women and children who are victims of men's violence and to combat this violence? This applies both in Sweden and how the Prime Minister works with this internationally. This is an extremely important issue for children's rights and gender equality.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-325	Madam President, I would like That's absolutely right. We must be on real guard during the pandemic period when more communities are being shut down and more communities need to be at home and more women and children are being subjected to domestic violence and oppression. During the last parliamentary term, we adopted a long-term national strategy to focus for ten years on combating violence against women. We have strengthened children's rights in legislation by ensuring that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is implemented into Swedish law. All of this is done to protect both women and children. We have broad international cooperation and, of course, stand up for the Istanbul Convention, which is important for this. Wherever a gender equality discussion takes place, for example in the EU, and does not go in the direction that we think it should – a strengthened gender equality and not the other way around – we are there and say: We should stand up for women's rights. We have also made sure that the knowledge within the judiciary is tightened up and brought more resources to women's and girls' shelters.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-330	Madam President, I would like Today, many people in the country are concerned about their future connections to the capital. The government has asked Swedavia to produce a report on Bromma's future in the midst of a burning pandemic. Unfortunately, the report is classified, which means that we, among other things, who sit on the Transport Committee, have no opportunity to take note of the figures that Swedavia has presented. I wonder how the government intends to deal with this issue in the future. Firstly, is it prepared to decide on an early closure of Bromma based solely on this report? Secondly, if you make such a decision, how do you ensure that domestic flights can be accommodated at Arlanda Airport?
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-332	Madam President, I would like Part of this decision is Swedavia's. They will decide whether to make an investment or not. The second part of the question is the important thing. We will have an accessibility in and to Sweden. You must be able to fly to and from Sweden, but also within Sweden, at the distances where trains do not work. I've said before that I think it's a little strange that we have a small airport on one side of town and a half-sized on the other side of town – if I may put it that way. We should have an airport. We will first see how the development of aviation is going. We don't know that yet. Swedavia must relate to that. However, it is important that we in Sweden have the opportunity to fly both within the country and to and from Sweden, so that we have an accessibility. Exactly how this develops is difficult to say because we do not see how it goes with aviation. But we will have a capacity to fly both within the country and to and from the country.
i-c48c6172075a1d2b-335	It is 3:20 p.m., and it is time to make a decision on completed issues. I would first like to say that this is a very special moment that we are experiencing right here and now. The vote is moved in time from 4 p.m. to 15.20 p.m. We are therefore taking another step towards an equal parliament. This will make it easier to combine the mission we have here with family life at home. We should therefore give a warm thought to the gender equality group and the Riksdag Board, which has been the initiator of this.
