i-4851b58095e42577-8	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to support the Centre Party's reservation, which is also the only reservation in this report. Madam President, I would like This proposal is an important part of the activities being able to continue to work, but there are still some parts that we in the Center Party want to make visible and that we think the government should have moved on with. The Center Party considers it unfortunate that, although the government does not object to the proposal as such, it does not go further in investigating the consequences of introducing a reverse claim in Chapter 38. Section 1 Publicity and Confidentiality Act. A significant part of the data provided to and processed by the Swedish Defence Agency is either sensitive personal data or data of a highly integrity sensitive nature, such as personal conditions such as medicines, medical care and diagnoses, enrollment and war placement, service with total defence obligations or admissions to Swedish Armed Forces programmes. The data may also relate to family relationships. Madam President, I would like Individuals who provide data to the Total Defence Recruitment Authority do so under criminal responsibility. As an individual, you cannot choose not to disclose information. The current regulation means that the starting point is that data can be disclosed. In other areas of total defence, it is more important to protect the data provided by the individual, and this should also be the case in this case. The Center Party believes that this difference is unjustified. However, the consequences of the proposed amendment, including possible restrictions on public transparency, are not investigated, as the government also states. The Center Party therefore wants the government to investigate what can be done in the event of an inverse damage in this case. In this case, the state goes in and obliges people to provide information under criminal liability, and then there should also be a strong confidentiality for the individual. If it is really bad, foreign power could ask for information more easily, and that is what we absolutely must prevent. Regardless of what kind of damage is involved, it is not entirely confidential, but it is always possible to obtain information about individuals. However, it should be difficult to access information about individuals in areas where we want data protection to be strong, so that the individual cannot be harmed. It should of course be okay to disclose data while masking some data for reasons of privacy. Madam President, I would like It is also difficult to understand the government's position not to introduce a non-disclosure clause in Chapter 25. The Act of Publicity and Confidentiality to eliminate uncertainty in the sharing of information between the activities of the National Defence Recruitment Authority. In the bill, the government argues that the internal activities of the Total Defence Agency could be considered independent branches of operations and that they are thus subject to different confidentiality rules. This would mean that there would be confidentiality between them. Despite this uncertainty, the Government does not consider that a non-confidential provision needs to be introduced to ensure that the necessary information can be shared within the organisation. If you are unsure, as the government is at this point, the whole thing should be investigated in order to get a clearer picture of what really applies. According to the investigation, the current regime poses a risk of uncertainty and uncertainty within the authority as to whether personal data may be provided between the internal activities. The investigation therefore considers that a non-disclosure clause should be included in Chapter 25. Publicity and Confidentiality Act. The Center Party shares the view that departments within the Total Defence Recruitment Authority should be able to exchange information with each other in order to ensure the smoothest possible handling of a case. This may also be necessary in some cases. If the authority is to decide for itself whether it is a breach of confidentiality, it could go so far as to require a change of law. It may take time, and this may delay the procedure. Of course, we want to avoid this. Madam President, I would like The bottom line is that it is good that the Total Defense Data Act is in place, but it is sad that the government has not chosen to investigate some things further to be completely safe in certain parts of the bill.
i-4851b58095e42577-21	Madam President, I would like Totalförsvarets recruitment agency is a fairly small but extremely important authority with a very special mission. It is the Recruiting Authority that ensures that we have manned military units by the fact that it is they who are responsible for the military deployment. It is the Recruiting Authority that sends out and compiles the patterning data. It is also the Recruiting Authority that then selects who should be called to sign up and who should be enrolled for education and where to enter. It is therefore extremely important tasks that the Authority has. Perhaps the most important task that the authority has is the responsibility for the war placement. With the alarming international situation and the need to raise our capabilities, the need to place war outside the Swedish Armed Forces has increased. If the worst were to happen, everyone should know where it should be. We'll also know where the people are most needed, and that's where they're supposed to be placed in war. Madam President, I would like In order for the Recruiting Authority to be able to carry out its task, it is necessary for them to handle sensitive information about Swedish citizens. Of Chapter 2 Section 6, the form of government shows that individuals against the general is protected against significant breaches of personal integrity if this occurs without consent and involves monitoring or mapping the individual's personal circumstances. The data collected by the Swedish Defence Service's recruitment authority is based on individuals' obligation to submit them, and the personal data are in many cases sensitive to privacy. Although the purpose is not to map the individual without being able to make decisions under the Swedish National Defence Act, it is a matter of such a mapping of the individual's personal circumstances that it constitutes an infringement of personal privacy. At the same time, this is necessary in order to provide the total defence staff. This means that the basic rules for the processing of personal data by the Swedish Defence Agency's recruitment authority need to be regulated by special law. Since 25 May 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act in Sweden have been in force. However, these provisions are not designed for the specific processing of personal data that needs to be carried out by the Swedish Defence Agency. Therefore, the processing of personal data relating to total defence obligations must be governed by a specific law. The current law on the processing of personal data on total defence obligations was introduced in 1998, and only a few changes have been made since then. The regulation therefore needs to be modernised so that the Total Defence Recruitment Authority is able to carry out its activities and process personal data effectively while ensuring the protection of the individual's personal integrity. That is why the government is now proposing that the current law on the processing of personal data on total defence obligations be repealed and that a new comprehensive defence data law be introduced. We Social Democrats welcome the new law and therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-4851b58095e42577-29	Madam President, I would like Today's debate on the protection of privacy in defence intelligence activities is the result of the fact that, almost eleven years ago, Sweden introduced a new law on signal intelligence. It was an important decision for at least two reasons. Firstly, it gave the Defence Radio Agency the opportunity to obtain information from cable traffic. In the past, you only had to listen to information in the air or in the air. Technology development has led to over 90 percent of all communications now being via cable. Had the FRA not been given the opportunity to listen to communications via cable, our ability to conduct signal intelligence activities would have been greatly weakened. It would also have meant that our knowledge of the threats, risks and vulnerabilities that exist in our neighbourhood would have deteriorated. Secondly, which was also important with the new legislation on signalling, personal integrity was strengthened by the introduction of new organisations and authorities. A defence intelligence court was set up. An Privacy Protection Council was established at the FRA. It also introduced, Madam President, what is commonly referred to as Siun, the State's inspection of defence intelligence activities. Siun reviews the activities of the FRA every year. In the previous year, 26 reviews were carried out. It's a review less than it was the year before. But one can also land in the conclusion that there is nothing to recall against the FRA's activities. Based on the report that we have to deal with today, it seems to me that the FRA's activities meet the requirements for protecting personal integrity, and I think that is urgent. Madam President, I would like Signal reconnaissance may only be directed at external threats and international terrorism, and communication in Sweden must not be followed. At present, four authorities have the right to focus signal intelligence. It is about Säpo, the Swedish Armed Forces, NOA, the National Operations Department, and the Government Office. In addition, the Swedish parliament has announced to the government that the Swedish State Inspection for Strategic Products, ISP, should also have the right to focus signal intelligence. It is probably important because ISP is working, among other things, to combat the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Two years have now passed since the announcement was made. And as I understand it, the question is still being prepared in the Government Office, so it seems that little has happened in the matter. Madam President, I would like The need for signal reconnaissance is, of course, ultimately governed by the threat that Sweden faces. According to FRA's 2019 annual report, published last week, demand for FRA's products and signal intelligence has never been greater than today. These include the problems described in the annual report with hybrid warfare conducted against Sweden but also the increased military activities in our neighbourhood. As a consequence, the Moderates provided in their shadow budget an additional allocation to the FRA of over 100 million for 2020 and an additional 200 million for the next few years. The reason for this is ultimately that we have a completely different security climate to deal with today than just a few years ago. The threats have increased and, above all, have become substantially more multidimensional. Of course, it increases the need for knowledge of what is happening in the world around us. In the light of all this, Madam President, we Moderates believe that it is time now to review the law on signalling. It has been eleven years since it was introduced. Above all, we believe that more authorities must have the opportunity to focus signal intelligence. Finally, I would like to mention two authorities for which this could be the case. First, it's about the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, MSB. In their 2019 budget base, they have asked for the possibility to focus signal intelligence for two reasons. Firstly, many people are being sent out for international action. If we could obtain signal intelligence, we could offer better protection to the staff that we are sending out to international efforts. Secondly, MSB also carries out work linked to cybersecurity. They have identified a need to focus signal intelligence but also to carry out different types of impact operations. This is one authority that could provide the opportunity to focus signal intelligence. The second authority that I think could also be urgent to provide the opportunity to focus signal intelligence is the new authority for psychological defence, which is likely to be established in the coming years. We know that we will have an investigation into that authority on 20 May. If you want to build a psychological defense and protect yourself against various types of influence operations, you need to be able to attribute and identify the source, i.e. which actors or countries are responsible for influence operations. It requires two things, both information security work and that this can be combined with signal intelligence. Madam President, I would like In the light of the fact that the legislation on signal reconnaissance has 11 years on the back and security threats have increased, we believe that there are strong reasons for reviewing it. In conclusion, Madam President, I would therefore like to support Amendment No 1.
i-4851b58095e42577-46	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 on a review of defence intelligence activities as a whole. As the representative has said, reconnaissance of signals is very important in order to ward off threats and risks, including in the case of the troops we have had. For example, it has played an important role in Afghanistan and Mali. This is legislation that has almost eleven years on its back. As has been said here, it is today the Swedish Armed Forces, the Government, Säpo and the National Operations Department that have the possibility of signal reconnaissance. But there are others who would like to have that opportunity. MSB has been mentioned. It would also be reasonable, as has been said here, to give that possibility to the psychological defence authority, which is in the pipeline. All in all, we think there is a need for a review. We have a tougher security policy situation. Then there is reason for Sweden to review the legislation, so that it becomes effective, and to review whether there is information that other authorities should also be aware of. With these words, I would like to make a request for the approval of reservation 2.
i-4851b58095e42577-51	Madam President, I would like Those of us who sat in the Riksdag in 2008, 2009 and 2010 remember how tremendous the turbulence signaling act meant for all of us who needed to take a stand on it. In recent years it has been more hot from this speaker's chair: What a good thing we dared to take that step in 2010. Where else would we be now with the security situation that applies today? These comments, which have come in recent years, underline that this is a completely different security policy situation. Since the law came into force, we have experienced the annexation of Crimea and the fighting that is still going on in Eastern Ukraine. We have a wide range of political leaders around the world who are more or less competing in unpredictability and strange ideas. We live in a very uncertain world, and it is important that this central legislation is updated in the light of the security situation. It is not just the security situation that has changed. Pål Jonson mentioned digitalisation in his speech. When the signal reconnaissance teams were introduced, 90 per cent of the communication was in cable. Today it is probably almost 100%. So it has grown in importance. In addition, we have made a wide range of changes to the sphere of government. In a few years' time, a psychological defence authority will be set up. Much else has also happened with regard to the division of responsibilities between our various authorities, including in the field of defence. With the ever-accelerating social change we have, ten years is a very long time. We have been piling and picking in this legislation, but now it is time for a broad review. I would like to express my support for reservation No 1.
i-4851b58095e42577-58	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the report on the protection of privacy in signalling in defence intelligence activities, based on the Government's annual letter. Let me emphasise that it is a good order of continuous follow-up in this area. Intelligence is crucial to Sweden's security. It is important for us to understand what is happening in the outside world. It is important to prevent and prevent the occurrence of various crises and conflicts. It is important in the international collaborations that Sweden is involved in. It is also important for us to be able to prepare for the developments ahead. It is a way of preventing and preventing conflicts and crises. I would also like to emphasise that signalling activities are a necessary and integrated part of Sweden's defence and protection against terrorism. Ultimately, it is a question of defending the democratic and civil rights on which we have built our country. Madam President, I would like There is also a balance at the other end. Of course, personal integrity must be protected, and we have a substantial regulatory framework designed to protect the personal integrity of individuals. We have regulated which authorities can collect and which signals can be collected, and we have regulated which ones can focus the pick-up. We have a court that examines requests for permission for signal reconnaissance, and we have an inspection, Siun, that checks that the intelligence activities are conducted in accordance with laws and regulations. This is clearly regulated in the current legislation. Madam President, I would like The letter deals with the activities carried out in 2018. I note that Siun has carried out 26 reviews of the 2018 activities and that none of these reviews have led to any comments or suggestions. With the closing words, I support the committee's proposal. The committee maintains the view that signalling is an important tool in the field of defence intelligence, while it is important to protect personal integrity and a well-functioning audit activity.
i-4851b58095e42577-65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The development of Swedish gender equality policy has in some parts stopped, and in other parts it is going in the wrong direction. We are now celebrating 100 years of universal and equal suffrage and have great achievements behind us to rejoice in. Free, extended childcare facilities have enabled women to participate in the labour market for many years. A free school has helped to give everyone the opportunity to build their life and future in Sweden no matter where you come from, what your parents are called or working or whether you are a girl or a boy. In some areas, however, developments have halted. Women's employment rates are still high, but we look at how many hours women work, it does not look as bright. Women take more responsibility for unpaid domestic work than men, which affects women's wage development. Women pay 23% less than men. In the long run, women also receive lower pensions because of this, 31% lower than men. Women also own half as much as men and have lower savings. In the area by area, we see that this has implications for gender equality in Sweden, and here policy must meet with relevant reforms. In other areas, we see that developments have not only stopped but are actually going in the wrong direction. For example, sexual offences against young women have increased by 360 percent over the past five years. At the same time, only 5 out of 100 rapes are cleared up. Nearly half of the young girls say that they are worried about going out late in the evening and choose another route or other route because of concerns about being subjected to crime. Another example is the development of the oppression of honour in Sweden. In a research survey, as many as 240,000, almost a quarter of a million, of Sweden's students say that they live under some form of honorary oppression or standards that limit them in their life choices and everyday lives and thus restrict their freedom to live their lives as they wish. It is therefore important that the centre located at Östergötland County Administrative Board, which has the task of gathering competence and knowledge about honorary issues, is permanent and has the opportunity to develop its activities and competence. The National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala must also become permanent and have the opportunity to develop its activities. We therefore have a number of reservations in today's report, but for time to come, I would simply like to endorse reservation No 2.
i-WhoK1sCb4H3MBE7hcdJzuf	Madam President, I would like I would ask you to accept Amendment No 7. Today, exactly 1 980 days have passed since the Swedish Government declared it to be the world's first feminist such. A good and important act of symbolism was felt by some; an unnecessary and nonsensical placard policy was held by others. Whatever your opinion of this matter, everyone can probably agree that it is a term that obliges and something you need to live up to every day. After all, words can be spoken by anyone, but actual political action is more difficult. What can also be difficult is to write a speech. I experienced this when I faced this debate with so-called writer's cramps. After a moment of panic, however, I realized that I could save the situation by dusting off my speech on women's insecurity from 2018. In this area, there has been no progress. In my speech from 2018, I referred to the National Security Survey for 2017, which was then rather bleak reading. Unfortunately, when I refer to the 2019 survey today, I do not do so in more positive terms. Uncertainty persists and is now an increasingly unwelcome feature for many more. A special feature of last year's survey is that among women in the 20 - 24 age group, 49 percent say they are afraid of being subjected to some form of sexual assault. 45 percent in the same age group report that they have taken another route to avoid being subjected to any form of abuse. We can therefore note that we have now reached a point where women actively change their own habits and behaviours in order to avoid being subjected to crime. Women feel so insecure that they themselves choose to limit their own freedom to outdoor movement. In other words, we have ended up in a situation where the behaviour patterns and conditions of young men and girls are being challenged and are now no longer equal. Then, of course, it is also worth mentioning that even young guys' outdoor conditions are not always great, although they absolutely cannot be compared to girls' vulnerability in this particular case. Madam President, I would like I have to say that I miss a major discussion on this aspect of the issue of gender equality, and I do not think I am the only one. I do not think that I am alone in experiencing that these kinds of questions often have to stand back in favour of other issues. That, of course, is not something you can blame only the government for, although I personally had hoped and expected more of it. It can sometimes be felt that young women should accept the situation and learn to live with it. When the question has been raised by other parties, the government's response has often not been agitated and angry at the very situation of insecurity itself, but rather agitated by the fact that the issue has been raised at all. A clear example of this was when Christian Democrats leader Ebba Busch Thor highlighted the issue of girls' insecurity in Uppsala. The reaction was not to show sympathy with the girls who experienced insecurity and to show understanding and anger about the situation. Instead, the anger was directed at Ebba Busch Thor herself because she had the nerve to bring this up. The Minister for Equality even went so far as to accuse Ebba Busch Thor of blacking out and exaggerating. Finally, she called Ebba Busch Thor a Swedish hater. Madam President, I would like If it is Sweden's hatred to describe girls' insecurity without beautiful paintings, what is it that as a feminist government does not even want to acknowledge its existence at all? On a number of occasions I have highlighted a number of things that could be done in order to start work on greater security, both in this House and in other contexts. Among other things, it is about better outdoor lighting in particularly unsafe and dark places. It's about more camera surveillance to help identify suspects. It's about more patrolling policemen in the streets and squares to restore security. And it's about tightening the penalties for those individuals who get caught so they can't put another person at risk in the near future. Of course, this is only the beginning of solving the situation of insecurity, but somewhere at least we have to start. For I refuse to accept a situation where young girls are to accept that this is what it looks like – that one should accept that when outdoors, insecurity will constantly be reminded and that responsibility is placed on you rather than where it actually belongs. No one should ever have to feel any gratitude for not having suffered a crime. I will continue to point this out in the debate today and all other days, and then the government will have to call me exactly what it wants.
i-4851b58095e42577-86	Madam President, I would like Sweden signed and ratified the Cerd over 45 years ago. Since then, follow-ups have been carried out by the UN, where Sweden has been clearly criticised for its lack of collection of statistics for anti-discrimination purposes. The last review that was made came as late as 11 May 2018. In its review, the Committee strongly recommends Sweden to introduce equality data as a method. Statistically assured information on how different groups experience discrimination and inequality collected on the basis of the principles of anonymity, voluntaryity and self-identification is a prerequisite for effective anti-discrimination work and is already being used in many countries. Equality data is also an important method for investigating racial profiling as well as hate crime on a racist basis. It is time for Sweden to heed the Committee's recommendation and start the process of collecting equality data in order to be able to put in place strong measures against racism and for non-discrimination. Equality data or statistics – what is it? Well, Madam President, it is information on how different grounds of discrimination such as religion, skin colour or ethnicity are distributed in the population and how they interact with each other. The purpose of equality data is to investigate the existence and effects of discrimination. Madam President, I would like Two thirds of the world's states collect equality data. Because Sweden currently lacks such statistics, the work against discrimination and inequality is made more difficult. The UN, the EU and the Council of Europe have regularly criticised Sweden for not collecting relevant knowledge and systematic statistics on the situation of different minorities. The criticism is based on a number of conventions and directives calling for equality data, such as the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the EU Directive implementing the 21st principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin. Madam President, I would like The question of whether Sweden should introduce equality data has been investigated by the Discrimination Ombudsman in consultation with the Swedish Data Protection Authority, Statistics Sweden and the Swedish Public Health Agency. The conclusion is that equality data can and should be introduced and practiced more systematically in Sweden as well. This should be done partly because of the international assemblies that Sweden is part of and the commitments that Sweden has signed up to in these contexts, partly because both international agreements and Swedish legislation regarding the protection of sensitive personal data allow this as long as it is done with the aim of combating discrimination and promoting equality and as long as those consulted give their consent and that this is insured. Madam President, I would like Sweden is today characterised by growing gaps. The segregation and inequality are most evident in relation to the grounds of ethnicity, national origin, skin colour, religion and other beliefs. If we are to combat discrimination and inequality in society, we need to know about the vulnerability of different groups. Equality data can give us more of just such knowledge. Madam President, I would like It is no longer good to be the best in the class in the world of laws and rhetoric. The protection and rights granted to the various minorities on paper are now completely impossible to fulfil, measure and map as well as to follow up over time with figures. The total lack of statistics on five of the seven grounds for discrimination and the five national minorities means that the general policy of equality and the overall policy of anti-discrimination, which is, of course, aimed at smoothing the gap and combating injustice, are currently in the dark. This means that at best it risks becoming more or less inefficient or even counterproductive at worst. Madam President, I would like How do we know that there is a pay gap between men and women, as we have heard earlier today? And how do we know if the pay gap increases or decreases? We know this because we have clear figures showing it. Although we still have a long way to go, Sweden is today one of the most equal countries in the world. We measure differences between women's and men's wages, and we measure gender distribution in workplaces. None of this would have been possible if we did not allocate statistics by gender. It would be naive to think that there is no discrimination in the form of homophobia, racism, Islamophobia and so on. However, because we do not have statistics on these grounds, it is very difficult to strengthen. Madam President, I would like With this speech, I would like to endorse reservation 22 of the report 7 by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on equality and anti-discrimination. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish the President, the Members and the audience a continued nice, first tossdan in mass.
i-4851b58095e42577-99	Madam President, I would like We will soon have to congratulate each other on International Women's Day on 8 March. Therefore, perhaps it is appropriate that we take this debate where gender issues are on the agenda. Unfortunately, we see a very negative development in very many areas. That is why I shall highlight some of the issues that we Christian Democrats view as particularly serious. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 7, which is about permanentating the national mission against honour-related violence and repression at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland. In Sweden, gender equality work has come a long way, as we can also see in the compilation by the EIGE, the EU Institute for Gender Equality. There, Sweden comes at the top when it comes to good parameters for gender equality. Through the media debate, we know that violence against women is still increasing in many areas, and the situation is far from satisfactory. Violence against women, violence in close relationships and honour-related violence and oppression are something that affects women, but it also affects our society as a whole. We also have a bit more to go in terms of equal pay for equal work, even though the pay gap has narrowed. Women also continue to take a greater share of the responsibility for home and children, although men are becoming increasingly active. These are some of the challenges ahead. Madam President, I would like Violence in close relationships is something that still reaps some 20 lives each year. That is unacceptable. Many women are forced to go to our shelters, and they live under threat for long periods of time. This year the women's shelters get more money, which is good. Like the government, we thought they'd get that. At the same time, it turns out that the municipalities are cutting money because of this. This means that municipalities do not buy places at on-call housing. In some way, therefore, women's shelters are still affected, which is serious. This should be addressed by the government. Uppsala has a National Centre for Women's Peace. They have a clinical activity for women who have been subjected to violence, including sexual violence of some kind. The reception is linked to Uppsala University Hospital, Uppsala University Hospital, which means that they have unique and in-depth expertise. They organise training courses for staff in both municipalities and regions, and they run the national women's peace line where you can call anonymously for help. Madam President, I would like On December 30th, 204 calls were received to Kvinnofridslinjen. It shows the great challenge that we still have in terms of violence against women. Unfortunately, the government has chosen to cut the basic grant to the National Centre for Women's Peace by SEK 10 million per year, which is serious. Instead, they must now apply for different project funds in order to maintain their activities. We Christian Democrats have, of course, stated earlier in the budget debate that we want to add these SEK 10 million and have done so in our shadow budget. Madam President, I would like That is exactly what the government said we should get away from when a new equality authority was set up, that is, that we should get away from the projects. But now the National Centre for Women's Peace can request project funding from the Gender Equality Agency for activities that previously received a basic grant. Madam President, I would like This shows that the so-called feminist government is getting a little lost. They believe that creating an authority will solve all women's problems. But it has turned out to be just the opposite. It is precisely the individually vulnerable women who get less activity for the money. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats have some reservations in this report. However, one important issue that I really want to emphasise here, and which I believe is one of the biggest challenges in the field of gender equality now, is honour-related violence and repression. We have over 100 000 young people who say that they live under some kind of honour-related oppression. This is, of course, totally unacceptable in a modern and democratic society such as Sweden. We have proposed the creation of a Forced Marriage Unit according to the British model. The government has said that one might imagine. And now some other proposals have been made to seize passports so that children cannot be taken away. That is good, but I think we need the whole concept that exists in Britain. That is why we continue to nag about this here in Parliament, and we have also allocated money to it in our shadow budget. We believe that the national competence centre in Östergötland, which is intended to combat honour-related violence and repression, must be permanent. At first, the government wanted to shut it down. Now it's got a grace period. But now the majority of the committee does not want to say that this activity in Östergötland should be permanent, which we think is very serious. It is a pity that the government is turning a blind eye to reality and is not saying right now that it wants this important activity in Östergötland to be permanent. I would like to mention some of the reservations we have in the area of discrimination. One is to strengthen parents' rights in terms of discrimination at work. Unfortunately, we are still seeing redundancies, and there are a lot of complaints about it. It is sad that this type of discrimination has increased over the years. We believe that a survey is needed in relation to the disadvantage of parents and pregnant women in working life. In another of our reservations, we believe that the government ignores Christianophobic crimes in the national plan against racism and hate crime adopted in 2016. Of course, we believe that all hate crimes should be prosecuted, regardless of religion. But Brå has been able to show that the crisis-phobic crimes have increased significantly. Of course, addressing it in this plan would not reduce the seriousness of Islamic or anti-Semitic crimes. Madam President, I would like Finally, we have a reservation on the complexity of the issue of discrimination and freedom of religion. This applies in particular to the re-debated issue of a comprehensive veil. In my opinion, it is important to distinguish between veil and complete veil, where you do not show your face. The Christian Democrats believe that freedom of religion is a central issue in a democracy. However, some elements may be so impeding when it comes to human interaction that they cannot be considered protected by the grounds of discrimination. Refusing to show your face is one of those things. The majority of committees say that it is complex and that the government can continue to monitor developments. We believe that the government should take the initiative to clarify the legislation so that there is no doubt whatsoever whether or not employers may require employees to show their face.
i-4851b58095e42577-117	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation 6 in the report, which deals with the further identification of honour-related violence and repression. Madam President, I would like We are debating gender equality today. There is a lot to say about gender equality because Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries to live in according to our constitutions and in theory. But in reality by 2020 Swedish society is not very equal to live in. For those women, men, girls and boys who are affected every day by the injustice that it entails, it is no help to say that the injustice before was even greater. Even today, women's average living income is SEK 3 million less than men's. Only over a quarter of parental leave is still taken by men. It is still the norm that it is the woman who goes down to work part-time if it is required to cope with everyday life as a parent of young children. Still, boys' school scores lag behind girls with the consequences this has for their future prospects in life. It is still mainly women who, after a long working life, receive the least in retirement and are forced to live under difficult conditions. The basis for inequality in society is that we are still treated very differently depending on the gender we have, what expectations there are of us and what demands we face. And prejudice about what we can or can't be is still strongly linked to gender. These gender structures are established from the cradle and the choice of the light blue or pink blanket to the wage negotiation and the treatment of long-term care in the autumn of the age. Prejudice is also reflected in politics. There are also politicians in this Assembly who want to have completely different rules of the game for women-dominated professions and who prevent many women with their counterproductive proposals when it comes to the possibility of starting their own business or developing individually. We must reverse that order, in favour of a meritocratic and free society where it is every person's dreams, work and abilities that determine who you are and how you are met. That, Madam President, is the liberal feminist view of equality. As a liberal and feminist, it is important to have several thoughts in your head at the same time. We must have the capacity to debate gender issues faced by women in the labour market, in society and in private life. But we must also have the ability to take the fight against medieval and unequal traditions that risk backing the band to a time when the place for Sweden's women was at the stove. It is about the fight against honour-related violence and repression. It affects tens of thousands of girls, women, boys and men who, because of the honorary thinking of their families, families and surroundings, live unfree lives. But it is also about the fight against violence in close relationships. It is the worst violation of women's human rights and is a disgrace to our democracy. There is nothing to limit a person's freedom as much as violence does. Therefore, violence against women is not only an issue of equality but also a question of democracy. Without mentioning the vulnerability of women who are exposed to violence, the struggle for equality becomes empty words. As a liberal and feminist, I am proud that my party has stood at the front of the barricades and acted as a blowtorch, not least in the fight against honour-related violence and repression. It is one of the greatest freedom issues of our time. All parties have an obligation to take a stand against it. Madam President, I would like For me, it is very simple, and that should be a matter of course for everyone in this House. This struggle must be about the equal value of all people. It must be about the right of all people to live free lives in one of the world's most developed democracies. This struggle must be about the right of all people to make free choices for their future. Madam President, I would like Let us go back to violence against women. Think for yourself of the partner, mother, sister or friend who is subjected to repeated violence and how difficult she has to defend herself. She risks her financial independence because she can't get out of bed and go to work. She hides bruises and often has an excuse for her surroundings. She does it to live with shame but also because of the fear of being beaten again or hearing how useless she is. She cannot be the parent of her children because the children are forced to care for their fragile mother. She is ashamed that she does not have power or finances so that she can free herself from violence. We have to ask ourselves how it is that almost half of all women in Sweden, one of the world's most equal countries, have been subjected to violence in some form after their 15th birthday. When we talk about violence in close relationships, we must never forget that behind the statistics and behind each figure there is a living person who is extremely afflicted and fragile and cries for help. It is women who have had their human rights violated. We politicians have a duty to ensure that violence against women becomes a memory only if we are serious about Sweden's future being a developed and civilised democracy based on the rule of law principle of protecting the rights of all citizens. Therefore, we can never, or in any context, say that we are done with gender equality. As long as there are injustices, as long as the laws do not apply to all women in our country, as long as women are subjected to violence in a close relationship, as long as girls are deprived of the freedom to grow up on equal terms as all other girls in Sweden, as long as we have parallel societies and as long as there are strangers in our country who take the right to dictate living conditions to others, we can never say in any context that we are done with equality. I'd like to return to our reservation, No. 6. A great deal has been done, not least in the last year, in terms of honour-related violence and repression. Many new legislative changes will come into force, in particular on 1 July this year. But much remains to be done. In particular, it is about continuing the work to ensure that all children and young people, women and men who live non-free lives know that Swedish society also stands up for their rights. But we will also ensure that the authorities and businesses where there are professionals who come into daily contact with the honored have adequate knowledge so that they can give the right help to those who live in forgotten Sweden. Madam President, I would like With this I would like to thank myself.
i-LY4mRSaK24V3oW6Gw94HxS	An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister of State Anna Hallberg and Minister of Labour Eva Nordmark. Minister for Social Affairs Lena Hallengren answers both general policy questions and questions within her own area of responsibility.
i-4851b58095e42577-132	Madam President, I would like In recent days we have seen an alarming increase in covid-19 around the world and an increasing number of cases of infected also in Sweden. Public concern is increasing, and I believe that many have experienced a somewhat confusing situation regarding the lack of information from government and authorities. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the health professionals who work hard and do good work throughout the country. Madam President, I would like We are not yet in an emergency. At the same time, we must focus on the problems that exist. These are significant regional differences and preparations, but also about access to vital medicines such as insulin. All of this calls for strong national leadership, including the need for clear information.
i-WXfQ2EXECjdqXbWgsps8h7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, for the question! I guess this is the first in the series of covid-19 questions during Question Time because this is something that concerns us all very much. There is a great deal of commitment, but there is also the need for information and the willingness to obtain information. It may not be that the anxiety increases without the worry remaining. It has been so for a long time, and so it is when the situation is perceived as a little uncertain. It is all the more important that the government has today decided to ensure that the authorities, both the National Board of Health and the Public Health Authority, feel confident that they have the necessary resources and that additional funds are made. The resource contribution should be used to maintain good preparedness and ensure that not least the Public Health Agency can expand its communication efforts, in addition to targeted information to different groups, because the need is very large. The National Board of Health and Welfare should have the opportunity to assist the regions, for example when it comes to training and training for staff who may need to be picked up.
i-4851b58095e42577-139	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I am a little worried that the Government's response does not show any clarity. I think the anxiety is increasing. The starting point should be that crisis management is in the relevant authority, but also the state and government need to take further action. This has become clear, among other things, when it comes to Sweden's schools.
i-4851b58095e42577-143	Madam President, I would like Camilla Waltersson Grönvall has nothing to worry about. The state is both the government and its authorities, and the overall emergency preparedness is extensive. Now a specific question was asked about schools, and I will be able to answer it. The recommendations from the Swedish Public Health Agency are clear: If you have been in a hazardous area and feel that you have the slightest symptoms, you should not go to school or work, but you should stay at home, call 1177 and follow the care advice you receive. If you have no symptoms, you can go to both school and work. This Recommendation continues to apply.
i-4851b58095e42577-146	Madam President, I would like I saw in the newspaper today that Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson likened Ulf Kristersson to the matador in Tjuren Ferdinand. It's a little funny, because every time I think about the government's migration policy, it's another Swedish Christmas classic that pops up in my head: Musse Mouse's trailer. Who's driving? The Minister for Migration seems quite satisfied that it is Erdo中an who is holding the wheel and dictating Swedish asylum policy, but, Madam President, many Swedes are genuinely worried when they see the pictures from Turkey and Greece. Many impoverished municipalities are concerned, and I think we should take their concerns seriously. My question is: can the Minister for Migration promise our citizens that the government will close the border in time this time, if the walls of Greece do not hold?
i-4851b58095e42577-149	Madam President, I would like I think Kristersson and the matador were a rather apt illustration. The level of aggregation is about there in terms of the way he manages politics and the opposition role right now. The banderilists got angry, the picadors got even more angry, but the most angry of them all was Ulf Kristersson. Having said that, I would like to give a pass to SD here. What I saw yesterday was that the Swedish Democrats embarrassed Sweden. What does Jonas Andersson think the border police in Greece thought when it suddenly came down a figure from Sweden and was going to hand out flyers and pose in front of cameras? He had also signed with the Swedish people, just as it is the Swedish Democrats who represent the Swedish people in this situation. You do not represent the Swedish people, Jonas Andersson, but you represent your own party and nothing else. I can guarantee Jonas Andersson that we will stick to the order we have had, that is, have full control of migration to Sweden.
i-4851b58095e42577-152	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. When the Minister speaks, I see the cartoon trailer porpoises down the mountain to finally hook up to the car where the Minister for Migration sits and says: "That's right, it went well calmly and safely!" I believe that many municipalities today can recognize that they have been sitting in this trailer since 2015, and they are terrified to make the same trip again. I think it should be quite easy to answer this question: is the Minister prepared to give them the promise to close the border on time this time?
i-4851b58095e42577-155	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson knows that we have had border controls since 2015 in Sweden, and this is an important part of being able to have the control we need over migration. What would lead to chaos at this stage is if we were to do what the Swedish Democrats want, that is, to lift the agreement with Turkey. The SD is against this agreement. That would mean perhaps 1, 2 or 3 million refugees from Turkey who would go to the Greek border. That would be the absolute worst-- that would be really chaos. How would the trailer tumble down then?
i-4851b58095e42577-157	Madam President, I would like I too have a question concerning migration policy, but perhaps with a different focus. We've seen pictures from the border in Greece. These are children who have been affected by smoke grenades. We have seen pictures of people who have been pushed on at the risk of their lives. We have seen pictures of coastal artillery that have shot near small boats on their way to the coast. How does the Minister of Migration believe that, within the framework of the EU, we can ensure that serious crimes are not committed against migrants and possibly refugees fleeing from war zones via Turkey?
i-4851b58095e42577-160	Madam President, I would like After all, it was an extraordinary meeting of the EU migration ministers last night that I attended. There we adopted a statement which, among other things, expressed our support for Greece in this situation, which strongly criticised Turkey for using migrants as a means of trying to push forward its own political agenda and also stressed the importance of maintaining international law. Among other things, it is about the people who come to the border being handled in a good and righteous way. One cannot, for example, run boats or attack asylum seekers in the way we have seen on some pictures. It was very important that we received strong wording in the statement yesterday. Then I think it will perhaps calm down a little now. There is a picture that hundreds of thousands of people have been present. That's not true. It is perhaps a few thousand at the individual border crossing. It is therefore much calmer now than it was before.
i-4851b58095e42577-162	Madam President, I would like There is no one, I would like to emphasise, who believes that the situation is somehow simple, either for those who flee their homes or for those who are faced with this situation. Nor is the European Union the cause of the situation. But how will the government follow this up so that, if the situation changes or worsens, the EU can guarantee that such crimes cannot occur?
i-4851b58095e42577-163	Madam President, I would like We have had Swedish staff in place on these very borders for a few days, both from the General Consulate in Istanbul and from the Embassy in Ankara, who have been able to see for themselves what the situation is right now. We have also been asked by Frontex to assist with Swedish personnel. If we get it in place, we have Swedish eyes and ears that will see what happens all the time. I can assure Martin Ådahl that we take respect for international regulations very seriously and will follow this day by day.
i-4851b58095e42577-166	Madam President, I would like Recently, the Erdo Government decided no longer to comply with its part of the shameful agreement concluded by Turkey and the EU. Trusting and liaising with Erdo has been a dangerous and unsuccessful strategy. Last Sunday the Greek Government announced that no asylum applications will be received in the coming month. The decision was motivated by deterrence at the country's borders to stop refugees. The next day, the first asylum seeker from Syria was shot to death by Greek border police. At the same time, a boat capsized on the Greek island of Lesbos. A child drowned at that event. Violence against refugees at the border is a direct consequence of the EU's and Sweden's failed policy. Instead of living up to international law and sharing responsibility for providing protection for people on the run, all political force has been put into closing the borders.
i-4851b58095e42577-170	Madam President, I would like I think most people understand that this is a rather difficult dilemma purely ethically. When the situation is as it is, when Turkey uses refugees in this way to push forward its own political agenda, it is trying to reduce the level of conflict. That is precisely why all diplomatic contacts are now taking place between the EU on the one hand and Turkey on the other, in order to seek a solution. We cannot manoeuvre in such a way that we suddenly have a situation where perhaps 1, 2 or 3 million people go to the border with Greece to seek asylum in Greece. Greece is a country of 10 million inhabitants and has no chance of dealing with such a situation. That is why we need to look at this in a pragmatic but also humane way. And then it must be understood, Madam President, that Turkey is an actor with whom one cannot escape, but must in some way cooperate. Just tearing down that cooperation would pose enormous problems, not least for Greece.
i-4851b58095e42577-172	Madam President, I would like It is the violence at the border that must now be brought to an end quickly. You don't send the army on people who run from war and seek shelter. When one Member State violates the right of asylum and abuse in the way that has happened here, it is the responsibility of the whole Union. Get rid of the military and stand up for the right of asylum for real! Sweden must lead in order to obtain a dignified reception and redistribute to countries that stand up for the right of asylum and international commitments. In this respect, the Minister for Migration must lead a willing coalition of countries that want to take the right of asylum seriously and actually reallocate.
i-4851b58095e42577-174	Madam President, I would like There are probably few countries that have pushed harder than Sweden to create a distribution mechanism in the EU. Unfortunately, this has been blocked by some countries, so we do not have one. This means that we must try to resolve the situation in some other way. Then we can never ever tolerate violence or violations of international regulations. That is why it was important that we wrote in the statement last night as clearly as we did that all actors must now refrain from doing so and ensure that they comply with international law and regulations.
i-4851b58095e42577-176	Madam President, I would like I think the Attorney General already knows why I'm standing here again. It was a month or so since we met here last time, but the reason is the same. On 15 March 2019 the Minister of Justice promised an investigation into how we can secure our Swedish farmers against animal rights activists. Next week, it's a year ago. On 26 November 2019, I asked the Minister of Justice a written question about the launch of this investigation. Now I've been notified of delayed response eight times. The latest offer is that the answer will come on March 11. I'm not hopeful. If an ordinary citizen, such as an entrepreneur, delivers such a late response to a state authority as the Minister of Justice here does, it could have very serious consequences for the citizen. This approach leads to an even greater decline in confidence in politicians in general and governments in particular. What is even more serious, however, is that it affects our Swedish farmers. Does the Minister of Justice consider this to be a defensible handling of the instrument in writing?
i-4851b58095e42577-180	Madam President, I would like It may be that sometimes you wait a little bit to be able to say a little more when things are in place. Everyone knows that the Ministry of Justice has had a lot to do this year, not least when it came to setting up investigations and presenting proposals and legislative proposals. As a result, we have simply had to postpone certain things. We too have limited resources. As soon as we arrive at a final result, we will of course inform the Riksdag that the process is under way. I am also keen to have this issue resolved. This does not mean, however, that we have done nothing about the issue itself during the year, on the contrary. Among other things, we have given a special reporting mission to the police to report back to the government how to work against this particular type of crime. We have changed the camera surveillance law so that it is now easier to have camera surveillance in these locations – etc.
i-4851b58095e42577-183	Madam President, I would like Then I sincerely hope that the Minister will come up with an answer that is not a completely watered-down non-answer. For many farmers who hesitate between developing and phasing out, the issue of the activist is what can actually make the scales weigh on precisely decommissioning. It's bad if the Minister of Justice doesn't understand the resignation that the peasantry feels. This is about their everyday lives. It's about their families. It is about their livelihood, Madam President– yes, it is actually about the whole of Sweden's livelihood.
i-4851b58095e42577-185	Madam President, I would like I know that very well. I have met with the LRF a number of times in the matter. And it is not that we have done nothing, quite the opposite. The special mission to the police is there, and I also mentioned the Camera Surveillance Act, which makes it easier to guard your property than it was before. However, the very issue of criminal law needs to be investigated in particular. It should be remembered that this is an old legislation, dating from the 1960s, and it should be modernised on this point, among other things. We will return to the Riksdag when we have finished producing directives.
i-4851b58095e42577-188	Madam President, I would like I have a question about young people's addiction. According to the report School Students' Drug Habits, every 20 secondary school students have at some point used painkillers without doctor's prescription, even though it requires a prescription. Tramadol is becoming increasingly common here. It's extremely addictive, related to heroin. Twelve years ago it was very rare, but now it is in many places almost the most common drug, says the addiction care. Dependent care tells of children with severe withdrawal and children who suffer from seizures after using Tramadol, often illegally imported. More and more young people are also getting caught up in polydrug use.
i-8Xv6spkdwgVHtiqioSwya6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lina Nordquist, for the question! As Lina Nordquist is well informed because we are working together on this, in 2020 we are developing a new ANDT strategy, i.e. on alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco. I have said on previous occasions that there will be a particular focus on the particular n. We know that smoking is decreasing and the debut age for drinking alcohol is rising, i.e. you try alcohol more and more later and smoke less and less. In fact, we do not see that drugs are being used instead, but we do not see the same positive developments and we do have to do so. Customs and many other actors are concerned about the fact that they are actually seizing a lot of drugs that, of course, have a buyer somewhere. So we need to look at this further. I imagine that the ANDT strategy is important, among other things, for concerted action there and new measures.
i-4851b58095e42577-193	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As the Government says, customs warns against this. A few years ago, about 300 000 tablets were seized in one year, and now it is up to 1 million each year for the last four years. The clock is ticking fast, and I don't know if it's a warning bell or a bomb. Something needs to be done, especially for the children and young people who are being alerted by addiction services and who customs believe are part of an opioid epidemic.
i-4851b58095e42577-195	Madam President, I would like Continued support for information-based organisations is an important element, as is ensuring that social services are well equipped. Many times social services meet young people quite early and can take concerns seriously and through preventive work prevent young people from testing drugs at all and be able to offer alternatives that prevent them from getting caught up in addiction. I really want to reconnect with the ANDT strategy. We need to take a strong stance and see this in a unified perspective.
i-4851b58095e42577-198	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson and is about how the government continues to work on the item in the January Labour Immigration Agreement. We Social Democrats have always been responsible for regulated labour migration, where the needs of the labour market and the influence of the parties have been key elements. At the 2008 changes of the Alliance, many, not least our trade union comrades, expressed great concern. Unfortunately, in the common situation of the authorities on organised crime, for example, we can see that this concern was justified. In the January agreement there is a paragraph on so-called competence expulsions that concludes with a sentence that today's rules on labour immigration should be protected. The last sentence continues to arouse concern, not least among our trade unionists. In light of the fact that the picture of labour crime is becoming increasingly clearer in society, I wonder how the government's work is progressing on the basis of the wording of the January agreement.
i-4851b58095e42577-201	Madam President, I would like We believe that Sweden needs labour migration, but there must be order and order. The concern has been that part of the system has been used for wage dumping, cheating, falsification and exploitation of those who come here. We cannot accept that; the system cannot be used. The fact that it looks like this was an effect of the legislation that the Moderates pushed through almost ten years ago, but they did not care about it. We care about it. We want to make sure that this is rectified. I would say that the best way to safeguard the system is precisely to clean out this kind of degeneracy and exploitation. That is why we have just set up a study to review the labour immigration system. In addition to the skills assessments, we are also looking at concrete measures to combat cheating and falsification, and also at introducing new requirements, such as the supply requirements for relatives, to address this. There are many other proposals that will also come from the investigation that we have just set up.
i-4851b58095e42577-204	Madam President, I would like What does the Minister of Migration want to say to our trade unionists who are concerned about how our cooperation parties interpret this wording in the January Agreement?
i-4851b58095e42577-205	Madam President, I would like I would like to say that it is a strength of cooperation that we have been able to develop cooperation not only to deal with the skills demonstrations – we should look at what we can do about them – but also to address new issues. When we see a report from, for example, the police and the other law enforcement authorities that this is a huge problem, the four January parties are taking on the task of trying to solve this. It's a sign of strength.
i-4851b58095e42577-206	Madam President, I would like At the moment, a change is taking place in the view of hunting and wild animals. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal for hunting times, squirrels are to be hunted again, not because squirrels cause problems or damage, but because hunters practice by shooting them. The motivation is that all game should be seen as a resource, and hunting should not in any way be inhibited. The burden of proof is thus reversed: In order to shoot animals, no justification is required, but to prevent animals being pushed requires strong arguments. It goes directly against the international agreement that we have signed and which says that the existence of all species should be protected. This is very much a matter of valuation. I wonder where Minister Lena Hallengren stands in this. Are all animals only a resource for humans, or do they have their own worth of existence?
i-4851b58095e42577-208	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rebecka Le Moine, for the question. It's on a level where I don't know the details, and I apologize for that. Of course, all hunting generally needs to be done with responsibility. How to develop this policy then is about what the Environmental Protection Agency, which is the authority that regulates this, comes up with. You can also turn there. If there is interest from Rebecka Le Moine to ask many more supplementary questions, I recommend that she turn to the Ministry of Industry and Minister Jennie Nilsson.
i-4851b58095e42577-210	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. At the moment there is also a trophy hunt on Sweden's most popular predators, namely the locat. Almost 10 percent of the population of this also red-listed species are to be shot. The hunt is not focused on individuals who are problematic or whose genetic condition we know something about, but it is pushed out of control. I wonder if the Government thinks it is justifiable to pursue trophy hunting on red-listed and protected species in Sweden.
i-4851b58095e42577-213	Madam President, I would like Both red-listed and protected species are possible to hunt only under controlled conditions. I guess it's not just me who doesn't think trophy hunting is hunting under controlled conditions.
i-4851b58095e42577-215	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark. The government has proposed the reintroduction of the free year, now renamed as a development year. It is a measure that has been dismissed by most trade union organisations. LO notes, among other things, that it is hitting those who are outside the labour market and, above all, against women. We have a majority in Parliament which has said that it rejects the Government's proposal for the year of development and the costs it entails. Madam President, I would like I have also noticed that the spokesperson of the Green Party, Per Bolund, has made it clear that this will come back as a proposal from the government. I would like assurances from the Minister for Labour that it will respect Parliament's will and not propose the introduction of the year of development. Can the Minister for Labour give such a message?
i-4851b58095e42577-219	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question. The Government naturally respects the decision made by the Riksdag. This means, among other things, that the bill that we would have presented to the Riksdag in March and that would have entered into force in October, if changes in unemployment insurance due to the development period, will not be presented to Parliament. There's the guarantee, Mats! However, we will of course have to come back to what will come in future budgets. The Government continues to believe that development time is an important tool to ensure a good transition and also secure the supply of skills in the Swedish labour market.
i-4851b58095e42577-223	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Morgan Johansson. Today, the so-called feminist government accepts polygamy in Sweden. The legislative proposal proposed by the Mångtogassavhandlingen suggests that polygamy will remain in the country for the foreseeable future. Multiple marriages are oppressive for women and should not occur anywhere. Therefore, I would like to ask the Government: is it the government's position to allow the polygamy that already exists in Sweden to continue to exist, without the date for their withdrawal?
i-4851b58095e42577-225	Madam President, I would like Sara Gille forgot to mention that the investigation proposal that has been referred puts an end to the registration of new polygamy. This is the first time that Sweden has made such a regulation. There has been such an opening for many years, which I think has been wrong. Let's get it right. Then the question is where to land in the end on some transitional issues. The inquiry proposal is therefore for referral, and when we get the consultation document we will land in that part. However, it should be borne in mind that there are other interests in this part as well – if we break up existing marriages, the person who entered the marriage loses the right of inheritance, for example. So there are other interests that must be taken into account. However, we will take a final position when the referral is received.
i-4851b58095e42577-227	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hallengren. Due to developments in the coronavirus and covid ‐ 19, we will have a great demand for medical equipment for health care, such as protective equipment. There is an EU procurement process, but it is a little unclear when it should be completed. The regions have not built up large stocks, and a number of regions have a supplier that is not at its peak, if you say so. It feels a little shaky. Madam President, I would like Would it not be good to have a national emergency stock of medical supplies and medicines that can be used in times of crisis? We can't rely on the market. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that the government and the authorities have done a great job on this big and difficult issue – all according to the rule book. I would also like to thank all the staff who are working hard.
i-4851b58095e42577-231	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the question, and I think it is nice that many people pay tribute to health professionals. They really deserve it, because they work and work. Nor is it that we are in any way out of this crisis. Karin Rågsjö points to a very important issue – and, perhaps I dare say, bottleneck – in the situation we find ourselves in when it comes to medical supplies. Each region must, of course, begin to look at its readiness. Everyone knows that Swedish health care's preparedness, and crisis preparedness in general, is about anyone who does something in peacetime also doing it in crisis time. However, well aware of this, it is of course a question of the need for the National Board of Health and Welfare to be helpful in terms of the possibility of procurement and buying-in. The fact that we in Sweden decided to participate in European procurement is about trying to equip ourselves. However, as I have said in many contexts: there are limited medical supplies, because production has decreased in some countries. Demand is also very high. I am absolutely convinced that we will continue the discussion on how to strengthen perhaps both production and stocks.
i-4851b58095e42577-234	Madam President, I would like We would never accept that a cancer patient was denied treatment, but people with addiction are often thrown out of the care when they have a relapse – although relapse is part of the disease picture. We can't have that. I am therefore pleased that this House has decided that dependent care should be improved. A united parliament decided yesterday that drug policy should remain restrictive but that it should be evaluated in order to ensure that it is compatible with the requirements of evidence-based care, proven experience and harm minimisation. A united parliament also decided last May that a principal should be responsible for the care of people suffering from both addiction and other mental illness. Today's shared responsibility between social services and health care causes people to fall between the chairs and get hurt. These two decisions go hand in hand, and continued political agreement is important. I therefore wonder whether the Minister for Social Affairs would consider setting up a parliamentary committee to implement Parliament's will in relation to addiction care.
i-RQP9JM3PD4tu6nKKHF7JgL	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Pia Steensland! When it comes to substance abuse care, I think it is good that we continue along the path of actually working with harm minimisation. That's what the exchange of language and that nurses all over the country can use Naloxon to lift overdoses are actually aimed at. I am also very pleased that there is a united committee that wants to continue to work on drug treatment with that very intention, and I very much support it. We will set up an investigation that reviews the headship, exactly in accordance with Parliament's wishes. Let me come back to the precise forms of how this is to be done! It is, of course, important that it is long-term and that we have a great deal of political agreement. That would be a good thing, but here in the speaker's chair today, I am not locking myself in to the shapes. When it comes to the whole substance abuse care system, it is clear that no matter how you twist and turn it, there will be more than one actor who meets a person with an addiction. They must find the best possible way to cooperate and cooperate, and we shall make it easier for them.
i-4851b58095e42577-239	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Anna Hallberg a few questions. The Government decided on Sweden's export and investment strategy at the end of last year. It has five strategic objectives, one of which is that more SMEs should export. The minister is now doing a tour to increase regional export promotion throughout the country. My questions to the Minister are: What have you taken to heart when you have travelled in Sweden, and how can you spread the good examples in the country? What can the government do to do that later?
i-WgFQrLTyagaTtKbSj3cpve	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Monica Haider. Yes, I now travel around Sweden and try to implement the new export and investment strategy. During the visits I have made so far, I have received clear signals that we really need to do what we have said in the strategy, that is, link the national strategy with regional and local cooperation. We also need to take advantage of the regional differences, skills and ecosystems that exist throughout the country. So there is not a strategy that is suitable for the whole country, but we need to have a number of different – with a comprehensive framework. Another thing that comes out very clearly is the connection to infrastructure. That is something we really need to highlight. If we want to make all of Sweden grow and also attract investors to the whole of Sweden, we need to have a clear strategy for how to expand our infrastructure, and this government has. It is therefore a clear signal.
i-4851b58095e42577-244	Madam President, I would like The situation at the Greek border is extremely serious, and the focus must, of course, be on supporting Greece in keeping order at the EU's external border. At the same time, Sweden must be ready for a new wave of refugees. There I am very concerned that the Social Democrats, together with other parties, are prepared to open up to more immigration when the temporary law expires already next summer. The current situation in Turkey and Greece shows that this is quite the wrong way to go. Therefore, I would like to ask Minister for Migration Morgan Johansson: What is the readiness of the government and the authorities in the event that Greece and the EU are unable to keep the border and Sweden is facing a new wave of refugees?
i-4851b58095e42577-246	Madam President, I would like We're not going back to that situation. What distinguishes the current situation from the situation in 2015 is that we then had one of Europe's most generous refugee legislations. It was the legacy of the Moderates. Now we have one of the strictest refugee legislations in the EU. Then we had no border controls and no medical age assessments. Now we have border controls both in Sweden and throughout Europe, and we have medical age assessments. So there are many different situations. I can assure Maria Stenergard that I will ensure that we do not release the control we have taken. Much has also happened in these years; when the Moderates ruled, Sweden received 12% of all asylum seekers who came to the EU, and today the figure is 3%. The distribution thus looks much better than it did then. I intend to ensure that the legislation that will succeed the temporary law is sustainable in the long term and, I hope, has the widest possible support in this House. I hope the Moderates can be constructive in that part too.
i-4851b58095e42577-248	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Lena Hallengren. The government has pointed out on several occasions how important it is for EU Member States to act jointly in order to limit the spread of the coronavirus. Germany will now introduce a new entry register requiring passengers arriving by train or flight from high-risk areas to provide their contact details in order to facilitate the detection of infection. In addition, travellers from South Korea, Japan, Italy and Iran will have to undergo a health check on arrival in Germany. All asylum seekers will also be tested. In view of the government's earlier statement on how important it is for the EU to act together, my question to the Government is: will the government work to take similar measures as it has taken in Germany?
i-4851b58095e42577-250	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Per Ramhorn, for the question! I take every opportunity and every opportunity I get to sort out different issues. Of course we should act together. By that I mean that we should take part in analysis, have good cooperation and exchange experiences, knowledge and analyses with the other countries. Our authorities are already working together on a regular basis. Sweden also has special cooperation with the Nordic countries, as we may be more similar in terms of health care systems and how we work. But when Germany does something specific, it does not mean that Europe does the same. Of course, different countries will take different measures depending on the situation there, the size of the country, the health system, the travel patterns of the population and the knowledge they are sitting on. In Sweden we have noticed that the infection here comes from those who have had sports holidays in the Italian Alps. This is not the situation in Spain or other countries. Each country must ensure that it is equipped and prepared for what is the probable scenario, even if we are also working together.
i-4851b58095e42577-254	Madam President, I would like My question will go to Morgan Johansson. I've had the privilege of working for 15 to 20 years as a security guard and a security guard. So I also have many good friends who are security guards. The Government's 34-point programme stresses the importance of having security officers with the police in order to tackle the heavier gang crime. I personally think that's a good thing. As local councillor and municipal politician, I have been involved in deciding to have security officers at strategic locations in Uddevalla, and I have seen good results of this. There is only one small catch, and that is what my question is about. From 1 March onwards, the prices of education and training will be increased. For example, basic education has previously cost 7,780 but will now cost 22,875. The price for further education is increased from SEK 1 395 to SEK 8 000. There's a little problem here. Guardians are often employed by large corporations. Orderkeepers are often self-employed who work on weekends and other things. So they are not full-time staff. This will be expensive.
i-4851b58095e42577-256	Madam President, I would like This is a matter for Minister of Home Affairs Mikael Damberg, but I can say overall that our principled position is that in many cases security guards are a very important complement to the police. Now it is worth remembering that the number of police officers is now increasing very quickly. I believe that in just one year we have had 400 more police officers in Sweden. In the coming years, all the police officers who have attended the training places we have expanded. The orderkeepers are an important complement to them, and it is important to ensure that the conditions for the security guards are good. That is why the Minister for the Interior has appointed a review of the rules for security officers. I cannot answer whether the issue of fees is included in this section, but I am sure that, when one looks at how security guards, security guards and the whole system should work, the issue of staff supply will also be addressed in the future. Of course, we are watching this issue very closely.
i-4851b58095e42577-259	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark. Sweden has a strong labour market with a high employment rate. Two thirds of the employment growth has occurred in recent years among foreign born children. It's a good development. We believe that everyone who can work should work. On the other hand, we see that the employment rate of women born abroad is still lower than that of many others on the labour market. The statistics show that foreign-born women are less engaged in employment and are more inactive than domestic women. We know that the government has done a lot to deal with the problem, including through efforts within SFI, Swedish from day one and efforts for parental leave. The ambition has been high, but we need to do more.
i-4851b58095e42577-262	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. For us Social Democrats, jobs always come first. It's almost International Women's Day. Having a job and what it means with your own livelihood and the freedom you get is basically the most important issue of gender equality. We are not satisfied with the employment rate of women born abroad. We also know that these women do not receive the same support from the Employment Service. The Government has therefore clearly indicated in the regulatory letter to the Authority that there should be equal support for women and men, especially women born abroad. We are also now investing in extra services and some other important measures, such as the intensive year that is soon to come into place. It should also be permeated by a gender perspective.
i-4851b58095e42577-265	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Hallberg about the coronavirus and the effects on Swedish companies and the Swedish economy. Hopefully we in Sweden can avoid extremely serious and major problems, but they cannot be excluded. Swedish companies are already affected in terms of personnel, logistics, deliveries and other areas. I know that the government met companies last week and has talked about proposals on short-term work. The Industry Committee has also invited Minister Baylan and Business Sweden to a meeting next week to get a deeper presentation on the impact on business and economics. The Government is responsible for issues such as investment promotion and export. I would like to ask the following question: What measures, in addition to short-term work, does the government plan for and what are being considered to deal with the effects of the coronavirus on the Swedish economy and Swedish companies?
i-4851b58095e42577-268	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the question! Yes, Minister Baylan and I met a number of companies last week. During my trips in recent weeks around Sweden, I have also met a number of companies and have, of course, raised this issue. What is primarily needed is short-term work, so that employees can be kept in the event of a rapid decline. But other measures will certainly also be needed. Therefore, the government is very close to the companies to listen. So far, we have seen that large companies are able to cope with the decline and possible effects of the Corona virus relatively well. It is the small and medium-sized enterprises that we believe can be particularly vulnerable. They also express this themselves. These are, above all, logistics chains. Now that they are broken, the production chains are also broken. As I said, we are very close to the issue, and we also believe that we may well need to take further action in the future. What measures it will be too early to say. The industry itself must be prepared to inform about this.
i-4851b58095e42577-272	Madam President, I would like Sweden has an alarmingly high drug-related mortality rate. It is even the second highest in the EU, and it is four times the Union average. These are figures that really should make us in Sweden be self-critical and to reconsider and develop the drugs policy pursued. Happily, only yesterday, a united parliament decided to evaluate the current drugs policy. In order to reduce mortality, we obviously need to work preventively so that addiction decreases, but Sweden also needs to develop addiction care and work much more actively with harm reduction measures. Our neighbouring country, Norway, has successfully and very deliberately worked to reduce drug-related mortality. Among other things, this has been done through a specific national overdose strategy. Is the Minister of Social Affairs prepared to initiate a corresponding Swedish strategy?
i-4851b58095e42577-275	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Hultberg, who raises a very important issue! I am pleased that we have a policy on substance abuse and on reducing mortality and the impact on people who are in an addiction. Now the question became very specific at the end when it was about a harm-reducing strategy. But I will come back to what I mentioned earlier. In the ANDT strategy, the n – drugs – is very important. There are many different actors, not just health care, who need to come in to ensure that problems are prevented, detected early and harm minimisated. We also have a challenge in ensuring that we have evidence-based substance abuse care. The treatments that work will be continued. Those who don't work, we shouldn't go on. We need more evidence in this area. I'm really prepared to contribute to that. The committee initiative is very good. The focus on substance abuse care is, I think, important, because that is precisely what leads to a reduction in mortality.
i-4851b58095e42577-278	Madam President, I would like The think tank Australian Strategic Policy Institute released this weekend a report entitled Uyghurs for sale. It shows that Muslims held in political detention camps in Xinjiang are now being sent out as forced workers to the rest of China. The report shows that there have been at least 80 000 forced workers since 2017. 27 factories are identified in nine provinces. In addition, 83 global companies are listed whose products are manufactured by former camp prisoners. The list includes two Swedish companies, Electrolux and H & M. For every prisoner who is forced to work, a type of employment agency is paid for over $2.50 (U.S.). So, in reality, it is a matter of slave trade. Forced work is seen as part of retraining.
i-4851b58095e42577-280	Madam President, I would like I thank David Josefsson for the question. It is extremely important for the government and for me as Foreign Trade Minister to constantly ensure that the trade we conduct is in line with human rights. We launched quite recently, just over a month ago, a platform for international sustainable business. Several of the entrepreneurs also took part in a seminar, including the companies mentioned by the honourable Member. This is crucial for us to have credibility in our foreign trade. Trade is also a platform for the export of Sweden's values, namely values of human rights. There are Swedish companies very far ahead. It is, of course, totally unacceptable to have production in Swedish companies with the type of circumstances described. There the government is at the forefront of dialogue with companies, including in the framework that we have developed together with the business community and which forms this platform. This is a top priority for me as Minister of Foreign Trade.
i-4851b58095e42577-283	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Morgan Johansson. A few weeks ago, a united parliament decided that we must strengthen the rights and protection of rightholders in connection with the terrible events that have taken place in Malmö, where people's lives have been completely destroyed by criminals who have hijacked and plundered housing rights associations. I know that the Minister is committed to this issue and thinks it is very important. I also know that the government agrees that action needs to be taken. My question to Morgan Johansson is: What is the future of the process, and is there any thought about a timetable?
i-4851b58095e42577-286	Madam President, I would like The example referred to by Ola Möller concerns a situation in which the right-of-occupancy association has been almost kidnapped by capital interests, which can then mismanage the association in different ways. It is important to ensure that there is a high level of protection for rightholders. It is people who have often invested perhaps millions of dollars in an apartment, and suddenly the association is governed in such a way that their capital is undermined. There is an investigation proposal to strengthen the possibilities for associations to ultimately involve an auditor, and we will go forward with that. But I think we need to make further efforts beyond that. We will probably have to review the regulatory framework as such. We take this very seriously. We will ensure that the regulations are strengthened to protect the right-holders.
i-4851b58095e42577-288	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. Do you know that we have an opportunity to eradicate cervical cancer in Sweden within five years? Mortal cancer is the most common form of cancer in the world. One reason is HPV infection. Fortunately, however, it can be prevented by vaccines. 550 women are affected in Sweden every year, 150 women die. In Sweden we have a screening programme with high participation and a uniquely comprehensive national quality register. What is needed to eradicate cervical cancer within five years is only SEK 25 million each year and the right support for the municipalities. Is the Government prepared to work for this?
i-4851b58095e42577-292	Madam President, I would like I thank Ulrika Heindorff for this question. I think it is good that we are talking about vaccines at all. It is incredibly important to use the vaccines that exist to both reduce the risk of illness and protect the population. In this case, it is above all a matter of protecting oneself and the groups that could be affected by cervical cancer. Not long ago, vaccination against HPV became part of the general vaccination programme. Now it's also about boys. These are big and important steps. The government always acts on the advice of the Public Health Agency, which is the expert authority, before we change the vaccination programmes. It has taken time, because one must always be sure that the vaccination is really effective. In this case, there is no longer any doubt that it is. That is why we have introduced the general vaccination programme. We are simply acting on the advice of the Public Health Agency. So far we have not received any request or proposal from the Public Health Agency.
i-4851b58095e42577-295	Madam President, I would like I read about the immigration minister's last statement in Expressen. The Minister wants to lower the tone of the migration debate by calling the leader of the opposition Ulf Kristersson the matador in Tjuren Ferdinand, this because Ulf is frustrated by the government's shortcomings. But who is Ferdinand the bull? Is it Morgan Johansson himself? Or is it Stefan Löfven who wants to sit under the cork oak without action? We hear how the Social Democrats talk about a tight migration policy, but we see how it is the Green Party that governs the government. Are you going to take on your responsibilities? Our door is still open. What is happening in the world right now demands that we take our joint responsibility. We gather everyone and cooperate with everyone.
i-4851b58095e42577-297	Madam President, I would like It seems that illustration took a turn. This is usually the case with parables that people generally feel that there is probably an ounce of truth in, so it was probably not completely wrong. I want to try to achieve a situation where we have a long-term sustainable migration policy that works both under pressure and when fewer asylum seekers come. For us to be able to achieve this, it requires broad support in the Riksdag. That is why I appointed the Migration Policy Committee, which is now working. I am convinced that in August this committee will come up with proposals that will provide a broad basis for this. I look forward to the Moderates being constructive in that discussion. We have every reason, I think, to try to gather as many people as possible behind such a policy.
i-4851b58095e42577-300	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Hallberg. In June, the WTO will have its 12th Ministerial Nur-Sultan in Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan. As is well known, the WTO does not function at all as intended, but the WTO is incredibly important to Sweden, which is such an export-dependent nation. Unfortunately, the previous ministerial conference in Buenos Aires was in many ways disappointing, as it did not lead to the results that we had hoped for. My question to the Government is: What initiatives has the Government taken – or planned for – to enable Sweden to contribute to the success of the WTO Conference in June or at least to take steps in the right direction?
i-EXiUXAzJMQef6cJqHuLiRP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa Eriksson, for the question! It is, of course, an absolutely central issue for me as Minister for Foreign Trade that we have a multilateral regulatory framework that works. The WTO is in deep crisis. Sweden as an export-dependent and free trade-friendly nation needs to take the initiative at this stage. This is particularly true now that Britain is disappearing from the EU. I have taken the initiative to ask five colleagues from other countries to come here. It eats Czech Republic, Germany, Finland, Denmark and the Netherlands. We had a meeting here two weeks ago. There are four issues that we will press ahead with the next ministerial conference. It is trade and climate and to produce a climate declaration. It's trade and equality. It is a question of the status of developing countries. It is a question of e-commerce, that is, free data flows. This is something that is extremely important for Sweden as a digitalised nation and where we are far ahead. In any of these areas, I very much hope that we will achieve success. The WTO must now succeed at the next Ministerial Conference. This is crucial for the WTO.
i-4851b58095e42577-306	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. Yesterday was the world day of obesity, obesity. Obesity, obesity, is a serious chronic disease that is responsible for every tenth year of life lost in Sweden. Over 1 million Swedes live with obesity, and 300 000 people live with severe obesity. More than a third of this group have obesity-related sequelae such as cardiovascular diseases and diabetes. Obesity is also a serious risk factor for getting cancer. Of course, there is a lot of prevention at community level to prevent the development of overweight and obesity. But for those who already live with the disease, care must exist and be equal, and it is not. According to data from the National Board of Health and Welfare, only one in four persons received specialist care in 2017 for severe obesity. Did you know that one in four clinics in Sweden does not treat children with obesity? Today, medical care spends 15 times as much resources on treating obesity related diseases as on treating the disease itself. For most of the obesity sequelae, there are national guidelines and recommendations to ensure evidence-based and equal care for all. However, there are no national guidelines to treat the basic disease itself.
i-BFFgk8yGesCBAV6w8ejDN1	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulrika Jörgensen, for the question! Whatever part of the care we are talking about, it is clear that it should be equal and accessible. It is important that we at the national level ensure that there are guidelines. It's about how to prioritise and use resources. But it is also about health care programmes, which I believe are often sought after. How to treat? How do we ensure that the knowledge that exists in a part of the country or perhaps in a few places is really available everywhere, so that it does not matter where in the country you live and who you are? It is very good that Ulrika Jörgensen highlights the issue of obesity and also child obesity. It is not an issue that has received the attention it deserves. I think it's possible to equate with many other women's diseases. Now I know that obesity is certainly not just a woman's disease. But there is some comparison with that when it comes to endometriosis, fibromyalgia and many other diseases where one has had to fight for them to be accepted and respected as diseases. It's about moving on. This is an area where there is more to be done.
i-4851b58095e42577-317	Madam President, I would like I want to ask Morgan Johansson my question. BID in Sofielund in Malmö – accommodation, integration and participation – has won the first prize in a European competition as best crime prevention work. What has been done is that they have collaborated throughout the local community. Unserious property landlords have been thrown away, and instead serious property managers have done a great deal of work. This has been done in a long-term process. It is the opposite of short-term projects. The research shows that it has had an effect. It has gone from about fifty gang criminals to just a handful. People still live here. In the past, people didn't like it and moved. Now they live there, take care of their area and thrive. My question is: how does the government view this way of working? Can you support it and spread it to more areas?
i-4851b58095e42577-321	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that I certainly share Hillevi Larsson's view of how the work has been carried out in Sofielund. I have visited it on several occasions, and I know what a good result they have had. They have been able to break the recruitment to gang crime and have been able to steer up and remove a large part of the drug sales that have been. This has been done together in cooperation with property owners, the police, social services and other actors in the municipality. It is a hugely important and good example of how that work can be carried out. It is not the only thing in Sweden. It is enough to go to Sergels torg, where we have City in collaboration in much the same way with private actors who work to increase security. In our programme to prevent crime, Together against crime, we highlight this particular type of BID collaboration. We intend to continue this work and to give the positive examples as widely as we can. It's a good way to gather the whole community against crime.
i-4851b58095e42577-325	Madam President, I would like It cannot be the case that the government must continue to ignore the fact that Swedish children are being taken out of the country to be married away or genitally stymied. Despite worrying reports, the government has not even found out how many children never came back after summer holidays in 2019. I refuse to accept that the Swedish Government is not taking decisive action. I refuse to accept that Swedish girls live under slave-like conditions. I refuse to accept that on Sunday's International Women's Day, the Social Democrats should be allowed to beat their chests while a Social Democratic Government is unable to act in this respect.
i-4851b58095e42577-328	Madam President, I would like Noria Manouchi must have missed the fact that just a few weeks ago we had a press conference in which we presented a new bill precisely to tackle this kind of honour-related crime. There we propose increased opportunities to increase the penalties for this type of crime, but also concrete possibilities to stop the export of children to different countries in order to marry them away or to stifle them. There is now a concrete legislative proposal on the table. That is more than any moderate government has ever done, Madam President. This will be followed up later, Madam President, with further penalties and measures in that part. We have just strengthened the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in such a way that you can expand your opportunities to, for example, work concretely to get these children back home. I say that this government is doing more to combat honour-related crime than any other government has.
i-4851b58095e42577-330	Madam President, I would like I am going to talk today about the part of the report that deals with the issue of gender equality. My party colleague Marianne Pettersson will later in her speech address those parts of the report that concern the issues of discrimination. Sweden has the world's first feminist government. This means that gender equality is crucial for the government's priorities in decision-making and allocation of resources. A feminist government ensures that the gender perspective is included in the policy design on a broad front, both in national and international work. That women and men should have the same power to shape society and their own lives is a human right and a question of democracy and justice. Gender mainstreaming combined with specific gender equality measures is the government's main strategy for achieving gender equality policy objectives. The fact that equality is an issue for everyone, both men and women, is crucial for us to be able to move forward and develop our democracy and create real justice. Madam President, I would like In the report, it is gratifying to see that, despite some reservations, there seems to be a fairly large consensus in the Swedish Parliament that gender equality is important and should be further developed. But that hasn't always been the case – it's also important to establish. And it is not self-evident that it will always remain so. Unfortunately, in many parts of our world, there are examples of backwardness and of democracy and justice, and especially gender equality, being called into question and pushed back. Let us not let this happen in Sweden! With regard to men's violence against women and violence in close relations, I would like to highlight the objective of gender equality policy that men's violence against women should cease. According to this, women and men and girls and boys have the same right and the possibility of physical integrity. Preventing and combating men's violence against women is a comprehensive and long-term challenge that requires stability in working forms and structures. The Government's national strategy to prevent men's violence against women, which took effect on 1 January 2017, is an important and powerful measure. In our opinion, the motion seeking to introduce a zero vision of men's violence against women is in line with the objective of gender equality policy that men's violence against women should cease. We cannot stress enough the importance of this interim objective and the measures the government is working on to help achieve it. With regard to NCK, the National Centre for Women's Peace, I would like to emphasise that NCK is an important resource in the work on the national strategy to prevent violence against women by men. This is why NCK will continue to act as a resource in support of education managers at universities on issues related to men's violence against women and violence in close relationships. Therefore, at least SEK 4 million of the funds received by the Equality Agency in accordance with the budget proposal for 2020 will also be allocated to NCK and other relevant institutions. Regarding the clinical part, the government in the budget bill has allocated NOK 10 million to strengthen and develop the work on the national support telephone for victims of violence, which remains at NCK. The continued interaction of the Gender Equality Agency with the NCK and other actors involved in gender equality policy is important in the implementation of the national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women. Madam President, I would like The fight against honour-related violence and repression is one of our most important gender equality issues. I note that the substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party – the January agreement called – stresses that honour-related crime and repression should be prevented, prevented and punished. During Question Time just now, we were able to hear the Minister of Justice highlight the work that the government is doing. The January agreement states, among other things, that competence in honour-related violence will increase and that there will be a clear perspective on children's rights in the work against honour repression. The rules for expulsion in honour crimes and hate crimes should be strengthened under the agreement, and the protection of those affected by honour-related crime should be strengthened. Just as the Minister of Justice highlighted in the last speech of Question Time, a joint press conference was held a few weeks ago, where Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson and Liberal Party Secretary Juno Blom addressed the work against honour-related violence and repression. In particular, I would like to emphasise that, with regard to honour-related violence and repression, the county administrative boards will cooperate with the county administrative board of Östergötland County, which has the national task of preventing and combating honour-related violence and repression. Madam President, I would like It is also important to stress that the government has decided to strengthen state grants to the non-profit women's and girls' shelters. Women's and girls' shelters working with a special focus on honor-related violence and oppression can benefit from the grants. All in all, it can be said that the work in progress on honour-related violence and repression is essentially in line with several of the motion proposals. The January Agreement also expresses high political ambitions in this area. As I have mentioned before, the County Administrative Board of Östergötland County has the government's mission to prevent and combat honour-related violence and oppression. There, a special competence team has been developed to coordinate and support the work against honour-related violence. I cannot stress enough the importance of the work of the national competence team. And that activity, Madam President, will be permanent. With regard to the overall objective of Swedish gender equality policy, namely that women and men should have the same power to shape society and their own lives, it is important to establish that gender equality is essentially a question of justice and democracy. An equal society gives people the opportunity to develop without being restricted by their gender. Although progress towards an equal society is progressing, there is still a great deal of work to be done, and there is a need for continued long-term and clear governance of gender equality policies. This year, as in previous years, the Swedish Democrats object to the objectives of the gender equality policy and the policy pursued by the government in this area. To meet the Swedish Democrats would mean turning the clock back for what has been achieved in Sweden in the field of gender equality. When it comes to the Swedish Democrats' critical attitude towards an active gender equality policy, one can only note that if the Swedish Democrats gain influence, gender equality will suffer. Gender mainstreaming is a crucial tool in the work of an equal society and in achieving gender equality policy objectives. The work to promote women's entrepreneurship, which the government actively supports through Almi and the Swedish Agency for Growth, is also an important part of achieving the goals. Much has been done, Madam President, but much remains to be done. The feminist government is working hard with the cooperation parties to meet the goals set. Having said that, I would like to call for the motion to be rejected and for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-WWY8JoRhjUT1tz95PuJa3W	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Patrik Björck, for your speech on the basis of the text of the Committee majority. Patrik Björck talks about resources. It's very important. I would therefore like to come back to the issues I raised in my speech. The national competence centre at the County Administrative Board of Östergötland has a mission to combat honour-related violence and oppression. Patrik Björck says that it is important and that this continues to be an important task. I have tried to find out that it will be permanent, but it has not been possible to get that answer. The majority of committees takes this issue into account once again. I just wonder: why do you fit in on this issue? Then I have a small comment on the action plan on men's violence against women. We fully agree that it will end. But what we reacted to when the action plan came was the negligation of same-sex relationships. We are not going to turn the clock back, but we are going to turn it forward and see what reality looks like today. Many live in same-sex relationships, and there is also violence in close relationships. How does Patrik Björck see this more clearly in the action plan?
i-4851b58095e42577-356	Madam President, I would like I don't know if I expressed myself unclear. I thought I said very clearly that the business would be permanent. I can, of course, repeat it just in case: we think it is important, and we think it should be permanent. There should be no doubt whatsoever on that point. We have the objectives of gender equality policy. We also have an announcement that the government is working on with regard to these objectives. I guess that's what the government's doing right now. They are working on the announcement that came last autumn. There are no plans to make any changes other than what the Riksdag has decided.
i-4851b58095e42577-358	Madam President, I would like This is going to be very interesting. I had questions on the committee. Then I got some answers from the department. The location of the national competence team has not yet been decided. We have thought it should be placed in Östergötland, where this competence has been built up. But this report does not respond to that. There is also no answer from the Department to that question. What Patrik Björck now stands here and promises is actually quite important. If it is to be permanent in Östergötland, it is very welcome. In such cases, we would not have had to have a reservation on that in the report. Another issue I raised in my speech was the National Centre for Women's Peace. I was recently visiting there. Their basic funding has been reduced by 10 million. I assume that money has been spent on the Equality Agency. Now they're going to look for money from there. They say that this has complicated them. They've got a cut in funding. They must apply for project funding to carry out activities that they have previously been able to carry out with the basic grant. How can this be to make it easier – to remove projects and consider that it should go through the Gender Equality Agency? Why make such a mistake for the National Centre for Women's Peace?
i-4851b58095e42577-361	Madam President, I would like No, we don't think we're screwing up. We believe that we coordinate, strengthen and sharpen gender equality policy through the Gender Equality Agency. That is the whole idea – to get things together and get these policies coordinated and strengthened. It's not a problem. We have slightly different views on this. There has been a debate in this House before. We believe that we strengthened the work on gender equality when, as it were, we saved the agency in the supplementary budget. It's very important to understand that. Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, we also think that the activities of the NCK are important. We're providing resources. The telephone line should be able to develop, for example, and resources will be provided through this year's budget. However, parts of the work will instead be done by the Equality Agency. Other parts that remain with NCK will receive the necessary resources.
i-4851b58095e42577-364	Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. Generations of courageous women have fought for the rights that we who live today can take for granted. But no feminist victories have come of themselves. Hard and urgent work has been behind every reform and every law. Neither women's voting rights, child care nor parental insurance have come about on their own, but as a result of many people's common struggle for women's rights. Those of us who live today need to carry that battle with us into the future. For what it tells us is not only how far we have come but also how far we have left and what responsibility lies in carrying this forward. The fact that we live in one of the world's most equal countries does not mean that Sweden is completely equal – far from it. Your circumstances in life are still limited by where you come from, the sex you have and how you identify. These are differences that have long been backed up by laws, beliefs and outdated norms. These are norms that in many respects oppress and restrict and take away the freedom they should be able to take for granted. Madam President, I would like As I said, we live in one of the world's most equal countries. But here in Sweden, on average, one woman is murdered a month. Each individual case is a life that society should have managed to save. Together they are a tragedy that is completely unworthy of our Sweden. Every woman's life must be defended. Sometimes when the failure becomes apparent and you read in the newspaper that yet another woman has been murdered, it may seem hopeless, but society is not faced with the violence that women are subjected to. The objective of gender equality policy that men's violence against women should cease is crucial to the work done by the government. Preventing and combating the violence inflicted on women by men is a major task and challenge requiring long-term and structured forms of work. The Government's national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women, which came into force on 1 January 2017, is one in a series of important measures that together represent precisely the long-term work. Much has been done, and more is to be expected. But we know that it is not enough for us to stand in this House and act by creating new laws and regulations. In order for us to be able to capture all women living in violent relationships, civil society is also central. From north to south, women's, trans-, and girls' shelters do an invaluable job that saves lives every day. I am very grateful for that. Politically, it is up to all of us to work together. It is about twisting and turning every stone to strengthen women's shelters and tightening up legislation on sexual violence and violence in close relationships and working at all levels for a more equal society. As fellow human beings, it is up to all of us to dare to see, dare to ask and dare to act. When violence takes place behind closed doors, we must become better at looking in through the windows and putting the blame where it belongs – with the man who strikes. Everything else is to betray every woman who gets her freedom taken away. Madam President, I would like This year, 18 years have passed since Fadime Sahindal was murdered. Everyone knew the threat she was facing. Society should have been able to protect her, but yet her father managed to murder her. It has been over 18 years, and it is with sadness that I note that society has not been able to do enough to put an end to the violence and oppression that take place in the name of honour. In connection with the anniversary of Fadime's murder, I listened to young girls who today live under the same type of violence and oppression that Fadime did 18 years ago. These were stories that touched on many levels. But the overall feeling that remains is anger – anger that we have not done enough, anger that society still today allows girls and LGBT people not to grow up and create their own life in freedom and anger over those who still feel entitled to sit over other people's right to a free life. I am pleased that there is broad political support for combating all forms of honour-related violence and repression. The January Agreement stresses that priority should be given to the fight against this type of crime. Anyone who strikes, threatens or oppresses should know that society stands together behind the victims. It is together that we must prevent and prevent, but also investigate and punish. The guilt and ultimate responsibility should always be placed where it belongs – with those who use their power and position to oppress. The January agreement states, among other things, that competence in honor-related violence should increase and that there should be a clear perspective on children's rights in the work against honour repression. The protection of the victim shall be strengthened. We are also looking at whether acts of honour-related violence and repression are to be dealt with differently in criminal matters. Much has been done. Even more is planned, but even more must be done. Every girl and woman and every LGBT person who is prevented from living a free life is a failure for our entire society. The repression, threats and violence must once again be consigned to history. Madam President, I would like The fight for equality goes hand in hand with the fight against all forms of discrimination, as the debate we have here today shows. The society we create together must be a society for all, never just for a few. The rights of LGBT people must be constantly strengthened in words and actions. When Pride flags are hauled, there are many of us who together lift them again. The pride flag is so much more than just colors on a piece of fabric. It stands more clearly than anything else for the equal value of all people and for all the rights that are ours to defend. As little place as the withdrawal of LGBT people's rights in our Sweden has racism and xenophobia. It must never be normalised and accepted, whether it is expressed in the Swedish parliament or through racist obstructions that are being brought forward on the open street. Already in 2016, the government decided to take a concerted approach to the issue. Now new funds are being raised, because racism must never be normalised. Madam President, I would like We know that the road to an equal and equal society is long, but we also know that progress is being made. Just earlier today, Sweden's Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Lindhagen announced that the government has appointed a commission for equal living income. The Commission will make proposals that will increase economic equality between women and men in the long term. Equal pay is crucial for us to achieve real equality and give everyone the same power to shape society and their own lives. Every day feminist progress is made in the great and the small. By what we do today and by what generations before us have accomplished, we have come a long way. Together we must continue to move forward. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-4851b58095e42577-381	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Janine Alm Ericson, for the post! There are many things on which all parties agree. Nobody says you're in favour of men's violence against women and so on. As Janine Alm Ericson raised precisely the issues of LGBT and discrimination, I wonder how she views what I mentioned earlier about your action plan in its title having men's violence against women. How can it be applied to same-sex relationships? I think it is a little discriminatory against that group in the action plan, so I would just like to hear how Janine Alm Ericson views it. I've been very committed to issues of honour violence, and I think Janine Alm Ericson is too. In this context, I know that the organization Never forget Pela and Fadime often raises the issue of the veil. To wear a veil may be a religious expression, but there is nothing I understand in the writing of a complete veil. That is why we have thought that the government, and the Green Party is a government party, should raise the issue of freedom of religion versus the comprehensive veil where the face is not shown. I wonder a little how the honourable Member sees it. Of course, freedom of religion is central, but can we not see that this is a problem of discrimination and that it should be made clear that, for example, it is okay for an employer to say no to not showing his face?
i-4851b58095e42577-386	Madam President, I would like The veil is something that we have up for discussion quite regularly, which I think is good. It's a question that's incredibly difficult. As Mrs Pethrus says, the issue lies in the borderland between religious freedom and discrimination, while at the same time we see how a society must work for everyone. I cannot therefore give a direct answer as to how to act forward, whether or not to include it. I see how the debate goes in society, and I welcome it being conducted because there will then be several different points of view. Of course, I find it extremely problematic if women and girls are forced to wear a veil. At the same time, we can also say that it is a religious expression that falls under religious freedom. So I want us to continue to talk about this issue, but I also see that it is not so easy or black and white. When it comes to the strategy talking about men's violence against women, one can of course discuss whether to change the name of it. Now it was a strategy that got that name. If you look at the general problem, we see, unfortunately, or after all, that for the most part it is men who beat women. We will try to avoid generalizing, but sometimes it can clarify things in a certain way. On the other hand, it should really be stressed at every opportunity that this naturally also involves other violence in close relationships, and we often raise that too.
i-4851b58095e42577-391	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. How can I interpret what is stated in the report by the majority of committees? It is said that it is complex and that the government should follow developments. What kind of development to follow, I wonder. I think it feels like the development is already here and now. The question is whether, as a majority and government party, you intend to do something concrete to highlight this issue. I also have a question on the basis of what the Socialist Member, Patrik Björck, said about the fact that it is now going to be permanent in Östergötland. As far as the national competence team is concerned, I have received the answer that it investigates and evaluates and will come back to the issue of placement. It would therefore be interesting to hear whether Janine Alm Ericson can answer the question of whether there will be a placement in Östergötland. I would also like to hear something that I forgot to ask Patrik Björck about, and it is about what I have been running and about which I have also been given more information precisely through Never forget Pela and Fadime. In the UK they have Forced Marriage Unit. How does the Green Party view the creation of such a unit? We think it could be below the NOA at first and work with the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, for example, both to prevent girls from being taken out – usually it is girls – to other countries for forced marriages but also to take measures to bring home girls who may have been taken away.
i-4851b58095e42577-395	Madam President, I would like When it comes to a complete veil, I and the Green Party think that you should be free to wear whatever clothes you want. On the other hand, it may not be appropriate in all professions or situations in society. I think what you mean when you say you want to look at it a little bit is that when these different principles are set against each other, we will also see notifications. The anti-discrimination ombudsman and other institutions in society will take it up, and then we will get a picture of what legislation, discrimination and religious freedom say. I think that's what's behind it. Unfortunately, when it comes to permanent activity in Östergötland, I have no more information than what Mrs Pethrus has. I hope there can be such a message. You look at it, and I wonder if it was not in May or June that the investigation or investigation should be completed. Decisions shall be taken thereafter. I have no information that the decision has already been taken, but it is not said that it cannot be done. How other countries act when children are brought out for forced marriage is interesting. Today you look at how to strengthen that work. Today it is under consular control. We have strengthened the work, but we also do international monitoring to see how the UK, among other things, is doing it. That is a good thing, and it may then be that the work that is already being done is being developed. It is clear that it should not happen, and if it has happened then these children should return home to Sweden.
i-4851b58095e42577-400	Madam President, I would like I noted in the report that the Green Party, like the Left Party, also wants equality data. But you choose not to highlight that reservation. Am I supposed to understand that the Green Party is going to vote in favour of our reservation?
i-4851b58095e42577-401	Madam President, I would like No, the honourable Member should not expect that. However, it is clear that this is a debate that needs to be held. There are clear arguments for introducing equality data, and there are clear arguments against it. As a party, we have so far considered, and still believe, that this data may pose a greater risk than the opportunities that come with it. On the other hand, we believe that there is some relevance to the arguments put forward in the speaker's chair. But this is an issue that shares the minority groups. If you have been exposed to a list based on your background, you may feel more hesitant. We must accept that. I think it is clear from our motion that we want to see whether the issue can be further investigated. We want more knowledge and information before we move on.
i-4851b58095e42577-405	Madam President, I would like That's not really how I read the motion, and that's not really how I perceive several environmentalists' arguments. But thank you for your answer. That's all I wanted to know.
i-4851b58095e42577-407	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. The principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination are fundamental human rights. Everyone has the right to a life without discrimination. At all levels of society, we need to work on the grounds of discrimination, i.e. gender, transgender identity or expression, ethnicity, religion or other belief, disability, sexual orientation and age. Discrimination is deeply problematic, and we must work actively to combat discrimination. Discrimination affects people's everyday lives, economics and living conditions. Discrimination can take many different forms. This can range from not being given the same chances as other job seekers due to gender or disability to offensive comments about your sexual orientation or ethnic origin. Discrimination is to be treated differently. Someone is treated worse than anyone else, and the treatment is related to one of the grounds for discrimination in the law. The Discrimination Act aims to counteract actual negative discrimination. Despite the fact that we are writing in 2020 and there has been work for a long time to achieve economic equality, there are still different opportunities for women and men to participate and develop in the work, for example. The positive thing is that active work is being done on gender equality measures at work and related issues. Among other things, the Government presented in December 2017 an action plan for equal living income. The Government has also reinforced the Ombudsman for Discrimination's administrative appropriations in order for the Authority to strengthen its supervisory activities. The mandate of the Discrimination Ombudsman includes combating disadvantage under the Parental Leave Act, and according to the annual report, the Authority has pursued a number of objectives on disadvantage in working life. Madam President, I would like The terms and conditions for older people in the labour market were strengthened with the amendment in 2017 when the employer was given an increased obligation to work with active measures. Another step was taken when the government presented a delegation for the promotion of older workers in August 2018. The delegation will promote a more inclusive and age-independent approach to working life. It should contribute with increased knowledge of research into older people's opportunities and also propose measures to combat age discrimination. The increase in mental illness in the population is a serious problem. I note that the January Agreement contains measures to combat mental illness. People with mental illness are a complex area that requires long-term work. Part of this could be the enhanced protection against discrimination in terms of lack of accessibility introduced in 2018. This change will hopefully create greater accessibility in society for people with mental ill health, among other things. Another reason for being discriminated against is that you have a different ethnic origin. This must be resisted. Racism, xenophobia and intolerance must be combated. The January agreement states that the work against violent extremism, anti-Ziganism, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia and all other forms of racism should be strengthened. During this autumn's budget discussion, the national plan against racism and similar forms of hostility and hate crime was strengthened. Madam President, I would like The role of the Equality Ombudsman is to exercise supervision. But has that supervision had the intended effect? In order to get a response to this, the Government set up an investigation in August 2018 with the mission to investigate a more effective and effective supervision of the Discrimination Act. The investigator would review the measures needed to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Non-Discrimination Act on active measures. The mandate directive states that more effective enforcement of the law is required with proposals for sanctions in the event of non-compliance. The assignment was due to be presented on September 30, 2019, but on August 20, 2019, the Government decided to extend the mandate. Instead, it must now be reported by 1 October 2020.
