i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-3	Madam President, I would like Of course, we all want to see a community without Corona. We Moderates also want to see happy people and growth. We can only hope that the coronap pandemic will pass as soon as possible. It is difficult for us to influence it with political decisions. But when it comes to growth and happy people, we can make a difference. We know that the foundation for growth and happy people is school – that all children reach their greatest potential, graduate school with full grades, go to high school and graduate. That is not the case today. More than one in four pupils in grade 9 left comprehensive school without a full grade this spring, and more than 15 per cent did not qualify for upper secondary school. This report contains 167 requests in many different areas around school and a great many sensible proposals. These are various areas: school food, principals and special school. But I choose to highlight a exercise that I think is incredibly important, and that is our exercise on student health. Too many children feel bad, and we know that anxiety and stress among children and young people are increasing. Mental health is decreasing. We find student health invaluable in our work with our children and young people. In 2011, student health responsibility was written into the School Act, but in rather vague terms. It is stated in the School Act: Students' health should primarily be preventive and health-promoting. When the School Inspectorate examined 23 municipalities' pupil health in 2014, it was a disappointing result. The school inspectorate concluded that schools do not fulfil their task of supporting students to good mental health and to combat mental illness. Above all, prevention of mental illness falls. We Moderates believe that the Education Act should be amended in order to introduce a stronger focus on mental health. At the school's health visit, we think it should be an obvious focus. We also want to make demands that student health staff are available to a sufficient extent. Despite the school law's demands for preventive work, there is information that over 80 per cent of primary schools have no such work to prevent mental illness. We therefore need to review the prevention of mental illness in schools so that the work can be strengthened. Madam President, I would like With these words, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 24 in paragraph 12.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-9	Madam President, I would like The speech that I am going to make is actually Jörgen Grubbs. But because of the current pandemic, I'll keep it. Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 10. For decades, with the good memory of the government parties, we have experienced the transformation of a homogeneous and well-functioning school – even a world-class school – into a school with many faces. Some schools are good and well-functioning, and others actually work really badly. Overall, the changes that have taken place during this time have clearly proved ineffective, or quite simply counterproductive. Nevertheless, the government parties continue in the same vein, albeit with slight adjustments. As politicians, it would be very irresponsible not to do our utmost to ensure that all schools in our country are well-functioning and secure. For us Swedish democrats, it has long been clear that real changes are needed that really improve for pupils and school staff. If our students are to have the opportunity at all to educate themselves to the level required to operate in Sweden – a high-tech country with good welfare – there are many factors that must work in our schools. The most urgent measures to be taken in this situation are to put an end to the lack of education in many of our schools. It is absolutely essential that there are studies in the classroom if teaching is to work at all. This is where many schools fail, and we therefore have proposals for fundamental improvements. I would like to emphasise here uniform rules of procedure, rules which are in the same direction in all the schools of the country. An agreement on the rules of conduct shall be established between the pupil, guardian and school prior to school start. In order for this to work, we also suggest that the Vice-Chancellor's and the teachers' powers should be clarified and tightened up in the chapter of the School Act. 5 on safety and education. This is extremely important. Too far-reaching liberalisation has eroded the authority of teachers and made it much more difficult to maintain studies in the classroom. As the previous speaker mentioned, we also see that the mental ill-health of our students today is greater than ever. That is unacceptable. The reasons for this are many. But it is important that we now take this seriously. The ambiguity that sometimes prevails in our schools is a contributing factor to ill-health. In the long run, students benefit from clear rules. It's a source of security. With insecurity, stress and other negative factors, which, in addition to affecting the student's health, naturally also interfere with the learning process. Student health plays a major role in improving pupils' mental health. That is why we have proposed that student health should be given more resources. Students' health should continuously monitor mental illness for each student, work preventively and be given the opportunity to early catch up on negative trends in our students. We also want to review the possibility of student health in collaboration with BUP to increase opportunities to treat pupils on the spot. This would reduce the long waiting periods that students sometimes have to endure in order to have access to the heavily burdened care within the BUP. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would also like to talk about our teachers. It is a profession that may never have been as important as today. We are faced with a time when we have to reverse negative trends and look again to a world-class Swedish school. As far as career paths for teachers are concerned, we are extremely sceptical about the insecure and sometimes even temporary promotions within the so-called teacher's salary boost. This is not something we advocate. We would rather see quality assured career paths where career development and wage development are linked to proven improvements, such as increased study results and regular further development – but also mentoring. We see mentoring as important. It's about mentoring where the teacher supports colleagues to achieve higher results in the student's school work regardless of the origin level of this. This is the basis for teachers' development in the countries that today achieve the best school results, and that is where Sweden should be.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-20	Madam President, I would like Of course, we support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 6 under paragraph 2. In recent months we have seen miracles performed in the country's schools. Because of the Corona virus, teachers have had to change and change their teaching. Students have sometimes been allowed to stay at home and receive distance education. In upper secondary school, schools have sent all students home, and teachers have been given a real-life digital speed course – hands-on – right in the real world. And it's actually gone well! It has been far from painless, but much has gone well. For some students, it has even proved to be more effective than regular schooling, and there are many indications that the presence may even be higher in digital teaching than in ordinary school. The fact that there is great potential in digitalisation has been pointed out for a long time by the Center Party, and now teachers and students at Sweden's many schools show how well it can actually go – despite the extremely gloomy background to what is happening. In the situation we are seeing now, the Center Party has been involved in taking responsibility for the school to function. We have contributed to increased resources for the principals, and we have been involved in changing a large number of laws and regulations to make everyday life work in the country. In all material respects, we, together with the government and other parties in the Riksdag, have also succeeded in contributing to effective teaching, after all. I would like to express our thanks to all the parties in the committee who have really worked constructively to make this work well. Most of all, however, I would like to send a big thank you to all of Sweden's teachers, vice-chancellors and students who have made great efforts to make everyday life work in this very special situation. Hopefully – and thank God, perhaps I should say – this situation will not last forever. Not everything else can stand up either because of the Corona virus. The fact that we are here today to discuss the further development of the school, for the benefit of students and teachers, is therefore very positive. We must continue to work hard to ensure that Sweden's children and young people have a school to trust. Madam President, I would like Teachers and students should be able to rely on resources. We in the Center Party have been involved in securing several billion SEK in direct support to the municipalities to secure welfare, and we continue to work to strengthen the economic muscles of the municipalities – and also of independent principals. We must trust the principals, otherwise we will have an unsustainable situation in which every school and principal must put unreasonable resources into administration. That is why we want to simplify state subsidies and introduce a sectoral grant for schools. Teachers should be able to trust that they can be allowed to focus on their job. Even teachers spend a lot of time on other things than what should be their primary job, namely teaching and developing teaching. Therefore, the investment in teaching assistants is important. A total of SEK 1 billion is allocated to enable the school leaders to hire teachers' assistants. They can contribute to security and study in the classroom, as well as to practical work related to teaching. Even when it comes to IT, extra adaptations and special support, teachers' assistants can relieve teachers, and this is really needed. Students should also be able to trust that there are good teachers. There is therefore a need for clearer career paths in the teaching profession – and clear pathways into the teaching profession. To strengthen the teaching profession, a professional programme for the teaching profession is now being introduced to promote the professional development of teachers and school leaders. Better and more relevant skills development, better conditions for teachers and school leaders to take part in new facts and research, as well as more transparent career paths and better professional development are the goal. It will strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching profession and, in the long term, contribute to an increasing number of people wanting to become teachers. In order for us to have more teachers, it must also be better for those who have work experience and other education to enter the teaching profession. It therefore needs to be possible to complete additional education in a shorter time, with an increased pace of study. It must also be easier to work at a school and study to become a teacher in parallel. To do just one parenthesis here, this is something that has existed in Sweden from and to then at least the 70s and 80s until now. It is such a pendulum that strikes back and forth, but at this point I think it is extremely important that there are more ways into the teaching profession. Although one may feel that one is preferable to another, the best must not be the enemy of the good. We want more teachers, and if you want them, you also have to make sure that you do not throw out good employees. Therefore, it is crucial that pre-school educators can continue to work in the new structure when we move to a ten-year primary school – and not only to work on it but also to have the opportunity for good competence development. There are many fantastic preschool educators, and we must make sure to make full use of their skills in the Swedish comprehensive school. Madam President, I would like As a student, you must be able to rely on the school and the staff of the school to see you. The Center Party is always working for the school to have room for differences and for students with different personalities, talents, abilities and difficulties to find their own place in school. An important part of this work is to improve every child's ability to find himself and his way in life. That is why we see the need to introduce life sciences as a subject in school. The aim is to improve the individual's ability to manage his or her own life. It strengthens student health, prevents mental illness and sometimes counteracts the very worst, namely suicide. Denmark, Norway and Finland are examples of countries that have already introduced life skills in various forms, and Sweden should follow suit. Being seen and understood by teachers and others at school can be crucial for many students – and for many students. There is a need for ongoing training to ensure that principals, teachers, study and career counselors and other employees at schools have knowledge of violence in close relationships and actively work against sexual harassment, gender-based violence and violations. The Swedish National Agency for Education and Social Sciences and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare are carrying out important development work to improve the collaboration between student health, health care and social services so that children and young people get efforts that are coordinated in a good way at an early stage. Thanks to the January agreement, targeted efforts are now also included against the most socially vulnerable areas in Sweden as well as on honour repression. It is an area that has long been neglected in Sweden, with devastating consequences for many children and young people. In this context, I would also like to highlight a fantastic work done by other actors in this area. One example is General Barnhuset, a government foundation that works with research and method development and produces material specifically for strengthening children and students in vulnerable situations. It can be about violence and sexual abuse but also about other difficult situations, such as when children end up in custody disputes and more. Another example is the work model Skolfam, which is about supporting children who have been received in family homes to manage the school well. There are even more child rights organisations that complement society in various ways in supporting all children and young people, especially those who need it most. That is also why I voted in favour of reservation No 6. Efforts are needed to develop children's knowledge and social development; this is absolutely necessary. Madam President, I would like I'd like to end by once again thanking all the teachers and students and all the other professionals in school as well for the wonderful work you do every day. This applies both now during the coronavirus and when it is everyday, which it will be again sooner or later. So let us continue working together for a school that can be trusted!
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-38	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating teachers and students. This is at the heart of the school. There is much talk of an equal school, and it may vary what we mean by an equivalent school. Some may want schools to be in principle uniform, with no variations among themselves, while others, like us Christian Democrats, are open to achieving the common goal by different routes. Since each child is unique, different educational paths may be needed to give an individual child the best possible conditions to achieve their full potential. The person at the forefront of this important work is the teacher, with his teaching skills. We know from UKÄ's reviews that there are major differences between the teaching programmes of higher education institutions; they are of very uneven quality. This means that newly graduated teachers can have different tools with them in terms of how they are equipped for working life. Fortunately, research also shows that even mediocre teachers, or even less skilled teachers, can become skilled teachers if they receive good training. It is therefore extremely important that the training provided should be based on an evidence-based, scientific basis and proven experience. We cannot afford to expose our students to short-term trends without scientific basis shaping the teaching. The Christian Democrats want an appropriate authority, perhaps the Swedish National Agency for Education, to review the training given. It shall also be disseminated and use methods with scientific evidence. Madam President, I would like One such example is the Special Educational School Authority, which in a research summary shows how sign language helps language development for young children with disabilities. Sign language gives children who, for example, have a hearing loss or are completely deaf an opportunity to express their will and wishes. I myself have seen examples of how children with intellectual disabilities, who long lacked another language, were able to communicate with their surroundings with sign language in an excellent way. Today sign language education is offered to parents who have children who need it for their communication. Even the married or cohabiting parent can be admitted to such an education. We Christian Democrats believe, however, that siblings should also have this; it is important that siblings can also communicate with their deaf or hearing-impaired brother or sister. We therefore want the government to review the possibility of including siblings in sign language training. Madam President, I would like According to the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish School Inspectorate, around 2,000 students have a particularly long and problematic absence. A major concern is that there is a lack of national statistics from the principals showing valid and invalid absences, and therefore it is uncertain how large the darkness number is. In 2017, SCB assessed that it is more like about 5,000 home-sitting children in Sweden. We need to know how extensive this problem of home sitting is. The Christian Democrats believe that it needs to be imposed on an appropriate authority to produce national absence statistics. Too many schools fail in their efforts to bring back home - sitting children. It is common that 11-year-olds, 12-year-olds and 13-year-olds are at home for up to one year without there being a sensible dialogue between school, child psychiatry and parents. Many of these children have neuropsychotic diagnoses, and these are very concrete. Many have very good intellectual resources but still fail in the ordinary Swedish school, which is largely based on describing things in your own words and being able to reflect. Society also has a responsibility for these children and young people and for giving them the opportunity to develop to their full potential. In some cases distance learning can be a solution; in others, it may be a question of a teacher coming home to the student. Some pupils can be returned to school after a transition period, in some cases with adaptation of premises and pedagogy. I visited Hannaskolan in Örebro a while ago, where a special educator was attached to the student care team. Various measures have helped to increase attendance at school in a measurable way. We Christian Democrats believe that an appropriate authority should be given the task of providing support for schools on how best to provide support for these so-called home sitters. Madam President, I would like New arrivals have special challenges when it comes to obtaining sufficient knowledge to complete school with approved grades, especially if they arrived late in Sweden and have had a poor schooling before that. But even these students will of course have good opportunities to assimilate the knowledge that is required in school in order to be able to educate themselves and eventually become self-sufficient. In order to give newly arrived students the right to knowledge and the chance to achieve the knowledge goals, we Christian Democrats believe that it would need to be investigated whether the schooling requirements for these students could be extended even if the student is 18 years of age. One option could also be to introduce a special school form for late arrivals. The aim is for everyone to have as good conditions as possible to graduate from school with approved grades and move on to the education system or to working life. Madam President, I would like Good knowledge development requires a good school environment and student health. Students who are well learn better. I have seen examples of students who have had difficulty concentrating. The teachers have had difficulty instructing the student, the student has forgotten homework and so on. When the student health care has made contact with the student, it has come to the conclusion that there may have been substance abuse problems in the home that have made the student's entire time focus on what it will meet when it comes home from school. What condition is the student's mother or father? Is this about assault? Are they drunk? Should the student go around looking for bottles to pour out? A well-developed student health care also promotes preventive work against mental illness on a general basis, both individually against those students who need it and on a general level. The Christian Democrats believe that student health needs to be equipped for the long term, for example by giving the regions a single assignment for the entire child and youth health care system aimed at increasing accessibility to both pupil health and child and youth psychiatry as well as to the health centres. This means that the medical part of pupil health should no longer have the school as its principal. We also want to introduce a student health guarantee that means that every student should have the opportunity to get in touch with student health every day. There are also good reasons to include more proportions in pupil health, such as physiotherapists and occupational therapists, in order to provide early effective support to pupils who show signs of, for example, neuropsychiatric disabilities. Madam President, I would like With this, I support the Christian Democrats' reservation 23 in paragraph 11. However, I naturally support all our proposals, including those which are being simplified.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-56	Madam President, I would like Someone said the other day that it feels like we've pressed the pause button, and a little bit it is. But for a lot of people, it's the least break. I am thinking, above all, of all the health and care staff and many other professions where the job is running quite a lot as usual, despite covid-19, or even more than usual. We see reports of health workers and around staff working hard. We also have our preschools and primary schools open, and many there have had to work harder than usual when colleagues have been sick or at home to avoid the spread of infection. We have many to be grateful to. We also each have the personal responsibility to ensure that their working environment is not worsened, to take care of ourselves and each other and not to contribute to the spread of the disease. I have, of course, followed the school in the change that has taken place during the time that we have lived in the midst of the pandemic and are still doing. All of us in this House, regardless of the political colour, have done what we have been able to do to help bring about decisions that have had to come forward quickly – all in order to make it easier for the government and our school authorities to make the most sensible decisions at the moment. For this I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Education and Training very much. Together we have done what we have been able to do, and we will certainly continue to do so. Last week I had the opportunity to follow two teachers at my own high school at home in Årjäng when they were teaching with their upper secondary and adult students students, and of course I did it digitally. I got a login to their learning platforms and could for a couple of days shadow them to see how lessons and dialogue with the students worked. I'm really impressed. Of course it's not as usual, but it works. Then there are some students that you have to contact afterwards to really make sure that they have kept up with or to follow up on different things. Of course, the digital maturity and habit of both teachers and students are linked to the experience of how you think it is going. The people I talked to all expressed that they miss their friends and the opportunity to hang out, as one of the students put it. And so it is, we all miss our normal, normal life. But the school's principals, teachers, students and other staff are doing an amazing job right now, and we can't say that enough times. With the amendments to the regulation, schools can now ensure that those young people who need it most can return to school in smaller groups. It is extremely important, not least for those who have the toughest digital or for those who have a tough home environment and for whom school is the security. Now I'm building a house. Last Sunday, when I was under the half roof that has so far come up and looked at the roof chairs, which are made in place around a glulam beam of skilled carpenters, it was easy to imagine the school as one of the most important houses in our community. There are a couple of the most important foundations teachers and students, and the foundation is the school law. It is a law that requires a lot but which also enables the obvious, that every child in school should have the opportunity to reach as far as possible based on their conditions and educational goals. Last term of office we had a national collection for the teaching profession, and this term of office has invited key actors in the Collection for More Teachers initiative. It is important to meet in dialogue. I am also happy when I see that there are more people listening to what the students and their organisations have to say, because we know that it is about the security of school, a security that enables knowledge learning and taking a place and participating in what is the school's second mission: that the student should become an active citizen of society. It is also about the possibility of getting the special support provided by the school law, which the government has strengthened the writings about, and to make sure, through the reading-write-count guarantee, that not a single little kid falls between the chairs but is caught up by teachers who can fill up. Last term of office, the Government appointed the School Commission, a collection of professionals, business and researchers, who worked out solid proposals towards more equal living conditions for all regardless of background. It must not matter what education your parents have or what situation you have at home for your success in school. But it does today, and we must change that by all the means available to us. One important thing is to give teachers the opportunity to avoid some of the peripheral tasks that have taken time from teaching – that work is in full swing – and to have confidence in their professional skills. They are best at teaching and should also be given the opportunity to develop it throughout their working life. Another thing is to strengthen student health. There we have increased state subsidies. We have established a national school development programme focusing on pupils' health and care. In an ongoing study, a mandate has been given to propose an acceptable minimum level for pupil health, which is also proposed by the School Commission and supported by the January Agreement. Finally, Madam President, many good things are being proposed in the motions we are dealing with at the moment, and around almost all of the proposals the work is going on, which means that the motions are being rejected. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-70	Madam President, I would like We Liberals obviously support the proposals we have put forward in the autumn and spring. They have been simplified, but we support our specific opinion in the report. I will focus mainly on the teaching profession and the status of the teaching profession, but also on the question of order and study, which is the most important and priority of the Liberals in school policy and education policy. We have focused on it actively and stubbornly, I would say, over the past year. I think these are very interesting proposals and hope that many who follow this debate will go in and study the various political proposals contained in the Teacher and Students report, because we have diametrically different approaches to the status of the teaching profession, to teacher training or, for that matter, to the question of study and security. Although it sometimes sounds like we agree that we have to tackle the problems, it is obvious that we interpret things differently and are different tough about how to proceed in order to increase respect for the teaching profession, raise the status of the teaching profession and, not least, tighten up admission and admission to teacher education, which we also believe affects the attractiveness of the teaching profession. What we Liberals highlight in particular in our special opinion, which is also dealt with in parallel in an investigation, concerns the competences of teachers. Here I think it is important that the Swedish Parliament and the Education Committee are clearer when we state that if we are to increase the status of the teaching profession and respect for Sweden's teachers and increase their powers, we cannot have parallel structures and systems, which I mean undermine the status of the teaching profession and the role of the teacher in the classroom. We have lifted this up actively. This concerns the Swedish School Inspectorate's assessments and the Swedish Children's and Student's Representative's assessments regarding personal violations, cap. 6 of the School Act. What we have managed, and for which we are very pleased, is that after long debate and hard political work we have achieved a national plan for study and security, Madam President. Of course, the most important thing in that mission is not that we should tighten up the possibility of seizing mobile phones in the classroom; that possibility already exists in essence. What we do is clarify the ability of teachers or other school staff to seize disturbing objects in the classroom, as there are both pupils and parents who question the school's or teacher's decision to seize mobile phones. There are at least as important missions, perhaps even more important, for the investigation to look at, namely how we prevent violence, threats and mess in school. There are also two points that I would like to highlight in particular, namely the teacher's ability to intervene without risking losing his job. In order to maintain order, the school must be given the opportunity to intervene against disorder and disorder of order without being called into question. This is not something that only the Liberals have highlighted in the last year, but the National Association of Teachers and the Federation of Teachers did during the spring and summer a great job where they asked questions to their members. Six out of ten teachers said they refrain from intervening against messy students for fear of being reported to the School Inspectorate and the Children's and Student Ombudsman. That is why we in the Liberals believe that what is being proposed in terms of extending teachers' powers and the ongoing investigation is insufficient. It is not enough to look at teachers' powers and then think that we are solving this problem. We need to look at the cap. 6 about personal violations of what the teacher has done, what the student assistant has done but also what the students have done to contribute to the situation. We believe that this is not included in the claims for damages and in the high-profile cases that the Children's and Student's Ombudsman has conducted. We believe that, in parallel, a pure school inspection is required and that the function of the Children's and Student's Representative in its current form must be phased out as it has so far undermined the entire mission of maintaining study and security. With regard to the second important issue of the teaching profession, which is also mentioned in the report, namely the administrative burden on teachers, it is important to point out a number of important proposals that we have tried to draw attention to: to digitise the national tests and to have them corrected externally. We believe that this will be an important way of relieving teachers. Unfortunately, however, it takes time because of the technical review of these issues and that there should be legal certainty and quality. We also believe that the proposal on teacher assistants is a way to relieve the teachers, but the investigation carried out by the previous government to relieve the teachers administratively and which came to the Government Office in 2018 has not yet led to concrete proposals or assignments. We in the Liberals would like to send the S-MP government a list of what we can continue to lift away from the teachers' administration so that they can focus on the core mission, namely teaching. It is not enough for the state to do this, Madam President, but the municipalities – the principals – and the independent schools must also assume their responsibilities if we are to be able to raise the status of the teaching profession, improve the working environment and retain the teaching profession.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-81	Madam President, I would like How big is an 11-year-old? The Swedish Public Health Agency reports that 4 out of 10 11-year-old girls report that they suffer from psychosomatic disorders, depression and sleeping difficulties. It can be about headaches or different types of pains that make it difficult to concentrate in the classroom. Mental ill-health in Sweden is increasing while we are becoming richer, and it is also increasing among children, students and young people, and especially among girls. This is one of the biggest societal challenges, according to us in the Green Party, and it is something that we need to address in many areas of society, not least school. This morning, a report from the Swedish Student Unions, which organizes high school students, came about the consequences for the mental health of many of the high school students who are now forced to conduct their studies remotely. Several speakers have highlighted the incredibly good and intense work that teachers, principals and students do to ensure that the teaching works even during the pandemic. At the same time, on the basis of today's report, we see that more needs to be done, not least when it comes to support from student health to students. Students' health is something that we have seen shortcomings in before. I believe that in many areas, due to the pandemic, we will be even more aware of the systemic errors in care for the elderly, care and school. Student health is one of those. In Sweden we have a school system where some schools primarily have the task of distributing profits to their owners. One way to make more profit is unfortunately not to have enough staff in student health. Many parties have proposals in the report on minimum levels or guarantees, and the Green Party is very pleased that the government has now set up a study on minimum levels of pupil health. This is absolutely necessary, not least because we still have the profit interest that is so problematic for Swedish schools. There are many measures that we need to take to prevent mental illness in our pupils at school. The work against bullying and insulting treatment is one of them. Another proposal that has been highlighted by the Center Party, among others, is to equip our young people with knowledge of how to affect their own mental health. The subject of sport and health has recently been expanded by 100 hours of teaching, and I believe that, like our neighbouring countries in the Nordic countries, we should try to have teaching for mental health. It can be about sleep and dealing with the reality that we, who are old enough to be in this House, have not grown up in, namely social media and the constant presence of digital technology and screens. Of course, it can also be about the links between physical and mental well-being. Madam President, I would like The Teacher and Student report deals with many different issues. I choose to focus on mental illness, but I also want to say a few things about those students who, either because they are particularly talented or because they need extra support in school, need different efforts from us in politics. The particularly talented students are that child who draws an advanced cartoon character before your own kid has even figured out which part of the main foot is up or down. They are that child who learned to read while you were still practicing with your child to dress socks. They are that child who, with the right conditions, can become a world-renowned artist or cutting-edge scientist but who, with the wrong conditions, becomes the messy kid in the class, who loses motivation and falls behind. In the January agreement, we have agreed that these students should be given the conditions that the school law actually says that everyone should have to develop at their own pace and get the stimulus that they need to achieve as far as possible. For example, they need to be able to study upper secondary school courses if they are in upper secondary school, and those in upper secondary school need to be able to study higher education courses. The Swedish National Agency for Education is now working on such an assignment. We also have a large group of students with neuropsychiatric disabilities. Knowledge of the needs of these students needs to be increased. I have met many such children myself, not least when I was working as a homework helper. A girl wrote as a rake but told her as Astrid Lindgren herself. It is students who have the full potential to succeed but who require other efforts than we neurotypics do. Teachers need to know about this. I am therefore pleased that we have now referred to the proposal that knowledge of neuropsychiatric disabilities should be compulsory in teacher training. In these words, although there are many I did not have time to say, I am in favour of the committee's proposal.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-92	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Left Party's reservation No 19 to be approved. The current pandemic has led to a great deal of grief and misery for many people. But it has also in many cases, as Annika Hirvonen Falk mentioned earlier, put its finger on many of the system errors that can be found in both elderly care and health care, but in this case in the school system. For example, we can see that it is a fact that Swedish school has gone from being one of the world's most equal school systems to year by year increasing the differences between the pupils who have it easier in school and those who do not have the same opportunities. We can see that it is becoming more difficult to make efforts with different variations in school for a time like this. We can see that far too large children's groups in preschool make it more difficult to deal with the fact that one should keep a distance from one another according to the recommendations of the Public Health Agency. We can see that the fact that the school is municipalised rather than having a government principal makes it more difficult to put in action that can deal uniformly with the Corona situation in all schools throughout our country. Madam President, I would like Although there are many system errors in school, I intend to talk about a specific issue on which the Left Party has been exercising in this report. It's about study guidance in native language. Several studies and studies indicate that a simplified picture of asylum seekers and newly arrived children's knowledge and language skills dominates the Swedish school system's view of this group. This, of course, affects the children's ability to succeed in schooling and to acquire the knowledge they need. The school is also often highlighted in research as an incredibly important place for the development of newly arrived children and young people. The school is important partly because it creates structure in everyday life and partly because it gives children and young people the opportunity to create social networks. But it is also important because it of course provides opportunities and the tools that students need to learn the Swedish language. A long wait for a regular school place risks affecting the well-being of asylum seekers, just as it would have done for any other child. At the same time, asylum seekers and newly arrived children and their schooling are areas that have not been sufficiently explored. However, we can see that the situation is different in different parts of our country. One of the shortcomings in the Swedish teaching of new arrivals is that many new students experience difficulties in being included and that they stand stuttering or in many cases unfortunately risk going backwards on the way from primary school to upper secondary school and language introduction there, or from language introduction and on to national programs in upper secondary school. The preparation classes are in some cases a problem according to many researchers, partly because in many cases they are physically separated from the larger school context and partly because many remain there for far too long. The Left Party thinks it is very good that we have the opportunity to study guidance within the Swedish school system, but we believe that this right should be extended. We therefore urge the Government to investigate the possibility of extending the right to study guidance in native language and also to receive teaching in its own mother tongue.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-102	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a world-leading research nation. No matter how you measure and evaluate, Sweden performs very well in research. Not least now during the coronapandemine we can see how Sweden is actually with and competes with nations like the USA and China to be the first to develop a vaccine against corona. The foundation for our good development in research was laid decades ago. But now countries in our world are beginning to catch up and get past us. The OECD notes that we have a high and consistent level of research, but we miss what is called performance peaks, that is, areas where we stand out as absolute world best. In the modern and global research and innovation climate, this is exactly what Sweden needs to develop new products and services that then emerge and that are also turned into jobs. For a long time we have seen how business investment in research and development has been declining. Although the state has almost doubled its funding over the same period, the total research budget has not increased. This is a serious development because business-related research is not exactly the one that creates jobs and growth. We therefore think that Sweden needs to review how the legislation can be designed so that we can promote more and more investments in Sweden. Not least, many companies fear that less and less money will be spent on research and research environments after the coronapandemine. Sweden has problems with research mobility, the so-called researcher mobility. It is a prerequisite for strong and dynamic research. The great value of mobility and mobility among researchers is increased access to international contacts and networks and to advanced research structures and increased research skills. It is therefore very worrying that mobility, mobility, is worse in Sweden than in other comparable countries. For example, statistics show that nearly 70 percent of our professors at the ten largest universities in Sweden had a doctoral degree from the same university. Several evaluations of Swedish higher education and research systems point to Sweden's concern about inbreeding in the Swedish higher education system. The Linné evaluation also identifies low mobility as a weakness, especially when it comes to newly-disputed researchers. Therefore, Madam President, we Moderates would like to urge that the Swedish Research Council should be given a mandate to produce not only an analytical basis, which we also wish the Swedish Research Council to do, but also recommendations for how to develop increased research mobility. The aim should be to increase the mobility of Swedish researchers both between national and international universities and between higher education institutions and the business community as well as public activities. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask you to accept reservation 1 in paragraph 1.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-109	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 in this report. Because of the current pandemic, I have had many speeches written by others, but this is my own performance, and it feels good. Madam President, I would like I intend in this speech to deepen my vision of what future research should look like. I have presented our proposals a number of times here in the speaker's chair, and they are also in our excellent committee motion. In my opinion, a university should have academic fineness, but it should not only be academic freedom for externally appointed directors on boards, to which many seem to refer today when they talk about academic freedom. For example, freedom of teaching for the individual teacher should prevail. That is where it breaks down today. In fact, Sweden is worse off than many other countries in this respect. I can tell you a little anecdotally that there was greater freedom of teaching for the individual teacher in Deng Xiaoping's China than in Sweden at the corresponding time. It's a task that probably shocks a lot of people. But I actually think it was that way. The teaching institutions shall have a large proportion of basic state-funded grants. It ensures career paths for skilled and enthusiastic researchers. It is also important that there are funds for basic research and curiosity-based research, which large basic grants should guarantee. Sweden has a lower proportion of basic funding than comparable countries. We should reweight the appropriations so that they are similar to those in comparable countries. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, not everyone who feels called to engage in research is fit to do research. Universities and other institutions must make it clear that everyone who wants may not be able to receive research funding. The resources of the state and taxpayers are finite. There must be boundaries. My vision is that those who are more suitable to teach than to do research will be flown into the course of teaching. One can be extremely good at researching and terrible teaching and vice versa. It is not stressed enough. In this way, however, we would not skewed out the funds, but those who can really make a difference would have substantial funding to develop their research. There should of course be large grants for both natural science research and humanities and society. These grants are to be financed by both the Councils and the higher education institutions. The appropriations should be generous, but according to my vision, current buzz words and trends should not guide where the funds go. Unfortunately, I see signs that this is happening today. That's very negative. Instead, my vision takes account of the major and serious social problems we are facing today. Nor should a lot of funding go to infantile nonsense research. We do not need research to show that democracy is better than oppression, as Mr Ringmar has so eloquently described. This is about tax money. The research should be free. But it is someone who grants the appropriations and who chooses to give funds for something to opt out of something else. We probably have a system error in the allocation procedure quite simply. In my vision, the leadership of higher education institutions and the advice of adult people are populated, not governed by misplaced collegial peer-responsive nepotism. If an introvert woman in her 40s presents the best application and has the best merits, the grant should not go to any social athlete who has managed to charm the rector but is a significantly worse researcher. Meritocracy should prevail for real and not, as it sometimes is today, pretend. Madam President, I would like Another strange order that I have reacted to and mentioned before concerns educational research and school research. It invests a lot of money in research on how to achieve better results, without first noting and exploiting the accumulated knowledge that already exists. The knowledge of the old faculty is significant and important. But it seems more interesting to research yours and yours than to take advantage of the knowledge we already possess. It is ineffective and wrong, in my view. Some researchers and others will be disappointed if my vision were to be implemented; others will be happy. Finally, however, I have another great vision, Madam President. It is about us politicians spending more time managing the country in the best way and spending far less energy trying to make everyone happy. Anyone who tries to please everyone will ultimately not be satisfied.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-120	Madam President, I would like Of course, we in the Center Party support all our reservations, but I only support reservation 11 in the report. Today we are debating motions on research policy that have been received during the general period of exercise. At the end of the 1970s, a proposal was made that each government should leave a research bill. Since 1982, when Thorbjörn Fälldin led the government, governments have each term of office delivered a research bill that pointed out the direction of Swedish research policy. The next research policy proposal is expected to be presented this autumn. In view of the Corona crisis that society is currently experiencing, and which affects both health and the economy, research policy will be a very important tool forward. Research and new knowledge play a key role both in meeting pandemics and other health challenges, as well as for innovations and new businesses that contribute to jobs and prosperity when the economy needs to recover. Sweden has very good conditions as a research nation. We have outstanding research, many universities that stand well in international measurements and a rich tradition of successful research. It is about research that has led to new medical findings that allow us to feel better and live longer. But these are also new technologies that enable the industry to lead technological development, so that jobs and businesses are created throughout the country. It builds Sweden's prosperity. Strengthening Sweden as a knowledge nation and strengthening our competitiveness is a key. But competition for international research facilities, investments and researchers is intensifying. In order to cope with international competition, Sweden needs to take further steps to remain an internationally strong research nation. The debate on research policy tends to focus precisely on publicly funded research. But in Sweden a large part of the research is conducted through private investment in research and development. In view of the Corona crisis that is now affecting many companies, there is a great risk that these investments will be reduced. It is an important perspective to bring us forward. Madam President, I would like What needs to be done to strengthen Sweden as a research nation? We in the Center Party have several proposals, and we highlight some in this report. First of all, strong and attractive research environments are still needed in Sweden. The state funds create important conditions when it comes to ensuring that we have higher education institutions of international top quality. Swedish researchers, companies and public organisations also need to have access to the best research infrastructure. It is a fundamental prerequisite for conducting high-quality research. We also need to improve the conditions for higher education institutions to be able to profile themselves. In the higher education landscape that we have in Sweden there are both larger and smaller universities with an international focus. They must be allowed to develop that further. I would like to mention some examples of the smaller universities: University of Skövde with its computer technology, Blekinge Institute of Technology with its soft engineering and the University of West with its production technology. Secondly, collaboration between academia and industry needs to be improved and strengthened. It is important to strengthen mobility between academia and industry. Today, small research-intensive companies and individual inventors and entrepreneurs, rather than academia, are increasingly important sources of innovation. It is therefore necessary to make it both easier and more worthwhile to move from the research world to the business world and vice versa. The lack of cooperation is a problem that we have been pointing out for a large number of years. When we look out over Sweden, we can also see that many important initiatives have been taken to strengthen collaboration in different ways. Here I would like to mention an example that is close to my heart, namely the investment Assar in Skövde. Science Park Skövde, Volvo companies, University of Skövde, public organisations and IDC West Sweden work together in Assar Industrial Innovation Arena to promote new technology, research and solutions for industry in Sweden and the world. Thirdly, Sweden needs to have a clearer goal of taking more of the funds available within the EU. The EU has the world's largest research budget, and Sweden has a great potential to contribute to this cooperation. It is about both the design for future programmes and that Sweden should have a better opportunity to retrieve funds and projects. The Center Party has worked for a long time to increase EU research efforts on antibiotics. More basic research is needed to develop the new antibiotics that are needed. Another way to promote the development of new antibiotics may be to set up a specific innovation prize. The current corona epidemic also shows the need for action on viruses. Madam President, I would like One area that has long been lagging behind in research is education. Teaching should be based on science and proven experience. The link between practical research and the teaching profession needs to be strengthened, and research results must be disseminated to those who benefit most from it. The Center Party therefore wants to strengthen practical research and improve the opportunities for professional teachers to carry out part-time practical research. There are also other areas that are important to highlight where research and new knowledge are needed. If we are to cope with future food production, improve our health and cope with the green transition, we need continued efforts on both research and innovation. That is why I look forward to strengthening these areas with the research and innovation proposal coming later this year.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-135	Madam President, I would like It is not possible to talk about research without mentioning the coronapandemine, which was not there when we wrote our exercise last autumn. I would therefore like to begin by addressing Sweden's higher education institutions, which I think has done very well. It is about students and researchers who are now forced to work remotely and whose studies are now perhaps delayed. We work together to reduce the consequences of the pandemic. We have introduced support for companies, rules for sick leave and student funding for cancelled courses. These are some of the measures that have been developed to slow down the effects of the pandemic, but only research can remedy and find cures and vaccines against the virus. Viruses, not only covid-19, cause a great deal of suffering. Ebola and zika are some viral diseases that cause both death and great harm without any cure. The research on them has not been close to getting the resources now spent on covid-19. Having said that, it is to be welcomed that both Sweden and the EU and other strong research nations are investing in covid-19 research, and hopefully it can also mean that cures and vaccines can be found for viral diseases that mainly affect countries with poorer economies and less research resources and that therefore have not been researched as much. In order for research to be good and for Sweden to continue to be a cutting edge research nation, more research funding is not enough. Madam President, I would like to highlight some other measures, including secure employment. Insecure employment is a major problem in the Swedish labour market, and it is particularly important in the higher education sector. Insecure employment relationships can cause good researchers to choose other professions than academics. The constant knuckles of withdrawing research funds to pay your own salary also reduce the time for your own research. The Left Party believes that all PhD students and researchers should be offered secure and permanent employment. A great advantage of hiring doctoral students from the first day of the doctoral programme is that it can lead to greater transparency in admissions. Information on job vacancies will be disseminated to more people, leading to more qualified applications. It will hopefully also lead to the adoption of more people from non-European backgrounds and more from the working class, and to a more even gender balance in more subjects. A wide range increases the quality of research when several perspectives and experiences meet. The statistics show that more men than women have doctoral position, other employment within the university or are business doctoral students. Women are more likely to make a living in a different way. It also means that women's time before they reach a degree is longer than for men. Secure employment for all doctoral students would even out these gender differences. Madam President, I would like I support reservation 4 which proposes that the Government should take measures to amend the Higher Education Regulation in order to increase the job security of doctoral students. An upper limit should be set on the length of time a person may be employed before the employment is transferred to a regular permanent contract of employment. The maximum time limit should be a maximum of 24 months over the last 5 years. The Government should also proceed with the Research Career Investigation's proposal for better conditions for doctoral students with scholarships. Safe doctoral students and researchers do better research. The Left Party has also exercised the view that the government should set up an investigation in order to review the possibility of setting up an institute for police science research. This exercise has been prepared in accordance with the rules for simplified preparation, and I cannot therefore support it. But the need for police science research is evident, and police science and research need to be given an academic status. Madam President, I would like Although women have long been in the majority in basic education, men have been in the majority in postgraduate education. The choice of research area differs between women and men. Women are over-represented in medicine and public health, while men are over-represented in technology and natural sciences. For the Left Party, it is important that the Academy does this as soon as possible and that there is a gender perspective in research. What we in the Swedish Parliament say and think matters, and I hope that we can all agree that both gender research and research on racism are important sciences. There is still much to be said about research, but I am planning, as the other debaters from the committee, to come back in connection with the research bill.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-147	Madam President, I would like This speech has been written for me by Pia Steensland. I'm afraid she couldn't attend today. Despite all the negative effects of the ongoing corona epidemic, it is inspiring to follow the intensive research that is ongoing worldwide to find effective treatment and a vaccine against covid-19. Sweden should be a prominent knowledge nation, where education, research and innovation are conducted with high quality and efficiency. Research exchanges are a strong driver for promoting high research quality and good international collaborations. We Christian Democrats therefore believe that national strategies for the internationalisation of both education and research should be created to promote the participation of Swedish researchers in international works. Similarly, our universities within the country should be encouraged to cooperate more closely to create the best conditions for achieving strong research and education environments. Here, for example, Genomic Medicine Sweden – a cooperation body for regions with university health care and universities with a medical faculty in precision medicine – can be a role model, when a successful and exemplary initiative has been taken and worked in project form to coordinate and develop the conditions for Sweden to be at the forefront of precision medicine. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats support all our reservations in the report, but I would particularly like to highlight and call for our reservation 14 in paragraph 4 on precision medicine. Precision medicine aims to give the right treatment to the right patient – at the right time. This may involve diagnostic methods and therapy for individualised investigation, prevention and treatment of disease, applied at individual level or in parts of the population. Precision medicine means that healthcare increasingly goes from treating all patients with a diagnosis in a similar way, to adapting treatment to individual patients' genetic, environmental and lifestyle conditions over time. The new possibilities for more accurate and accurate treatment are based on biological information and biomarkers at the molecular level of the patient as well as patient data on how genetic factors interact with environment and lifestyle factors. In order to create long-term stable and sustainable development in precision medicine, a single national responsibility and governance is required. Not least given that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven (S) signed an EU declaration in April 2018, a Towards access to 1 million Genomes in the EU by 2022. By signing the declaration, Sweden has undertaken to share data and other relevant data with other countries in order to increase knowledge about the genetic link between different diseases and to contribute to the development of precision medicine. This is an urgent commitment that we Christian Democrats support, but it should be emphasised that a clear national strategy is needed to achieve the objective. It's missing today. The precision medicine system has a number of obstacles in relation to the goals of enterprise policy, health policy and research policy. A number of these barriers share precision medicine with other parts of healthcare. This applies not least to shortcomings in current legislation and infrastructure for the management of and national access to patient data. The availability of patient data must be secured immediately. The Christian Democrats have therefore been the driving force in introducing national standards for journal systems and quality registers. Happily, a unanimous parliament issued an announcement to the government to implement this about a year ago. It is urgent that the government acts and implements it immediately. More effort is needed. Madam President, I would like There is rapid scientific development in precision medicine. In order to create clear national leadership and to address existing barriers, the government should urgently develop a partial strategy for the work on precision medicine within the framework of the national strategy for life science. Such a sub-strategy should describe guidelines on how to secure a successful structure for research and implementation in healthcare, but also address ethical aspects and include a long-term financing plan. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to stress that it is important that good research results are disseminated within the research world but also to the public. In recent years laudable efforts have been made, such as free access, open access, to scientific publications, but more needs to be done. The importance of this is evident not least now under the coronapndemine. It is therefore desirable to develop a national strategy also for the dissemination of scientific results and research communication.
i-2MyV6uLDTT2AGeE1rkvTad	Madam President, I would like I would first of all like to endorse the Liberals' reservation No 9. Then, despite the liberal I am beginning to return to the legendary Social Democratic Prime Minister, Tage Erlander, who often stressed the importance of research. He pointed out that it was the major efforts to increase research funding during the 50's and 60's that laid the foundations for the prosperity that Sweden enjoyed in recent decades. Of course, in the name of justice, I will also mention our own Lars Leijonborg and the major initiatives initiated starting in 2006 under the alliance government. Without technological advances in a variety of areas, new perspectives in social sciences and history, we would never have been the country we are today. When we are in one of the worst crises in recent decades, one of the answers to equip ourselves better for the future should be more research, better conditions for research and more efficient research. It concerns the medical advances that need to be made to prevent similar pandemics in the future. But this also applies to research related to the Swedish economy. Sweden is a small, technically developed country dependent on exports that need research progress in order to remain strong in increasingly sharp international competition, not least in the wake of the coronapandemine. Madam President, I would like Work on the research bill will continue in the spring and probably also in the summer. The Liberals, together with the Center Party, are taking part in these talks with the government. I would therefore like to mention here, Madam President, two areas covered by Liberals' reservation No 9, which I started by mentioning. Firstly, research into the climate crisis. Before the Corona crisis, the climate crisis was at the top of the agenda. Despite the fact that other issues have taken over the last few weeks, we must not forget that the climate crisis is still going on outside our doors and windows. According to reports, April was the warmest month of April since measurements started. Research and development are fundamental to solving the climate crisis. Sweden's prosperity and growth depend on a competitive industry. At the same time, industry accounts for a large part of our CO2 emissions. All efforts to reduce these emissions are important. Research and development are essential here. This also includes more research on climate-smart transport, electric flights, electric roads and so on. Secondly, Madam President, one of the areas in which Sweden is strong is life science. This includes research and development of products, services and technologies that create the conditions for increased service life and quality of life for patients. But we need to be even stronger, not least in the whole research infrastructure on health care. It is about strengthening the coordination of different actors and improving the use and availability of statistics. That sounds simple, Madam President, but if it had been simple, it would already have been implemented. Over the years, we have seen, perhaps most of all during this spring, the need for more practical research in healthcare but also in social care and school. Part of the whole thing to make this a reality is to solve the forms of employment. More universities and higher education institutions will need to review the possibility of creating so-called combined services together with municipalities, county councils and regions both for doctoral students and PhD researchers. A doctoral nurse must not disappear to the academy. Hen's knowledge and research is needed close to the individual, close to the activity and not least close to the patient. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to emphasise Sweden once again as a nation of knowledge. It is, as I began by saying, the result of a long tradition that began earlier than Tage Erlander and which hopefully did not end with Lars Leijonborg. It is the result of a tradition of investing in education and good education that is accessible to all. We know, Madam President, that higher education, research and entrepreneurship lay the foundations for meeting different societal challenges – whatever they may be.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-169	Madam President, I would like We are debating today the motions written during the general period of exercise last autumn. It really feels like a very long time ago. There are many good ideas and suggestions in the exercise, and most of what the exercisers want is going on, investigated, or prepared. Some will also be answered in the upcoming research proposal that, if everything goes as it should, will come sometime in the autumn. We are now in the midst of a worldwide pandemic that many of us who are living right now have never experienced before. It affects everything, and it causes great concern. No one knows who's going to get hit or how hard. Many have already been affected and forced into hospitalization. Others have lost close relatives and are in the midst of grief. Others, especially health and care workers, are currently experiencing their most difficult work situation ever. We can all help to prevent it from getting worse – by listening to the Public Health Authority's recommendations on social distance, on not making unnecessary travel and on being particularly careful about those who belong to a risk group. And you should wash your hands and of course stay at home if you don't feel well. Some who also work intensively around the world are the scientists, those who on the one hand are trying to understand the patterns of the pandemic we are seeing and, on the other hand, are trying to obtain a vaccine. It is them and their environment and opportunities that we are discussing in this debate. Fortunately, at the moment, Europe is gathering together in the midst of the pandemic. Together, a covid-19 data platform has been set up, which is a common open platform within the European Open Science Cloud, EOSC. The goal is to link the research results of the different countries around the virus in order to build on the latest research. This is really important. With this, we also see how extremely important Sweden's participation in international contexts is and how much added value we can gain from having collaborations with other countries. The Swedish Research Council has been commissioned by the Government to be a cohesive link in this work. We're good at this, and we're contributing, just like someone said before. We know that investments in research and new knowledge lay the foundation for a strong society and enable important breakthroughs and innovations. It creates jobs from north to south, and it creates prosperity and development. And we will need the knowledge to meet major, upcoming societal challenges. We are seeing it right now, and we will see it in the future. Two thirds of economic growth in Europe between 1995 and 2007 has been attributable to research and innovation efforts. Back to the concern about the pandemic: It also contains a great deal of concern about what will happen to the willingness to invest and the ability to invest in the future. Jobs and development depend on this. Madam President, I would like I would like to mention three points that I think deserve more attention. The first is equality in research. We know that our efforts to increase the proportion of women who are professors are important. Today, barely 28% of our professors are women. No one can in any way think it's good. But it is better than it has been, and there is a conscious and strategic work at many of our higher education institutions that gives results. Since 2016, universities have been working on gender mainstreaming on behalf of the Government, and they also have a requirement to report what is being done. We can also welcome the fact that the proportion of women becoming professors has increased faster in Sweden than in the rest of the EU over the last ten years. Political decisions matter. Of course, there is much more to be done. Gender equality is not just about the representativeness of a profession within academia. It is also about resources for everyone, how to allocate funds and what is prioritised. Strong gender goggles are needed in these areas. The second thing I want to highlight is about the climate challenge, which I mean needs to be addressed every single day to ourselves and to everyone else. We have strategic research areas around this, and that's great. Few in the world have opened our eyes to the climate challenges as Greta Thunberg has done, and it is not difficult to feel pride in how she and the subject have taken their place on the global stage. But it is about what she says: How much do we listen to the researchers? How will the world take on the common agreement that Agenda 2030 entails? There are many issues, and there is at least as much concern in this area as there is for the pandemic. I think there are many of us who need to acquire more knowledge and to increase our understanding of how each of us can contribute to reducing emissions. There are many of us who must dare to make the courageous political decisions that make a difference to our future. The third point I would like to highlight concerns research environments and research infrastructure. We know how important it is to invest in test and demonstration facilities where new knowledge can be tested in practice. Fortunately, we see many good examples of this throughout our country and the world, not least now in the fight against the pandemic. In addition to making a workshop of innovations, it is about creating leading and attractive research environments. When we talk about research infrastructure, many people may primarily think about the major European cooperation projects down in Skåne, MAX IV, ESS and Open Lab Skåne for life science. But research infrastructure is so much more. One example is the Royal Library, where our committee had the privilege to come on study visits and see all the fantastic collections. This is precisely research infrastructure. Research infrastructure is about researchers having access to the best methods and tools. Examples of infrastructure include databases, research facilities, archives, biobanks and large-scale computing tools. The research carried out contributes to innovation and solutions to the challenges facing our society. Madam President, I would like Every four years, we here in Parliament decide on a research bill. We're all waiting for that. Fortunately, since the last bill, it now has a ten-year perspective, which is important for the long-term nature of what we decide on. When it comes to research, we broadly agree on the broad lines. What we usually have different views on, as we can also see in the reservations contained in the report, is about the time aspect and the desire for different directions. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to point out that we may like a lot, but the starting point for our research policy must always be what the Constitution says about the freedom of research: free choice of research problems, free development of research methods and free publication of research results. If we don't do that, we're on dangerous roads. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-189	Madam President, I would like Listen to the scientists! This is something that the climate striker Greta Thunberg and her millions of followers around the world say. That's good advice. It's about the climate. It is about the fact that the way we live is not sustainable, that we have to radically change our way of life and that we are in a hurry. It is good advice to listen to the researchers, at least when the overall research is so united. Swedish research is well ahead, not least in terms of the climate. Just before the end of the year, the government presented the first climate action plan. It, and the government's other policies, will be examined by the Climate Policy Council, which consists of Swedish researchers with a high international reputation. Sweden is at the forefront, both in research and politics, in terms of climate. But that's not enough. In the two reports that have so far come from the Climate Policy Council, the researchers note that the transformation in Sweden is progressing, but too slowly. The environmental party is the party that is pushing, but unfortunately we have too many politicians and too many parties in parliament who continue to fight against the transformation, at least as soon as there is something else between them. That's not good enough. We need to act more clearly. We must listen to the Climate Policy Council. We need to do as young people say: Listen to the scientists! Madam President, I would like Our researchers and research environments are outstanding. But we also need to ensure that our universities, our authorities, become more environmentally friendly and climate friendly also in their daily work. Greta Thunberg and the school strikers say: Listen to the researchers! They don't say, "Do as the scientists do!" According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's compilations, universities and higher education institutions are the government agencies that account for the highest emissions, especially from air travel. We need to change that. One hope is that the new digital revolution that is now taking place in the Corona crisis can lead to fewer emissions-heavy journeys and more digital meetings. Right now, more than 400 000 students sit around Sweden and follow lectures, seminars and labs via Zoom, Teams, Skype, Meet and all its name. University teachers and researchers are familiar with the same digital tools. They take in new knowledge of how to post presentation images, how to light up in front of the webcam and how to record in advance or carry out a real-time lesson over the web. That's good. The climate can't wait. Let the knowledge of the digital meetings follow into the more environment- and climate-friendly postcorona society so that more scientific conferences can be conducted digitally! This applies, by the way, to the whole of society. Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia has hit society as a whole hard and will continue to do so for a – probably considerable – time to come. The teachers are involved in taking responsibility. The transition to distance learning is an important element. The government has now provided resources so that the number of training places can be increased to meet the need when many lose their jobs or need to reset as a result of the crisis. We can stay home. We thereby reduce the risk of the infection spreading and at the same time facilitate health care. But the pandemic will require medical research – medicines and vaccines – to be stopped. On a proposal from the Green Party, the government has allocated SEK 100 million in the spring change budget to research and innovation to help halt the spread of the Corona virus and strengthen society's resilience and preparedness. The focus should be on actions that may shortly produce results in the form of medicines or vaccines, for example. We know that there are projects in our country that are far ahead. It would be fantastic if Swedish researchers could be serious about international cooperation in order to develop the medical products needed to stop the pandemic. The funds for this will be allocated through the Swedish Research Council. I hope that the call for proposals and the allocation of funds can be made as soon as possible, even if the spring amending budget has not yet been adopted by Parliament. Madam President, I would like I shall use the second part of my speech to say something about two of the motions which I myself have been involved in writing and which are dealt with in the report. In one exercise, I write that we need to focus on health care research in order to reduce the number of health injuries and increase patient safety. Harmful injuries are unfortunately common in Sweden. Every year, about 100,000 patients suffer from care injuries only in somatic care. That is an extremely high number – 100,000! This corresponds to an injury at every tenth time of care – which should be avoided. 1,200 deaths a year! At the turn of the year, the National Board of Health and Welfare launched a national action plan for patient safety. The Action Plan covers several areas, but the lack of knowledge and the lack of research is a pervasive theme in all areas. We need to know more. We need more knowledge and research on patient safety in order for the action plan to be implemented, to save lives and to reduce injuries in healthcare. My second exercise I have written together with my party colleague Elisabeth Falkhaven. It is about the need for a more active and clear policy to reduce the number of animal experiments in research and also the need for animal testing in research. In order to minimise risks in research and avoid side effects from drugs, chemicals and so on, there are often demands to conduct animal experiments. That, of course, is good. However, animal testing is expensive, cost-driven and time-intensive. They are also difficult in other ways: they often have surprisingly low reliability and precision, and of course they are also ethically problematic. When we learn that 96% of the total biomass of mammals on earth is made up of us humans and our domestic animals, that is, the animals living in the wild are only a few percent of all the world's animals, we understand that we may need to think a little more about our relationship with animals. However, reducing the need for animal testing in research will, above all, bring great benefits to our researchers, mainly because we can produce, for example, medicines faster, cheaper and more ethically. The motion has three parts. Firstly, we need a national action plan to gradually phase out animal testing. There is an EU directive from 2010; we should follow that. We need reconciliation points, targets, strategies and so on. Secondly, we need to increase resources to develop alternative methods. It is the alternative methods that will reduce the need for animal testing. Alternative methods, such as data simulations and so-called organ-on-chips or even human-on-chips, have proved to be as accurate as traditional animal experiments or even better. Thirdly, we want to extend and strengthen the 3R centre, which is currently located at the Swedish Board of Agriculture and whose funding expires at the end of the year. The task of the 3R centre is to coordinate research and method development on animal-free methods. Sweden is also at the forefront of this field and has great opportunities to become a world leader. By investing in animal-free methods, we take steps in medical research and life science and continue to establish Sweden as a leading nation in research, innovation and development. Madam President, I would like Listen to the scientists! I support the report.
i-HDctUbtSoZogHRF9k5eoKZ	Madam President, I would like We now turn to the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report 15 on nature conservation and biodiversity, as usual, one of the areas that involves the members of the Swedish Parliament most. We have dealt with 208 requests for exercise from the general period of exercise concerning, among other things, biodiversity, trade in endangered species, invasive alien species, genetically modified organisms, nature conservation directives, hunting for seals, cormorant management, predator policy, right of public access, property rights, protected forests and land, nature reserves, marine protected areas, beach protection and hiking trails. This has rendered 37 reservations. We in the Social Democrats have a reservation, No 27, which I support. The parties say they want the same thing but act very differently. Some want to do more quickly, some want to do other things a little more slowly and some want to wait. Some people want us to be able to decide for ourselves here in Sweden and ignore international agreements and conventions. If we look in the rear-view mirror at our debate on Category 20, we see major differences. If we ignore the view of climate-related investments, where the differences are greatest, and look at measures for valuable nature, we see that the government is investing 1.1 billion. At the same time, the Moderates propose reductions of 400 million, the Swedish Democrats of 215 million and the KD of 400 million. Madam President, I would like In 1972, air pollution, acidified lakes, and dangerous environmental toxins in nature were major societal problems that threatened human health. In the same year, the Social Democratic Government, led by Olof Palme, organised the first global UN environmental meeting in Stockholm. In 2022 it is 50 years since this first meeting took place. We don't know much about what happens to postcorona, but the government will work for a Swedish host for a global high-level meeting that year. Today we can see from satellites that we humans have launched that the earth has cleaner air. The smog around many of our largest cities has completely disappeared. At the same time, the observatory at Mauna Loa in Hawaii reports a new record for daily carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere. The last time the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere was so high was 3 million years ago. Several of our environmental objectives are lagging behind, and there is still a need to gather together in the face of some of the greatest challenges of our time. Ice is melting. Three million years ago the sea level was 15 metres higher than today. We should take this into account, especially given that the Land and Environment Court decided today to build a wall around Falsterbonäset. You're supposed to build a 20-mile wall to protect yourself from the sea. We can see that in recent years we have had major forest fires, which unfortunately tend to become more common. We and the cooperation parties have addressed much of the financial loss from the SD-supported M-KD budget. The protection of valuable nature and the enhancement of nature conservation and biodiversity will be strengthened this year by 600 million. In order to improve the health of our inland Baltic Sea and protect our water supply, 240 million will be invested in measures for the marine and aquatic environment in the current year. Measures against eutrophication will be implemented, including in the framework of local water management projects and through increased cooperation between the Baltic Sea countries. Around Sweden there is a large environmental debt that we need to fix. Environmental toxins in sediments are spread to the surrounding aquatic environment, which poses a threat to both human health and the environment. We can, thanks to the government base, invest an additional 65 million in the clean-up of contaminated land, water, sediments and environmentally hazardous wrecks. The fact that we need to do more to combat invasive species is clear. We have brought here, through human movements, plant and animal life that does not belong here. We need to stop that. Tallvedsnematod and emerald green ashworm beetle – these are the animals you learn about in this committee. They can accompany goods here in wooden boxes and pallets, and if they come out into nature it can cause great ecological and economic damage. The Spanish forest snail, also known as killer snails, has accompanied imported vegetables and garden plants. In less than 30 years it has been able to spread death and devastation in the country's gardens and cause great damage to agricultural land. Giant and tromsöloka, introduced as ornamental plants, are now spreading in large parts of the country. Among other things, they can cause skin damage in humans. Attempts to eradicate these species have been and are being made, but with limited success. Here I would like to mention that the Swedish Hunter Association has succeeded in its work on the raccoon dog project. It has now been developed to include beess and water turtles, which have also been spread by people around our country. Madam President, I would like Social democracy has never shuddered from a challenge. For some, it is difficult to demarcate between conservation and sustainable management. We ensured that organised wolf hunting could be carried out here in the country in 2016, 2017 and 2018. We have ensured that workable licence hunting was carried out last year and this year. We see that we need to increase cooperation on the management of the large predators with our neighbours. Animal policy is based on the bill that went through in the Swedish parliament. We Social Democrats supported most of it, but it has also brought difficulties. The government is now preparing the issue by looking at enabling greater local efforts to reduce the number of territories in some parts of the country. At the same time, we must ensure that we live up to our international commitments to a favourable conservation status. Above all, we want to ensure that we own the issue ourselves. We do not want to end up in a situation where the EU imposes a penalty on Sweden or implements measures that do not allow us to manage our predators ourselves. According to the majority of the committee, the government is to review the conditions for extending the hunting of wolves in areas where the wolf population needs to be reduced. I share the view that this should be done. That is also what the government is currently preparing. At the same time, the Committee has approved the Christian Democrats' motion, which speaks of 100 wolves throughout Scandinavia. The question must then be whether it is also the position of the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Center Party. I know that the rest of the Center Party is behind the Alliance Government's proposal for a range of 170 to 270 wolves, which I think we should continue to deal with. The overall and long-term goal of predator policy must continue to be that we achieve and have favourable conservation status for all our major predators – wolf, bear, loo, wolverine and golden eagle – and that socio-economic considerations should be taken into account. There is still a great need to protect our valuable forests and marine areas in order to ensure biodiversity, stop invasive species, ensure essential ecosystem services and enable a vibrant outdoor life. We will do what is necessary to protect and manage our nature, our animals and plants and our seas and to achieve our common goals. It can't just be pretty talk. It is only together that we can achieve these objectives.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-236	It's time for Question Time. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for the Environment and Climate Policy Isabella Lövin, Minister Åsa Lindhagen, Minister Anna Hallberg and Minister Lena Micko. Minister for the Environment and Climate Policy Isabella Lövin answers both general policy questions and questions within her own area of responsibility.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-239	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Environment and Climate Minister. Air travel is one of the sectors most affected by the Corona crisis. According to Swedavia, the number of flights at their airports has decreased by 98 percent. FRA Flyg is under reconstruction, and SAS has notified 5,000 people of termination. Airlines need support. When the government finally decided to support a crisising aviation industry, the support was, as usual, too small and too late. The whole domestic flight in southern Sweden was omitted from the support package. Aviation needs support now, but also clear information about the future. However, the government is anything but clear on this issue. The Minister for the Environment and Climate Action said in Aftonbladet that the government will make the support for aviation conditional on climate requirements. Some day later, the Minister for Infrastructure in DN said that it is not appropriate to impose climate requirements as a condition for support. So we have a government, two ministers and two different answers.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-243	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the question. Of course, it is true that the airline industry has been hit very hard by the Corona crisis. Now, virtually all flights that would go abroad are on the ground, not only in Sweden but all over the world. The government has provided 5 billion credit guarantees to the aviation industry, which is, of course, necessary for maintaining socially important infrastructure for the future. We have also procured traffic to a few destinations; this applies to Gotland and Norrland. With regard to the newspaper headlines referred to by Maria Stockhaus, I would like to ask the honourable Member to read the interviews a little more carefully. It is about the support we have already given, where we have also said that the aviation industry must meet the climate requirements in the long term. But future demands are something we will have to discuss in the future.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-246	Mr President, I would like to I can promise the Minister for Environment and Climate that I read both articles very carefully. It was very clear that there were two completely different messages that were given. Even before Corona, Arlanda had lost 11 long lines in a short time, and several regional airports fought for their survival. Much is happening when it comes to switching to electric power and biofuels, which give Swedish domestic aviation the opportunity to develop into a fossil-free example for the whole world. The aviation industry needs clear information on the future. I have a more general question. What is the government's view of the future of aviation? Today, it feels anything but safe.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-249	Mr President, I would like to I would say that, at present, there is a great deal about the future that is uncertain. We know nothing about when the coronapendem will end or what the opportunity to travel the world will be then. We're going to need the flight in the future. From the government's side, we have been very clear that the aircraft should be involved in changing so that we can meet the climate goals but also that we should be the leader. Sweden will put on the leadership shirt and make sure that the aviation becomes an example for the rest of the world in the climate change transition.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-251	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Environment and Climate Minister Lövin. A snuvy, single mother of small children with poor finances who works in home care goes to work anyway, worried and with a lump in her stomach, pressed because the government tricked her on the end of Karen's day. An hourly, foreign-born woman who cleans a hotel and was not in the checkout has already had to quit because of covid-19 and has to settle for the much lower basics from the unemployment fund. Those who are fired later this summer and who pass the government's new membership requirement of three months receive twice as much in compensation. When I asked the Prime Minister a month ago, he indicated that an entry ticket to the unemployment fund was reasonable. For hotels and restaurants, this entry ticket is now about SEK 400 to get twice as much in unemployment funds for maybe a year. This is not reasonable anywhere.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-254	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, for the question! It is quite clear that the Corona crisis has exposed major gaps in our society. There is a gap between those who have a permanent job and those who do not. I really do see that, when we learn from the crisis, we also need to pay attention to those who have precarious hours' contracts and not least those who are self-employed and self-employed. Now the government has made very strong efforts to support society so that we can make this transition. We have made improvements in the checkout, and we have also temporarily introduced the possibility of becoming a member much faster than before. Joining a trade union is also a prerequisite for better management of workers' conditions. That is not to say that you have to join a union to join the unemployment fund.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-256	Mr President, I would like to To me, it is clear why the government did not do the most reasonable and completely abolished membership requirements in the a-cassages. It was so that the LO unions could use this to recruit to their affiliates, to the union – something they cannot do under the Unemployment Fund Act; they violate the law. Some LO associations do this anyway, according to the Unemployment Insurance Inspection. The government is thus sacrificing the weakest in the labour market for LO's membership recruitment. Here the Green Party and the cooperation parties have the opportunity to put their foot down and change this and stand on the side of the weak. When do you cancel the Karen Day, and when do you remove the membership requirement?
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-258	Mr President, I would like to It is very important to be able to follow the strong recommendation of the Public Health Agency and the Government. If you have the slightest symptoms, you should be able to stay at home, and you should not suffer financially from this. Now the government is looking at ways to support the weakest in society when it comes to managing rent and subsistence during the crisis. I want to assure you that we will do what we can so that no one in this crisis will have to suffer for being poor.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-261	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Lindhagen. Some time ago, a report entitled A Year of Young Relationships was released. It is a site that focuses on violence among young people. Violence in close relationships rarely begins with the man – as it usually is – suddenly starting to strike in adulthood, but it starts when you are younger. So, in order to achieve the sixth objective of gender equality policy that men's violence against women should stop, we must start by putting an end to guys' violence against girls. For this, there are really no clear goals or strategies decided by parliament or government. The report compiles visits, talks and contacts with both perpetrators and victims of violence. It is a shaking reading that can be summed up with the words: That the need was so great we could not have imagined. I think the report has been somewhat obscured by covid-19, but I think I know that the minister has met the foundation behind the site. I'm curious how that conversation went and what the minister's plans for the future to counteract this.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-265	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Helena Vilhelmsson, Member of Parliament, for raising this issue. A very important part here is that we haven't talked enough about guys' violence against young girls. Then it is not a question of innocent teenage conflicts, but of gross violence. That is also very clear in the report. We need to take this much more seriously. What support are there for the girls, and what efforts are there to get the boys to stop practicing violence? I think we have a lot to do, and an important part of that is exactly what we are doing here right now. We in politics need to pay much more attention to this issue. As the honourable Member has heard, I have had a meeting with the Foundation of 1000 Opportunities, and we have discussed the report. We need to take this perspective with us in the tasks we give, for example, to authorities in our work of moving forward the positions of violence in different ways. This issue needs to be raised more. It was also very clear at the meeting.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-268	Mr President, I would like to I'll read what the minister says. We need to take joint action against this. I agree: if you don't talk about the problem, it doesn't exist. There are a number of proposals that have been put forward by 1000 Opportunities themselves in the report. It mentions, among other things, the judiciary. You need to identify and work crime prevention. It also mentions social services and not least the school, where you should have porn-critical conversations. How does the Minister think about that and the mission of the new sex and cohabitation education precisely when it comes to porn-critical conversations?
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-270	Mr President, I would like to We talk a lot about preventive work, not least in relation to school, and here we must also say that there are perpetrators of violence among very young people. I recently met a researcher who talked about what we are doing against these young guys. We often think that it is older people who practice violence. It's an important part of getting the young guys to stop hitting. There is so much that needs to be said. Sex and cohabitation education is of course very important. I need more than 30 seconds to answer this!
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-274	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Lena Micko. 50 per cent of those who died of covid-19 have lived in retirement homes. In March, approximately 40 per cent of all employees in municipal home care and elderly care in Stockholm were employed on an hourly basis. The same month a year ago it was exactly the same number, according to Ekott the other day. All of Timvikari's jumps converted into full-time shows that in 2019 23 percent of all the time worked was carried out by a timvikarie within the municipal elderly care centre in Stockholm. There are many similar examples around Sweden. Mr President, I would like to How can we get municipalities and private actors to strive to employ trained full-time workers in care for the elderly? This applies to both resources and education. Those who built the country should have a dignified care for the elderly.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-278	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for an important question! Clearly, we all now have a focus on how we need to improve care for the elderly. Our country is going through a serious crisis, and it is vitally important to ensure life and health. We need to help each other with that. When it comes to care for the elderly, the municipalities are ultimately responsible. The state and the municipalities must work together here. I would also like to point out that the parties have a shared responsibility. It is about employers and trade unions. There will, of course, be a need to discuss resources for elderly care, but in terms of working conditions, it is very much the case that the desire to transform services was something that both the government and then the management of SKR worked on during the last term of office. It is of great importance that we have better working conditions, so I very much hope that this work will be strengthened.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-281	Mr President, I would like to We hope that this can be a quick process. It is about resources, education and structures in the care of the elderly. This is a process that we have seen for years. It is nothing new, but the structures have looked like this for a very long time. My question is: how long can we expect until we have a more dignified care for the elderly in Sweden?
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-283	Mr President, I would like to I think that the issue is ultimately about equality. We have accepted for a long time that there have been completely different conditions for women working in the care of the elderly and men in industry. It is indeed time to give priority to this and to help each other with it. In many municipalities, priority is given to this. More and more attention is being paid to it, but the state also needs to do so in different ways.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-286	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Isabella Lövin. The Corona crisis has hit our society hard. One of the first sectors affected was aviation. Sweden is one of Europe's largest countries on the surface, and aviation is a lifeblood for large parts of the country. Pretty soon the government went in with a support package to keep life in strategically important regional airports. However, the support package has, as usual, forgotten the south-east of Sweden. Kalmar Öland Airport has been identified by the European Commission as the only particularly important airport on southern Sweden's mainland. With terrestrial public transport it is virtually impossible to get to Kalmar – Stockholm round trip in one day. The flight was crucial for locating the E-Health Agency to Kalmar. Several thousand additional jobs are feared to be lost if aviation is closed down. Will the government supplement the list of priority regional airports, so that south-eastern Sweden also has the chance to survive the Corona crisis?
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-290	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gudrun Brunegård, for the question! There is no doubt that the industry that was hit at the earliest by the Corona crisis was aviation, because of the restrictions imposed not only by Sweden but by the EU and the world at large. This is a great strain. In addition, we have a current recommendation not to travel unnecessarily across the country. The government has gone in and procured traffic to a few destinations. SAS has also announced that it will resume commercial traffic to Kiruna, Luleå and Umeå. There we are now, and we cannot make any further commitments at this stage. Now we have to wait and see how the crisis is developing in the form of recommendations from the Public Health Agency and the spread of infection in the country. The most important thing is that we ensure that the spread of infection is limited so that we can cope with this crisis together.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-293	Mr President, I would like to In addition to the fact that the airport itself is without State aid, the Government has missed the need to include ground handling companies. As it is now, SAS is being saved, while the companies managing start-ups and landings are at risk of going bankrupt. The situation is urgent. The government needs to introduce direct payments to non-governmental airports and be responsible for transport of public benefit. Ground handling companies must benefit from national air support.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-295	Mr President, I would like to The government has taken a huge responsibility for all industries that have experienced a major decline in their turnover, i.e. a fall in turnover of 30 per cent. We have announced a package of 39 billion in so-called conversion aid. There are a great many actions that can apply to all companies that have problems, such as the removal of employers' contributions, opportunities for loans and so on to cope with this crisis. It applies to all companies.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-297	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Åsa Lindhagen, who recently met civil society representatives to follow up the situation in the segregated and most vulnerable areas. A week ago, the Liberals presented some suggestions on how to strengthen the school, partly generally, partly with a focus on the vulnerable areas, where we see a far too high absence of students. Unfortunately, this picture of SVT was confirmed yesterday, which presented a report showing that the proportion of absent pupils in many municipalities is far higher than the national figure of 20%. There are municipalities with 30, 40 or 50 per cent absences among pupils, especially in the segregated and socio-economically vulnerable areas.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-300	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Member of Parliament, for very important questions! In the crisis that we are in, it becomes very clear how different people are affected, in addition to how they are affected by the disease itself, which is an extremely serious threat to people's lives and health. Not least, we see how this affects children's growing-up conditions, which the Member of Parliament lifts. The school is extremely central. Of course, it is a huge challenge and a problem that we have the absence figures described. I know that this is an issue that the Minister for Education is very committed to, because it clearly strikes hard at children's opportunities to take on knowledge if they are not in school. That goes without saying. This is one of the most important things in children's lives. This is an issue that is extremely important also for the Minister for Education. I would like to thank Roger Haddad for raising these issues. This is one of the most important things in a child's life.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-304	Mr President, I would like to These socio-economically vulnerable areas, which we are talking about, are already having a tough time. You can look at labour market figures, ill health and mental ill health. Let's see what it's like now during the pandemic. It's about access to digital tools. We see that adults are not always reached by information from the Public Health Agency, with all that it can mean. And that has negative consequences for many years to come when it comes to schoolchildren. We have proposed that assignments be given to the Swedish National Agency for Education, Social Services or Family Centres. There I have one thought: does the Government have a plan and any measures in this regard?
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-305	Mr President, I would like to We have long-term work. The government has a long-term strategy to counteract and reduce segregation in society. This covers a wide range of areas. There's no quick fix. It is about housing, labour market policy and crime. Civil society is an important part of this. This applies to a number of different areas. This work must continue. But it becomes very clear in this crisis how it hits people. I also believe that civil society is a very important part of this, but we need to talk more about not least jobs and how people can continue to have an income. We see that it hits these areas particularly hard. It's very serious for the people's situation.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-307	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Lena Micko. In these coronatides, many are worried about the economy but also worried about health and life. We now see how some companies take advantage of this concern by trying to sell products that are said to help against the Corona virus. It is totally unacceptable for some companies to skim on people's fears. I therefore wonder: what is the government doing to discourage these companies and to protect consumers?
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-308	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Stenberg raises a very important issue. Firstly, I would like to say that I find it extremely cynical to use the crisis that we have in this way. Secondly, I can say that in order to be able to claim that something helps against the corona infection you must have tried it medically, and the Medical Products Agency must have approved it. This has not happened in the cases that have been detected. This is also something to be tested: breaking laws and regulations. It is very important that we have precedents and that we can say: It is not okay to do this. It is very important that we as the government and I as the responsible minister take responsibility for it. But people also have to report when they see this.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-312	Mr President, I would like to It really sounds like the government is taking this issue seriously. It's a kind of misinformation. I have a supplementary question: is the Government aware of any information initiative on this particular issue? In general, I think that the Swedish Public Health Agency works very well with information about the spread of infection, but I am thinking of the consumer perspective. Does the Government know anything about that part?
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-313	Mr President, I would like to Yes, the Swedish Consumer Agency is working on informing about what is happening and taking into account what the Swedish Public Health Agency has discovered, and it plays a major role. However, I would also like to say that the General Complaints Board will play a major role in describing and running cases that show that laws and rules are being violated. I hope it matters.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-315	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Lindhagen, the Minister for Gender Equality. Around our country, there are children who are afraid of their parents, afraid of their father. Hundreds of thousands of children in Sweden grow up in homes where there is violence. Violence may look different, but most common is violence from a father who is directed at a mother. For many years, the women's movement has been talking about the problems that exist in relation to custody disputes and decisions on social relations and housing. For example, it may be a disadvantage for a woman to highlight in legal proceedings the existence of violence between parents, or it may be that violence is not taken into account when assessing whether a party should be given custody or association. This is a major problem that goes far beyond the affairs of the individual family. It is a political issue. This affects women and children in our country. My question to the Government is: What is the government doing about this problem?
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-318	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, the honourable Member, for a very important question. I myself have heard alarm reports from researchers, social workers and women's and girls' helpers who raise a concern that there are children that we are unable to protect. We now talk a lot about the strong parental right in Sweden. It takes place in many different areas. We have the extremely tragic case of Little Heart. We also have children who are affected by custody disputes and who, as we know, are going very badly, and we have children who are in families where there is violence. I hear stories about children who, against their will, are forced to spend time with a father, often, who may have abused both the child and the woman. This is, of course, an extremely important issue which I think we will have to look at. What about the children in these families? Are we able to protect them? Are we putting children's rights before parents' rights, or are there children we are betraying? We need to talk about that.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-321	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Much of this is about how we look at children. Children are not parents' possessions. They have their own right – they have the right to security and care. Custody disputes and social disputes are tragedies. They can have a very negative impact on everyone involved. All too often, however, we refrain from seeing how children are affected by, for example, domestic violence.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-323	Mr President, I would like to We need to do much more to protect children in this society from violence. Children, of course, suffer tremendously from being subjected to violence, but they suffer just as badly from experiencing domestic violence. Dad's violence against her mother is extremely harmful to children. If we see in a custody dispute that the child is at risk of harm by associating with one parent, we must put the child's rights first. That is what must apply. There we have, I think, some more to do in Sweden.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-325	Mr President, I would like to Swedish retail trade suffers badly from the Corona crisis. In light of this, the government's proposal for a tax on chemicals in clothing and shoes is worrying. It risks hitting hard on already-pressed fashion companies, which are also often at the global forefront in terms of sustainability. The example of the tax on electronic products discourages. Sales from Swedish companies have decreased while consumers online continue to purchase goods from other countries, with limited or no environmental benefits as a result. Now the government is in danger of making the same mistakes with clothes and shoes, as well as during a burning crisis. Has the government drawn any conclusions on the announced tax, given the crisis and the pressure that the Swedish retail sector is now in? My question goes to Minister Lövin.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-328	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for the question! We have a climate crisis. We also have a crisis in terms of biodiversity and chemicals and debris that spread in our nature. We need instruments to steer producers towards environmentally sustainable ways of producing. The chemical tax has been a good tool for actually putting a higher price on the products that are manufactured in an irresponsible way and thus rewarding those who take environmental responsibility in production, at source. It also often happens in developing countries. With regard to the proposed tax on chemicals in textiles and footwear, it is one way of rewarding those who produce in a sustainable way. We have a lot to do in that part if we only look at the discharge of chemicals in our nature, where much comes from our clothes.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-332	Mr President, I would like to There are differences of opinion as to how this pandemic occurred. However, the claim is that the sender was China, which initially seems to have darkened it. Either the infection arose because of a lack of competence in a laboratory or it was again the Chinese wet markets that were the bad guys. Either way, it is clear that these markets filled with endangered animals as well as dogs, bats and snakes, etc., are a global problem. As if the suffering of animals were not reason enough to close these markets, they are also a ticking bomb for future viruses. Mr President, I would like to Will the Minister for Foreign Trade, given this, condemn the Communist Party of China for the suffering it has caused the world and work within the international community to close the wet markets?
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-335	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Tobias Andersson, for the question. Around the rise of covid-19 there are still discussions and speculations. This is a possible emergence, and several other countries have had other input on the subject. When it comes to Sweden's view on this, it is extremely important that we have a management of animals and food that meets all forms of sustainability aspects in our trade. There are also increasing demands on this in our free trade agreements. I therefore see that trade is a crucial platform for making demands in this regard also on China and on other countries. Around the type of animal handling that Tobias Andersson describes is of course an important sustainability aspect to lift up and influence in our foreign trade, among other things with China.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-338	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Lena Micko. Yesterday I met parts of the SKR group. I also sent out some questions in social media about which question I would ask Lena Micko and got about 50 different answers. What keeps coming back are questions from municipalities and regions about how to compensate for the coronapndemin. The government has promised some compensation, but all representatives of regions and municipalities are very uncertain about what it will contain. One said that the announcement of what will be compensated will come on the last November of this year. I just want to see if that's true. We know that public transport is bleeding by 1 billion a month. The government still wants to keep public transport up so that people can go to work without sitting so close. I know there are also meetings between SKR and the government on these issues, but the Government may be able to give a little clearer information about the future.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-342	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Peter Helander, for an important question! I myself have many conversations every week with local councillors and regional councillors in the country and am well aware of the issues that are relevant. I think we will have to help each other in many areas. At the same time, the government has made it clear that the government will compensate for the extraordinary costs of the Corona infection. It has to do with health and care costs. When this is paid out and what it looks like, we have established, but it is also a discussion with the country about how it works in practice. The government always listens to that. We're not closing doors. With regard to the continuation of the conditions for ensuring that we have good local welfare, which is so important, we also need to constantly in dialogue with the sector to see if any other changes need to be made. We're always ready to listen to it.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-346	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin. There is a time after the Corona, and we now have a chance to actually turn society into a more sustainable one in terms of climate, environment and social conditions. Now there is a unique chance to invest in a greener, cleaner and smoother future. I would like to quote Isabella Lövin, who writes in Svenska Dagbladet: [...] This cooperation needs to be deepened and accelerated. ..................................................... My question to Minister for the Environment and Climate Change Isabella Lövin is: Will the government earmark state aid for measures under the industry's own action plans within the framework of Fossil-free Sweden?
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-350	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jessica Thunander, for a very important question! Now we are in the midst of the crisis, and the government is focusing on mitigating the effects of the virus. But there will come a time after the crisis when we need to build a stronger economy and a more resilient society. We have another crisis going on at the same time, and that is the climate crisis. Linked to this and other exploitation of earth's resources, we also have a biodiversity crisis. The government has already started work on planning ahead, and it is very good that we have that foundation to stand on. With the help of Fossil free Sweden we have 21 action plans from different industries for how to switch to fossil freedom. We will be able to use these plans to build Sweden stronger and get the economy going again, and we also need to get rid of what is unsustainable in our society. Much of it has been exposed during this crisis, including our great dependence on fossil fuels.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-353	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Lindhagen. Last week, the Government promised 100 million to various non-profit organisations to face increased vulnerability due to the outbreak of covid ‐ 19. The number of callers for women's and girls' hotlines has increased by 30-40 per cent recently, which indicates a need for increased support. We Christian Democrats welcome increased support for women's shelters but are concerned that it will not be a real addition. In the past, increased support from the state to women's shelters has unfortunately meant that many municipalities withdraw their support. My question to the Government is how she will ensure that there is not again a zero-sum game in terms of resources for women's shelters. These grants are to be applied for on the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's website, but I have not seen that the possibility of applying for this money has come up yet. It's urgent!
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-356	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the Member of Parliament for a very important question! Of course, it is totally unacceptable if we are shooting money at national level to combat men's violence against women and boys' violence against girls, as we talked about earlier, and so the municipal level is withdrawing its resources. We have municipal self-government, but it is clear to me that the money we bring in should go to vulnerable women and to combat this violence. I would like to make that very clear, and I think we are in complete agreement on this across party boundaries. In general, there is a great deal of commitment to this policy. There are also many municipalities around Sweden that have a huge commitment to these issues, so it is important to keep an eye on this. My priority has been to get this money out as soon as possible, because that's when they're useful. Now it is up to the National Board of Health and Welfare to file applications, and we have been very clear from the political side that this money does not do any good in the state treasury, but only when they reach women's and girls' shelters and other organisations.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-359	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Hallberg. In a conversation with entrepreneurs in Värmland, a visit to Charlottenberg was described, where the border trade with Norway has a turnover of approximately SEK 3 billion each year, like rising into a bad horror movie. It was total death. In Strömstad in northern Bohuslän, more than 1,400 people work in commerce. Without the border trade, 1 200 jobs disappear. Only the Norwegian border trade has a turnover of approximately SEK 25 billion, which means a mark of approximately SEK 2 billion each month. I know that the question is very complex. But in the current situation, we need strengthened Nordic cooperation. Now there are very worrying signals from Norway that we are going to have closed borders for another two months. My question to the Government is what the Government and the Minister will do to find a good solution to this.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-364	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Teimouri for the question. There is a very dramatic decline in border trade. It is an important industry for our border regions, just as Arman Teimouri describes, and therefore also a very important and urgent issue for me both as Minister of Foreign Trade and as Nordic Minister of Cooperation. All Nordic countries are keen to protect border trade. In this situation, when we even have military on the border between Sweden and Norway, it is a unique situation. I am very concerned about this. I have made contact with all my fellow ministers and asked them to set up extra meetings for this in the Nordic countries. Jag will also be in direct contact with my Nordic ministerial colleagues one by one, including in Norway, because I also see worrying tendencies that this may be drawn out and that we need to find a solution to the issue. It is a difficult issue, but we cannot help dealing with it. I have been very active, and I will perhaps need to be even more active in the future to try to resolve this.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-368	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Civil Affairs Lena Micko. The Corona virus affects the whole of Sweden, but in different ways and in different ways around the country. The country's regions and municipalities also have different conditions. How does the government ensure that the decisions now taken to deal with the spread of infection take into account the different conditions of the country?
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-371	Mr President, I would like to I thank Sultan Kayhan for the question. It is very important to put your ear to the ground and find out what it really looks like around our country. The county administrative boards play a major role here. They're the state's extended arm around the country. They regularly compile up-to-date situational images for how it looks. Together with the municipalities and together with society as a whole – all actors, companies and others – they look at critical issues that the government then brings with them in its analysis. I am very pleased that this cooperation works so well. It plays a major role in enabling us to continue to give the right priority to what needs to be done. I hope that this is cooperation that will be strengthened and that we will live on in a good way for the whole of our society, so that we can continue to help each other in the future.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-374	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Isabella Lövin. As a new Member of this House, I would like to ask a question that is very close to my heart. A well-functioning schooling is one of the most important protection factors our children can have. Education and social relations are of great importance to all children, but especially to those children who come from tough conditions. Covid-19 has meant that many students have been home from school because of symptoms, because of fear of infection and sometimes because of ignorance about the rules that apply. In my hometown of Malmö, sometimes up to 40 percent of the students have been at home at the same time. I am concerned that not enough has been done to support these students who are in the final year of primary school.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-379	Mr President, I would like to I thank Johanna Öfverbeck for a very important question. Indeed, we are in a probationary period when a great deal of distance teaching is taking place for high school students. But we've kept the primary schools open. It is true that in some areas, in particular, there is a lot of absence among students. In some cases it is perhaps because they have mild symptoms. But in some cases it is perhaps because the parents are concerned that the children are going to school and may become infected and that there is a concern about the pandemic itself. Here, schools have a very important task to inform about what applies and that the school is open. It is also very important that schools offer the help needed for students to get their final grades. It is mandatory for the principals to organise a school of praise for those at grade 8 and grade 9 who are at risk of not becoming eligible for national vocational programmes in upper secondary school. In addition, the principals may volunteer to organise other school of learning for students. For this it is possible to apply for state grants.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-384	Mr President, I would like to The Corona virus has spread rapidly throughout the world, reaping thousands upon thousands of lives. At the same time, it has caused an enormous slowdown in the world economy. Another virus that is now spreading rapidly and at risk during the Corona crisis is protectionism. It is a serious virus, whose customs and trade barriers are particularly likely to affect a small export-dependent and open country such as Sweden. Protectionism is a serious economic threat. However, it will also be a serious health threat if access to medicines, for example, is restricted by trade restrictions and increased by customs duties. Unfortunately, even during the Corona crisis, the EU has contributed to protectionism by introducing export restrictions on protective equipment to countries outside the EU. EU action risks contributing to a dangerous domino effect. Therefore, Sweden must now turn its fist on the table and say no to export restrictions. Will the government do that? That is my question to the Minister for Foreign Trade.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-387	Mr President, I would like to I thank Johan Hultberg for the question. I fully agree that the Corona crisis has reinforced the protectionist tendencies that we saw before the Corona crisis, and they have also entered the European Union. The barriers to trade that have arisen within the EU, that is, export restrictions, we have pointed out very clearly, both bilaterally on my part, between ministers and with the Commission. The Commission has been very clear in this respect that it does not accept these restrictions. But it is in the internal market, and we are doing everything we can to remove them. Then I assume that Johan Hultberg also refers to restrictions against third countries. There Sweden has been the strongest voice because we are fundamentally against this type of restrictions. In order not to completely lose our vote on this, we have agreed to such restrictions if they have been limited, and they also require the removal of all restrictions on the internal market. They shall be limited in time and shall be limited in scope. There, too, we have achieved success in our demands.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-390	Mr President, I would like to After many if and but and after the initiative of the Swedish Democrats and the pressure from the opposition, the government has finally come forward with direct payments to the many companies that have suffered severe turnover losses in the suites of covid-19. Unfortunately, very many fundamentally viable companies have already not only been destroyed but allowed to perish with the good memory of the government. The proposal put forward by the government at a press conference last week is most necessary and quite self-evident. But it still leaves a lot of issues in the air. The Swedish Democrats proposed direct payments already a month ago. However, the government has still not delivered a proposal to the Finance Committee to take a position on. Isabella Lövin, how many companies does the government expect to go bankrupt unnecessarily before we have support in place?
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-395	Mr President, I would like to I thank Dennis Dioukarev for the question. We have come forward with historically large support packages over an extremely short period of time to save jobs, businesses and people's livelihoods. It is such a long list that I will not be able to list in one minute all the aid we have advanced. But it is aid for short-term lay-offs, so that a company can keep its employees by paying a large part of its salary. It is about the removal of employers' contributions and various subsidies for the rent, and it is not least about sickness pay liability. According to the Institute of Economic Development, we have thus saved 175 000 jobs. If the government hadn't done this, we would have lost 175 000 jobs. We are prepared to continue supporting companies so that we can manage the jobs.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-399	Mr President, I would like to I would like to add to the previous discussion that we are in a crisis, but that it also provides an opportunity to transform into a more sustainable society. Especially when we go in with state aid money, we must, of course, demand that companies also perform something for climate change. In France, Air France is now required, as it provides many billions of state aid, to reduce emissions and not compete with the train on short distances. Here in Sweden, the government has decided on 5 billion in an aid package for flights, of which 1 1⁄2 billion to S tatsrådet Annika Strandhäll(S). I do not think that Maria Stockhaus really received answers to her questions about aviation and climate requirements, Mr President, so I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action: what new demands will you be making on the aviation sector as you go in with aid money? Can the Minister give a concrete example of new climate requirements for the aviation industry?
i-UBjmLa2Gjpa7ECPPsvjzhA	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Jens Holm! The answer to Jens Holm is that regarding the emergency package of credit guarantees for flights that we have come forward with, it says in the bill that the government expects the aircraft to switch to the climate targets that we have decided. This is the focus, and there we have a common climate target that has been decided here in the Swedish Parliament. At the same time, we are seeing how the aviation industry is in an extremely difficult situation right now, and I am not ruling out the fact that the aviation industry will come to the government with further requests for support. If and when you do that, we will take that discussion, because it is a matter of long-term changes to meet the climate targets. That is why, as I have said, this is an opportunity for us not to forget the long-term objectives, but for all resources to strive in that direction.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-403	Mr President, I would like to At the end of April, the Ministry of Finance presented a proposal to introduce energy and carbon dioxide tax on certain biooils for heat production from 2021. It is a tax that will lead to increased use of fossil fuels, and it is expected to increase emissions of about 4 600 tonnes of CO2 per year. The government itself acknowledges that the tax proposal will lead to increased use of fossil fuels. Biooils, which are porridge-based, receive the same energy and carbon dioxide tax as their fossil counterparts. This happens at the same time as many players in the industry are investing millions of dollars to reset their plants so that they can go on biooils. Does the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action believe that it is worthy of a government that claims to have an ambitious climate policy not even to test the possibility of obtaining an extended approval from the European Commission of the continued tax exemption for bio-oils? While I have ten seconds left to speak, on behalf of all border residents, I would like to thank the Minister for Trade for doing everything she can to reopen the border with Norway.
i-6voCHzieiPnTwA2PutJkLs	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson! From the government's side, we want to use the tax instrument to be able to cope with a change and meet the climate targets. We have also agreed in the January agreement on a green tax exchange of 15 billion, and we are in it. We have already implemented part of the green tax shift by removing the CO2 tax reduction on fossil fuels in the cogeneration sector. This has led, among other things, to the coal power plant in Värtahamnen in Stockholm having decided to bring forward its closure – it closed already before Christmas – due to the increased costs of paying carbon tax. This also means that there will be more fair competition between biofuels and fossil fuels, and we will continue to work to promote what is sustainable for the climate – which is biofuels, not fossil fuels.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-409	Mr President, I would like to The Parliament is now preparing the European Commission's communication on the green card. The Green Paper is a growth strategy aimed at transforming EU policies into a fair and prosperous society with a modern, resource efficient and competitive economy with net zero emissions by 2050. We Social Democrats see that the Greens can bring great climate benefits and better competitive conditions, not least for our Swedish industry, but now we are receiving alarming signals that both Swedish democrats here in the Swedish parliament and several conservatively-governed countries in the EU want to push the green foreward. You want to rework it completely or remove it. How does the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action view the possibility of implementing the green gift in the light of the scepticism that has begun to grow?
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-411	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a very important question, Isak From! It is a question of the future, not only for Sweden and the EU, but for the whole world and humanity, that we are able to steer away from unsustainable production patterns and dependence on fossil fuels. Sweden is pushing very hard for the Green Deal, the Green Deal, to be at the heart of green reconstruction when the European Commission comes with rescue packages for EU Member States. There are Member States which have expressed themselves very sceptical about this; they think that we should remove it, remove the price of carbon dioxide and just devote ourselves to recovering the economy. However, it would certainly be wasting both time and money that we do not have. We have an opportunity to turn into something much more sustainable and resilient that can also give both Sweden and the EU competitive advantages in a world where we see that the climate crisis is only getting bigger and bigger.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-415	Mr President, I would like to The EU's internal market is hugely important for Sweden, but not just for us – it is one of the EU's most important strengths. It is therefore very sad to see how the EU failed to deal with the Corona crisis at first. Instead of protecting the internal market, we saw many examples of the opposite: I just need to mention France and Mölnlycke, and you know what I am talking about. Everyone I have heard has regretted this, and yet ten countries still have barriers to trade. The Government just answered a question that we in Sweden have been clearly opposed to this but that we have not seen results. I believe that the European Union must ensure that the internal market is protected and that it must counteract the protectionist behaviour we are now seeing. Trade is the solution, not the problem. I would like to continue with the question that my colleague Johan Hultberg had, because I do not think he received an answer. It is about export restrictions, and Johan Hultberg's question was whether Sweden will say no next time this comes up. What is the government's attitude towards continuing export barriers?
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-418	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for two important questions, Jessika Roswall! If we start with the internal market, I fully agree with the honourable Member that it is totally unacceptable that the internal market has not been working now. Sweden has taken strong action against the restrictions that have been in place – both in practice bilaterally, as I mentioned, but also in relation to the Commission. We see that the opportunity for the Commission or an individual country to go ahead and report this to the European Court of Justice is a long process, but we should not back away from it if necessary. However, we must ensure that there is pressure on these countries so that there is rapid action and not just waiting for court proceedings. So we are doing everything we can there, and I see that the Commission is on our side in this. As far as restrictions on third countries are concerned, Sweden has, as I said, been a clear vote on whether further restrictions will be imposed in the next decision. I do not want to speculate on how we will stand up to it, but we have reduced the number of products covered and had it shortened in time. My hope and expectation is that there should not be after this period of restrictions.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-421	Mr President, I would like to The number of deaths in covid-19 continues to increase, and today the figure for our country will in all likelihood exceed 3 000. Most of these are 70 years of age or older, and half of them lived in special housing. The government has completely failed to protect our elderly from the infection. This means that many people are suffocating to death on their homes right now, without access to either oxygen or other care they need.
i-CL157UsE924377o1cbMTB8	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs From Utterstedt, for the question. It is clear that we all feel a great deal of sadness over the deaths caused by the pandemic. Obviously, there are shortcomings that we need to evaluate in the strategy that we have tried to follow, which is about protecting the elderly. This also applies to municipalities, which are responsible for care for the elderly. Some of the elements that we will need to look at are the training and skills of those working in the care of the elderly, the reasonableness of their working conditions, the existence of permanent employment and the continuity of those with whom they work. Of course, we will need to evaluate what has happened carefully and learn from it.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-425	Mr President, I would like to A month ago, the government promised that Sweden would start a large-scale corona testing of the population within a few weeks, but nothing has yet happened. Systematic testing is a very important measure in the fight against the virus in order to know how extensive the spread of the virus is and to limit it. Countries that have done well, such as Taiwan and South Korea, started early with tests and contamination detection. Denmark has managed to test more than twice as many as Sweden, and Norway has tested three times as many.
i-US7rdwEu79ZH9PjwEfBd95	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Boriana Åberg, for the question! At the turn of March – April, the Government commissioned the Public Health Agency to develop a national testing strategy to ensure that the number of tests is increased. On this occasion, approximately 12 000 people per week were tested. Now we see how the number tested increases week by week – week 18 was tested for over 29,000 individuals. There are countries that have tested more than Sweden, but there are also countries that have tested less. However, we will try more. The government has contributed SEK 1 billion for increased testing. It is not a lack of money that means that the testing has not increased any more. We intend to ensure that it continues to increase so that there are no restrictions whatsoever on this, particularly in the case of socially important staff, elderly care staff and so on.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-431	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Foreign Trade Anna Hallberg. Not only do we have a crisis of infection in the world, but we also have an economic crisis which is largely due to major problems in our foreign trade. As we have heard earlier today, we have seen problems in the European internal market. We also have problems within the World Trade Organisation, and we see increasing protectionism. Then there is Sweden, which is always a strong free trade friend and which is very export-dependent. My question to the Government is how the Government views the opportunities of free trade postcorona and what the government is doing to help get international trade back on track.
i-64cBpNsRLeSDkS89RL4Bsi	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Eriksson, for the question! As I said before, the Corona crisis has really reinforced the protectionist tendencies we saw before the crisis. We had major trade challenges before the crisis, and now they have been strengthened both in the EU and globally. This is very worrying. I am also concerned that they are now saying that they should move home production, shop less and quit their respective countries. That is not the solution, but the solution is to act more. Having open borders and fair and free trade are still crucial, even after the crisis. Otherwise the wheels stop, and it would also disadvantage developing countries and countries that will not then be able to rise out of poverty. The fact that we are going to have open and free trade is also about solidarity. Then it is also a question of the EU and we as a country within the EU having to act on the global and international stage – not least through the WTO, which must be strengthened now. The WTO was in crisis before the pandemic, and it is in an even deeper crisis now. Now we have to take a new approach to the global arena, where Sweden will be a clear and strong voice.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-437	Mr President, I would like to It is nothing new in earth's history that species die out; in a longer perspective it is estimated that 99 percent of all species that have emerged have died out. However, it is now happening at a higher rate than before, and man is a major reason for it. Last year, Ipbes, the United Nations Organisation for Biological Diversity, presented a report confirming that biodiversity loss is one of the world's acute environmental problems. It is important to say that the really big threats exist globally, and there Sweden must act to put pressure on those countries that have a non-existent or directly harmful policy for nature and the environment. A few weeks ago came the new red list of endangered species in Sweden. The greater number of species threatened there can partly be explained by the fact that more species have been assessed, but we can also see that the proportion of endangered species has increased. The Red List is therefore important to follow carefully in the future. This applies not least to the factors identified as important, such as the presence of invasive species and the vulnerable situation in our marine environment. It is noted that the marine environment is particularly vulnerable but also that we know far too little about it. Therefore, the Moderates have focused particularly on measures for the marine and aquatic environment and against eutrophication, among other things. We have also pointed out that the research funder Formas should be given priority in terms of the impact of climate change on the marine environment and biodiversity of the sea and water. Together with our investment in climate and environmental aid, this can make a real difference to the situation in both the Swedish waters and the oceans, while for example the government's plastic bag tax is an empty blow in the air as it does not at all address the global problem of plastics in the oceans – it is not the Swedish plastic bags that are the problem. Mr President, I would like to One issue that is urgently relevant in these times is the illegal trafficking of wild animals. We do not know for sure how the corona infection occurred, but there are suspicions that link it to the animal markets in China. Quite apart, the unacceptable conditions prevailing in these markets, with domestic animals in cages crowded with wild animals under unreasonable and unhygienic conditions, have now been brought to light. In addition to being unworthy of animals and their well-being, these terrible places can give rise to contagions which, at worst, can create global pandemics at the risk of human life. We must act against the illegal trade in wild and endangered animals and put pressure on China and other countries which are playing a blind eye to criminal activity and which allow these markets. Here we should lift every stone to put pressure through the WHO and trade agreements or in other forms. Mr President, I would like to This is a report with many different parts, and I intend to dwell for a while on the wolf. Today, the committee is calling for the government to review the conditions for extending the hunting of wolves in areas where the wolf population needs to be reduced. The committee believes that the decisions on licence hunting need to take into account the democratically adopted decision on the target of the wolf tribe. Account should also be taken of the impact on the size of the elk strain of predators and of the impact on people's safety and quality of life. The committee notes that none of our predators on the Scandinavian Peninsula are currently at risk of extinction. In the committee's view, therefore, a continued targeted and selective hunt for wolf can be carried out without affecting the wolf's favourable conservation status. The Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences and the Skandulv project also show that it is reasonable based on the current level of the wolf tribe. All parties tend to emphasise the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture. In the crisis situation that society is in now, there is increasingly talk of the role of agriculture in self-sufficiency and preparedness. Then we must also be aware of the negative effect of a large concentration of wolf on our farmers. Today we are also discussing biodiversity in nature as a whole. We see areas where grazing animals disappear and animal production is closed down because of the wolf, which in turn damages biodiversity in particular. The announcement to the government is therefore important. But the Moderates want to go further. Two years in a row there has been no hunting of wolves, although the number of wolves is estimated to be greater than the number agreed by the Riksdag. This is unacceptable and must be changed. We believe that the wolf tribe needs to be reduced to the lower target of 170 individuals in Parliament for some time in order to reduce the concentration where it is at its highest but also to build acceptance for the predatory administration. Future administration needs better harmonisation with the people who will live and work in wolf areas. Mr President, I would like to Some animals have a major impact on biodiversity and other animal and human habitats. The increased number of seals along the Swedish coastline causes serious damage to coastal fishing. The parliament has pushed the government ahead of it, and now the possibility of licence hunting on grey seals has been introduced. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal for a hunting time review has also proposed that the hunting regulation be amended to allow for the licensing of all species of seal, i.e. chubby seals and bays. It is important, and it would have been good if Parliament had been able to express its clear support for this, because the damage they cause to catch and fishing gear is similar to that caused by grey seals. It would not threaten seal stocks, but it would reduce conflicts between the fishing industry and the seals. The Baltic Sea and Western Sea cormorants also have a significant impact on fish stocks, partly because they eat large quantities of fish which also fishermen fish for, and partly because they cause significant damage to gear. For the cormorants, regional management plans need to be established in all the counties concerned in Sweden in order for the administration to function better, and protection hunting should be allowed on cormorants in fishing areas during closure times. Finally, an issue which is also important in the light of the crisis we are in and which has highlighted the need for food security. Modern plant breeding is a question of the future in terms of global food supply, but also in terms of the environment and climate. Genetically modified organisms, GMOs, contribute to crops gaining new desired properties, such as a larger vitamin content and increased resistance to damage attacks and that they tolerate drought better. However, not a single GMO has been approved for cultivation in the EU since the new regulatory framework was introduced in the early 2000s. It is clear that genetic engineering legislation is outdated and needs to be modernised and, in addition, made more technology neutral in order to enable greater food security and less environmental and climate impact from agriculture. The Parliament addressed an announcement to the government in 2019 to achieve precisely a modernised and technology-neutral genetic engineering legislation. Of course, we expect the government to work urgently to get this in place in the European Union. Finally, Mr President, today's debate is about protecting biodiversity so that nature can resist and recover from pressures without taking serious damage and about biodiversity as a prerequisite for the functioning of ecosystems and for the ecosystem services that we benefit from every day. But this must take into account the social and economic conditions of people in our country and their quality of life, livelihood and everyday life. We Moderates are behind all our reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 5.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-462	Mr President, I would like to As far as nature conservation and biodiversity are concerned, we Swedish democrats support all our reservations, but for time-winning, I only support our reservation 33 on environmental measures in forestry. Mr President, I would like to This year's edition of the Red List includes the forest hare, birch trachea and laughtergull. They are not rare, but they have decreased in extent. When using the Red List, our proposals must take account of its different categories. The categories of acutely threatened and strongly threatened pose a high risk of the species disappearing, while the categories of vulnerable and closely threatened present a significantly lower risk. Motivating the stopping of a felling with the presence or expected presence of a red-listed species is far too vague. On the other hand, the presence of an acute threatened species should give rise to action. This is one of the major weaknesses of the key biotopes definition that it was from the beginning. Mr President, I would like to The pine forests dominate both Sweden's nature and the environmental debate. But out of ten forest-living species that have disappeared in the last 50 years, nine had their main body in Götaland, especially in Skåne, and the tenth in a Mälarö. They lived predominantly in deciduous forests bordering on the agricultural environment. This indicates where the focus should now be on environmental protection: that landowners who want to create, manage and maintain suitable biotopes for endangered species and, in the second place, strongly threatened species must be given priority and fair compensation. It is also very important to maintain a profitable farm with open landscapes throughout Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Almen and the box are now redlisted as acutely and strongly threatened. Alm and ash are host trees for at least a hundred other organisms, so many species are at stake here. A targeted plant breeding programme is therefore needed to create resistance to elm disease and ash spore disease. I mention this as an example of how targeted measures against the most acutely threatened species can create very great environmental benefits. Mr President, I would like to In a subtropical or tropical deciduous forest, hundreds of tree species and even more other species associated with the trees often live. They have developed together over millions of years and are generally very disturbed. Endurance of forestry in this type of forest has proved very difficult. After several rounds of picking up the most valuable trees, the forest often turns to pastures, farms or plantations. International researchers have therefore developed so-called green infrastructure with the aim of protecting the core values that may remain of remaining forests, which are often state owned, and to establish pathways of dissemination between them. In these circumstances, it is a good model that we support and think that Sweden should support. However, green infrastructure is not adapted to Swedish forests. The northern coniferous forest belt, from Norway to eastern Russia, is characterized by a long history of repeated ice ages and forest fires. The species have been adapted to recolonisation over small and large distances, over a short and long period of time. This has probably contributed greatly to the fact that we in Scandinavia have been able to use our forests for hundreds of years without significant loss of biodiversity. Our forest is not fragmented. It starts in Skåne and ends in Norrbotten. However, ownership is fragmented. Environmental protection must be based on this very principle, because it is actually an asset. Mr President, I would like to County administrative boards' reports on green infrastructure are called action plans. They contain maps with plotted thought cores, often produced without consultation with landowners and often containing most of their end-of-life forests. If these plans are implemented on individual land, they will seriously damage the desire to pursue sustainable forestry. It will be like with the key biotopes but on a larger scale. Ongoing ownership investigation hopefully leads to this never being allowed to happen, because the largest asset we have in Swedish environmental protection is interested and long-term landowners and users. Mr President, I would like to Today, seal meat and skins cannot be sold within the EU. Not taking advantage of the body is perceived by many hunters as unethical and reduces the desire for hunting. It is therefore positive for both fish and fishermen that the Riksdag has decided that the government will develop a strategy to try to get the EU to create an exemption for the sale of seal products. We also want to extend the license hunt for seal to chubby seals and coves, as these populations have grown too large and the problem is the same as for grey seals. As far as the cormorants are concerned, it, like the seal, has a very negative impact on fish stocks and destroys the living conditions of many species where they breed, in the archipelago as well as in lakes. More protection hunting is needed, but the cormorant is hard to hunt. An effective and gentle method is to dip the eggs in paraffin oil, which prevents foetal development. This method should therefore be used to a greater extent. Sweden should promote derogations from the EU Birds Directive on general hunting for cormorants. We also want the EU's Species and Habitats Directive, as well as the Birds Directive, to be revised so that more concrete management decisions are transferred to the countries concerned. At EU level, there should be horizontal rules. Mr President, I would like to We've already heard about the wolf concentration. It is high in large parts of Svealand and southern Norrland. Where hunting, outdoor life and animal husbandry have previously been important parts of people's lives, one now has great and justified concerns about the safety of domestic animals. This affects the quality of life in the country, and we have therefore supported the committee initiative on increased licence hunting. The Wolf's reference value for favourable conservation status was established in 2013 by the Riksdag as between 170 and 270 individuals. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has later considered that at least 300 wolves are needed for favourable conservation status, but administrative decisions cannot be built at levels that are contrary to the Riksdag's decision. Since the 2013 parliamentary decision, we have recommended that 170 individuals should be the reference level for the administration. It is a well-founded level, and as mentioned, it is based, among other things, on Skandulv's 2012 research report. With a low reference level, it is possible to carry out more frequent licence hunting, which can be targeted at areas where the concentration is too high. We Swedish democrats believe that sensible use is beneficial to a rich nature. The combination of agricultural land and forests of different ages, with thought-out transition zones between agriculture and forestry, generates high species wealth. It is important to create the conditions for more profitable agriculture throughout the country. We are convinced that it is the owners who should be the main characters in nature conservation, with the support of the authorities. We therefore all have a lesson to do in this House: to fight harder for Swedish forestry and agriculture and put the users in focus, not the officials.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-481	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that I naturally support all the reservations expressed by the Center Party in the report, but for the time to come, I only call for reservations 21 and 30. Recently, most of our lives have revolved around the coronapndemin and its consequences for people, jobs and entrepreneurship. What we can see, when we're about to keep social distance, is that people spend more time in nature. For those of us who live in rural areas, social distance is nothing new. We already live sparsely, close to nature and have not been hit as hard as people in big cities who live close to each other. There is much I would like to say about the issues in the report and about how we, as decision-makers, need to have a holistic approach in which we can protect certain things but also take into account the people affected by our decisions. Of course, I will not mention everything in the report, but I have selected certain parts. The Center Party wants those who seem close to nature to be an obvious part of the work to preserve biodiversity. Therefore, we want to develop methods and instruments based on the assumption that individual landowners can and want to be involved in the work on biodiversity and be replaced for the benefit they contribute to. An open and rich agricultural landscape and active forestry are a prerequisite for biodiversity. Åkermarken is an invaluable resource in Sweden. Unfortunately, we see that valuable arable land is being exploited for the construction of homes, industries and infrastructure. Of course, we will have to build on arable land in the future, but the Swedish Board of Agriculture points out in a number of reports that the long-term values of arable land often have to stand back for more short-term economic values. In order to preserve arable land and reduce its exploitation, we need to increase the protection of arable land. Mr President, I would like to Protecting valuable nature and endangered species is a key task of environmental policy. In order for nature conservation to be sustainable in the long term, it needs to be based on the legitimacy and participation of those concerned. With ownership, there will be a responsibility and interest in long-term management of the resource you own. Engaged landowners and users are the most sustainable way to care for our nature. Conservation requires both the protection of ownership and use rights and a balance between conservation and use. It is often in the grazed pasture, in the for generations managed forest and in the meadow where the grass is hit that the greatest natural values and biodiversity exist. The Center Party therefore believes that forestry legislation should continue to be based on equal objectives of farming and conservation. This principle has been successful in developing both the forest industry and increased environmental protection. Valuable nature, of course, may need more protection, but at the same time it often means that ownership and use are restricted. It must be self-evident that both owners and users should be replaced for the restrictions imposed. Several of these issues have been included in the January agreement. These issues are now being investigated, and legislation will be in place during the term of office. Mr President, I would like to An important part of the hunt is the work to combat the establishment of invasive species. If we are to succeed in this work, we need a classification that determines which species are invasive. Today, for example, cormorants are protected under the EU Birds Directive, although it is not natural in the Swedish environment and causes damage to the Swedish ecosystem. Due to the extent of the cormorant and its damage to nature, the Center Party wants the protection hunt on cormorants to be extended. In recent years, the stock of saithe has increased, which has had a negative impact on fishing. The decision to amend the hunting regulation in summer 2019, which gave the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency the opportunity to decide on the licensing of seals, was a step in the right direction. However, licence hunting should be extended to both bays and chubby seals, as the consumption of fish by seals is a serious threat to cod and needs to be restricted. Mr President, I would like to The government has for a few years been trying to implement the EU's new weapons directive, which aims to stop terrorism and violence. The Center Party believes that it is important to reverse every stone in order to act against terrorism and violence, but in this context it is important to address the issue of illegal weapons, not legal weapons that are handled responsibly. For the Center Party, it is important that the implementation of the EU arms directive does not go far beyond what the directive requires and does not involve unnecessary hassle for law-abiding hunters and sportsmen. Mr President, I would like to The wild boar strain has grown explosively in recent years. Wild boars cause damage to arable land, increase the number of traffic accidents and even damage young forest. The Center Party therefore believes that a new authority, the Wildlife Agency, should be set up to deal more effectively with the current shortcomings in game management. The Center Party wants game meat to be promoted as a resource instead of talking about meat as a burden. To make this possible, we want, among other things, simplified rules that make it easier to get game meat for individuals, shops, public kitchens and restaurants. This is already under way, and I had the pleasure of telling you about this a few weeks ago. Mr President, I would like to The report contains a motion on joint management of the Scandinavian wolf tribe, written by Christian Democrat Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson. A motion on the same subject I myself and my colleague Daniel Bäckström from Värmland have written. The Moderate Pål Jonson from Värmland has also written a motion with the same theme. Unfortunately, the motion for joint management of the Scandinavian wolf tribe has not led to an announcement. We believe that through joint management with Norway we could reduce the wolf population where it is most dense, which is entirely in accordance with what the Riksdag has decided on before. Last week, the DNA inventory of wolf showed that we had 353 individuals. Some of these, of course, move across the Swedish-Norwegian border. Norway usually reports nearly 100 individuals annually. Since we're not going to double counting the individuals, we'll end up with about 400 individuals. Scientists say that about 10 percent of the individuals are not found in the DNA inventory. That would mean that we have 440 individuals plus the puppies that have been born during the year. If the wolf strain were treated as a common Scandinavian wolf strain, the total number of wolves could be less than today with the result that conflict could be mitigated. This would give the victims greater acceptance of the wolf, which was also part of the previous parliamentary decision. When the government does not follow the decisions made by the Riksdag, the entire confidence in the Swedish predatory administration is undermined. Today's division into several administrative areas leads in practice to an increasing concentration of wolf in parts of the country, as the distinction between administrative areas tends to become a barrier rather than a support for the management of the wolf population. In order to take into account both the conservation of the wolf population in Sweden and the combined predatory pressure for people's opportunities to live and operate in predatory areas, we in the Center Party want a situation in which we achieve what Parliament has previously decided in terms of co-management, increased licence hunting, easier protection hunting and a more even distribution of the number of animals across the country.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-498	Mr President, I would like to It is a comprehensive report that we are debating. It is about nature conservation and biodiversity. Unfortunately, one area that is often forgotten if we discuss nature conservation and biodiversity is our marine environment, that is our marine environment. We in the Left Party have a proposal in this report for more sea areas to be protected in international waters. Today, international waters are extremely poorly protected. Less than 1% of international waters in the world are protected at all. At the same time, we see a growing interest in increased fishing and mining of minerals, gas, oil etc. in areas outside national territory. As I said, this is not regulated at all. Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that the committee and the government are fully on the line that we in the Left Party have been exercising and which we are raising in reservation 35, namely that we want to protect 30% of international waters. This is an issue that is now being negotiated within the UN Maritime Law, Unclo. Fortunately, the government's answer is that it is pushing the issue of 30% protection, and the whole committee also supports it. I simply do not need to ask for the approval of reservation 35, because it has been fully satisfied. I am, as I said, very happy and grateful for that. But I think we should also give a thought to how we protect the marine environment here in Sweden. About 10 – 15% of our seas have some form of protection – it can be a nature reserve, a Natura 2000 area or a national park like the Kosterhavet – but at the same time large-scale bottom trawling is allowed in large parts of these protected areas. 30 of our 300 marine reserves allow bottom trawling. To the surface you get the bottom trawl in about half of our marine reserves. That bottom trawling is kind of like driving a steamroller out on the bottoms of our seas. It kills everything that grows and is there if it wants to hurt itself. It is extremely destructive to marine life. I don't understand how our government can allow bottom trawling in our marine reserves. I would therefore like to send a clear call to our government to act against this. It is great to protect more areas, but the quality also needs to be protected in the areas. Be sure not to allow bottom trawling in marine reserves! When it is done, we can stop bottom trawling completely, because we need to have much more gentle fishing methods. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, there is an announcement in this report about facilitating the licensing of wolves in areas where the wolf population can be reduced. This is very fluffy in a policy area that is extremely sensitive. I thought that we in this Assembly agreed that predatory management and biodiversity should be based on a scientific basis and that we should take in what the experts tell us about what it looks like in our nature. They say we're going to push down the wolf tribe-- we heard that from the Moderates here earlier-- to a population of 170 wolves. It is the absolute lowest in a range of 170 – 270 wolves, which is already quite arbitrary in itself. Because everyone here knows it's arbitrary, doesn't it? In 2013, the bourgeois parties developed the range of the wolf population together with the Swedish Democrats. As we heard earlier, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency believes that we need a much larger wolf population. If you talk to initiated researchers and international research panels, we get a recommendation that is even higher. Having said that, I would also like to say, Mr President, that there is a slight fixation on figures and population strains when it comes to the management of our five predators in Sweden. It's about so much more than just the number of individuals. How can we have viable predator tribes in our country... bear, wolf, loo, wolverine and golden eagle... that are not threatened? I think that is one of the key issues in this. We will of course ensure that we have populations that are viable and that are allowed to grow. Then you cannot lie down at the bottom of any kind of arbitrary span that moderates, Swedish democrats and center parties with others want to do. At least as important is that we need to strengthen biodiversity and ensure that our animals have a place to live at all. The Moderates spoke here about Artdatabanken earlier, and Artdatabanken points out that the forestry that we have today is probably the greatest threat to our being able to have viable strains of different kinds of animals. Today we have a forestry that is one-sidedly focused on the greenery. It simply removes the environment in which our animals live. We need more sustainable and gentle forestry. We also need to protect more areas. Then we can protect endangered species. As far as the wolf is concerned, we also need genetic reinforcement. We need to facilitate the natural immigration of wolves from, for example, Finland and Russia. We need to do much more to combat the illegal hunt. Last year there was no hunt for protection on wolves, but at the same time we know that we have a poaching in this country of perhaps the same number of wolf individuals as the number of wolf individuals that you shoot off during a year when it is a hunt for protection. The risk of going there for poaching is extremely small in Sweden. We are doing far too little to fight the illegal hunt. I also think that we can do much more to strengthen popular support for our predatory policy. We need to spend more money on, for example, the protection of domestic animals, so that farming can be carried out in areas where there are predators. Of course, humans and predators can live together. We have been able to do that for hundreds of years. We in this congregation should not turn ourselves into megaphones for those who want to shoot off resin when every predator we have in the country. I therefore urge that the proposal for a notice to extend the licence hunt in Sweden be rejected.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-512	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 21, although we naturally support all our reservations. As we have heard before, this report covers a wide range of subjects; speaking time would have to be considerably longer than eight minutes to talk about everything. So there are a few short strokes about some exercise. I will, of course, also talk about the announcement on the hunting of wolves that we may have time to decide here later today or next week. Yesterday we had a debate on chemicals policy. Several of us then pointed to the importance that we can use chemicals for our everyday life to work, including in food production. But we must do so responsibly and with good control. The same applies when we work with GMOs. GMOs present both opportunities and risks. The Christian Democrats believe that opportunities should be taken into account, while the risks should be adequately prevented. The precautionary principle shall apply to the introduction of new GMO crops. Mr President, I would like to Speaking of the broad scope of the debate, I am now moving from GMOs to birds. One species that we have heard of earlier today and that we often hear about on the news are the cormorants and their ravages. In several parts of the Swedish archipelago, other seabirds have been crammed back while the mid-scarves have spread out. The cormorants have proved to be very viable on our Swedish coasts. The Christian Democrats believe that the number of mid-scarves needs to be decimated considerably and limited mainly by hunting. Unfortunately, the EU Birds Directive puts obstacles to this. The Christian Democrats therefore propose that the Birds Directive be upgraded to include the cormorants on the list of huntable species. It will then be possible for Sweden to decide on a general hunt for cormorants. At present, it is only possible to decide on a protection hunt. Hunting for cormorants must not be conducted within 300 metres of a known place of residence. We believe that this restriction should also be abolished. The cormorants are penetrating other species. We're going from diversity to monolithic. In addition – if the expression is allowed, Mr President – it dumps islands and islets so that vegetation dies because of all ammonia in its faeces. Worse still, our fishermen are seeing their fish catches decline, in some places radically, because of this bird, which is in no way endangered. Our Swedish fishermen have it tough enough, without problems with seals and cormorants. Mr President, I would like to We're moving a little further into shore. We could have a long debate on beach protection and how it puts a dead hand on parts of the country, strikingly often in rural areas. Seafront accommodation could be a way to get more people to settle there and thus provide a basis for schools and shops. It must be considerably easier to build homes near the beach in the sparsely populated parts of the country. The regulatory framework must be fundamentally reformed. Mr President, I would like to Wetlands are good, from several points of view, for example for biodiversity. We would need more wetlands in Sweden. But again, we have a regulatory framework that prevents landowners from building them. When you have built wetland on your own land, because, as a thank you for the help, the beach shelter kicks in. In this way you must not put up any buildings near the wetland. The Christian Democrats are therefore proposing to introduce a specific provision into the beach protection rules, which means that new wetland will not be able to create a beach protection. Mr President, I would like to We are moving even further into land and into a subject that has been discussed earlier in the debate. Under the Berne Convention, countries with cross-border predator populations are to cooperate on their management, as we heard Peter Helander speak in a previous speech. Sweden and Norway have a cross-border wolf population. It would therefore be natural for both countries to cooperate on the management of this population. The wolf tribe in Scandinavia has passed the biological limit of long-term survival by a good margin. Unfortunately, the policy does not follow developments in the management of the wolf. A fundamental problem is that the wolf tribe is treated as a national matter rather than as a common Scandinavian tribe. Research projects such as Skandulv and the Swedish-Norwegian project Grensevilt have pointed out that there is a great need to increase cooperation around administration. For a long time Norway has also called for cooperation with Sweden, but Sweden has so far given Norway the cold hand. Of course, the Riksgränsen is only an open area for the wolf. But the countries allow the national borders to be a strict administrative limit. In reality, the distinction between Swedish and Norwegian wolves continues, despite the fact that animals are known to lack nationality. Instead, if the wolf strain were to be treated as a common Scandinavian wolf strain, the total number of wolves could be lower than today. Thus, the level of conflict could be mitigated. We must have a common Scandinavian management objective, because our tribe is common. We must stop with the mathematical quirks and share in the statistics wolves living in so-called border territory. The wolf will not be half even if it crosses a rich border. Mr President, I would like to I'm glad we're going to get an announcement on the hunt for wolf. I am pleased that a majority in the Swedish parliament actually wants to listen to those who live and work within the wolf and thus in different ways are affected by the wolf's presence. It is now almost 40 years since the wolves appeared in northern Värmland. If they were remnants from the former wolf tribe or if they were newly immigrated individuals, there are different theories about. But the state has always been clear that it has not planted wolf in Sweden. The base of the Scandinavian wolf tribe is thus based on three to four animals. This alone shows that the wolf has enormous potential; the tribe has increased by many thousands of percent from such a small base. The authorities would then teach us to live with the wolves, who were only a few. Then we would accept a number of couples. Then we would have 10 to 15 wolves, then we would have 30 and eventually we would have 100. Then we'd have 180, then we'd have 270 and then we'd have 300. Now it's over 300, and still nothing happens. Now you can see how other areas are affected in exactly the same way that we have long been affected at home in Värmland, and nothing happens. Wolves that apparently aim for hunting dogs are not removed with a protective hunt. Despite recurring wolf attacks on sheep and other domestic animals, very little happens. If wolves start running through villages and communities, not much happens either, unless it is close to Stockholm of course. For 40 years the authorities have been moving the goal posts time after time. Those who have needed help in removing problem wolves through protection hunting have often been rejected, and when they have been heard, various organisations have appealed whereupon it has stopped and the result has been the same. Among those really affected by wolf, disappointment and frustration have risen. In the end, it has turned into pure desperation. Somewhere along that journey is the risk that people who normally follow the law and just tie their fists in their pants pocket when they don't like anything go too far and cross the line. They realize that they will not receive any help from the authorities but will rather remain opposed. All of a sudden they go from words to deeds, and some of the law-abiding citizens have changed sides and become criminals, only because of the unwillingness of the authorities to help and create consensus. I understand that, but I'm not defending it in any way. I wonder if this is how the authorities actually wanted it to be. Mr President, I would like to Finally, we are now showing in this House that we are also taking rural citizens seriously. We listen to them and take in their experiences. It is now up to the government to deliver and not let this announcement become an announcement that you put in a box and that you pretend to be in preparation. Will the government show that it also cares about those living in rural areas, that it also cares about those living in vargrevir? Or is it once again the wolf that has a higher value than the man who lives there?
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-534	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the illegal hunt may be the greatest threat to a viable wolf tribe. I am amazed when I hear Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson indirectly legitimizing illegal hunting. At least that's how I got it. He said, "And suddenly, people cross the line and hunt wolves." Should we look at other crimes in the same way? Some people cross the line and rob a bank. Some people cross the border and drive 250 kilometers an hour on a highway because they have a car that goes so fast. That is not how we can look at the widespread crime. I would like to hear what the Christian Democrats think. Do the Christian Democrats think that we should get tough on poaching? Are we going to act to get the poaching off forest and land altogether? I did not hear this from Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-537	Mr President, I would like to Then Jens Holm probably listened a little inattentively. I made it clear that I am in no way defending poaching. I said that in my speech, which Jens Holm should have heard if he had paid attention. Unfortunately, illegal hunting occurs, and I also mentioned why it occurs. There are now quite a few research reports that clearly indicate that because there is no legal hunt, some people unfortunately take the law into their own hands because they are not heard.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-540	Mr President, I would like to I interpreted Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson's speech as an indirect legitimisation of poaching. I have still not received any clear information from the Christian Democrats about what they want to do to combat poaching, more than allow other hunting. We will remember that since 2013, when we got it completely unscientific span for viable populations of wolf, we in Sweden have had license hunting on wolf. Has poaching decreased during this time? No, it has not. Rather, it has increased. There's a wolfgate out there. It is a small minority, I would say. The vast majority of Swedes are proud that we are a large country, have a fantastic nature and have predators living in this nature and can live together and side by side with people living in our forests and areas. Of course, we can do much to combat the illegal hunt. We could have more nature guardians out in the woods. We could have hunting overseers. We can allocate more money to the judiciary and the courts to make this work a priority. We can allocate more money to the police so that it focuses more proactively to combat the illegal hunt. I am absolutely convinced that it can be eliminated. It's not about a big popular movement that's out shooting wolves illegally. From the Christian Democrats, I hear nothing. I can only hear from the Christian Democrats that it is no wonder that people go out and shoot wolves, because it is so much regulated today. But we have protection hunting in Sweden and have had it for many years.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-544	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we have protective hunting in Sweden. Unfortunately, it is used far too rarely. If we had been better at using the instrument of protection hunting, the situation would be much more different. But there too we see the reluctance of the authorities. I have pointed out several times that I certainly do not support illegal hunting, but see it as an abomination because it destroys, not least, the legal hunt. This has been clear to me several times, but Jens Holm does not want to hear it but tries to spread something else. I can think a little about who Jens Holm is trying to legitimise when, for example, he is out demonstrating in animal rights and predator marches in Stockholm. There are a lot of organizations that are doing very strange things, not least out there with our farmers. There are organizations that do everything they can to destroy hunting and destroy for farmers. For example, we saw recently when Adam Alsing died that one of these organizations went out celebrating that a hunter had died in covid-19. Organizations like these demonstrate Jens Holm with. This is much more frightening, Mr President. ( TALMANN: Since this was a clear personal attack, I admit a brief answer to that. )
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-548	Mr President, I would like to That's one of the worst things I've heard in a long time. I have never ever demonstrated and will never demonstrate with extremists who think it's good when people die, whether it's covid-19 or anything else.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-549	Madam President, I would like We agree with all our reservations in the report, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 28 on the hunting of wolves. Madam President, I would like The report deals with biodiversity and nature conservation, but I will concentrate my speech on the issues of predator management and the importance of predators to ecosystems. The current focus on predatory policy was approved by Parliament in 2013. It was the then alliance government that put forward the bill. The overall and long-term goal of predator policy is for wolves, bears, wolverines, lynx and royal eagles, the so-called large predators, in Sweden to achieve and maintain a favourable conservation status under the Species and Habitats Directive, while keeping domestic animal husbandry not significantly impeded and socio-economic considerations are taken into account. In the bill it was made clear that despite the range of 170 to 270 individuals it was the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that would make an assessment of favourable conservation status. Within the framework of the decided predator policy, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has developed national management plans for the large predators. The management plan describes the objectives of the species and the measures needed to achieve them. Every six years, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reports to the Commission the status of the different species and habitats under Article 17 of the EU Species and Habitats Directive. The latest reporting was carried out on 29 April 2019. The reporting indicated that the reference value for wolf is 300 individuals. It is the lowest number of wolves that should be present in Sweden to achieve a favourable conservation status. According to the information provided by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the assessment of what is favourable conservation status should be based on the best available research. For example, decisions on hunting have been based on at least 300 wolves in predator management since the presentation of the updated wolf vulnerability analysis. This level is also supported by a 2016 Supreme Administrative Court judgment stating that there was no reason to question the scientific evidence on which the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has based its assessment. Madam President, I would like When it comes to hunting for protection on wolves, it is not estimated that the wolf has favourable conservation status. Then the protection hunt is the alternative so that you can ensure that you live up to the intention of Parliament's decisions and the EU directive. If there is a high probability that serious damage will occur, protection hunting may be decided even if no damage has yet occurred. However, protection hunting may be decided only if there is no other appropriate solution and unless it hampers the maintenance of a favourable conservation status of the species' stocks in its natural range. Protection hunting is therefore a de facto instrument, and decisions on protection hunting can be taken every year if necessary. The hunting period for the specific occasion is set out in the current protection hunting decision. Madam President, I would like It is also a matter of quickly deciding matters that are part of the system we have. Since 2016, there has been a provision in the Hunting Regulation for cases concerning hunting of, among other things, the large predators to be dealt with promptly. In the same year, the court order was also amended so that such decisions are now appealed to the administrative court and not to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. In the case of licence hunting, which is the subject of the announcement and where the Liberals have reserved themselves, it is a matter of deciding on the hunting of wolves under the hunting regulation being taken by October of each year at the latest. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency decided in June 2019 not to delegate the possibility of making a decision on the hunting of wolves to the county administrative boards. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency considered that during the coming hunting season the space for hunting for wolves was non-existent with the current population size and population trend. It was also taken into account that there may be protective hunting. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency also considered that a licence hunting withdrawal during the upcoming hunting season could not be considered to be in line with the management's objective of a favourable conservation status for the species' stocks in its natural range, i.e. what was also pointed out in the bill. A renewed assessment of the delegation of licence hunting for 2021 will be made in 2020 based on the results of this year's wolf inventory. Madam President, I would like When it comes to preventing and compensating damage and the work against predator attacks, the National Management Plan of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency states that one of the four objectives of wolf management is to reduce the extent of the damage caused by the presence of predators. Injuries shall be prevented in the first place and, in the second place, replaced. I note in the text of the committee majority that reference is made to taking democratic decisions into account. The 2013 bill is a democratic decision. I also note that the term endangered is now being used instead of discussing the issue of beneficial conservation status. Then the question arises: How many wolves should there be? When is the wolf endangered or not? Madam President, I would like In the reservation left by the Liberals in connection with the announcement proposal, we believe that Sweden should have viable strains of all five predators: bear, wolverine, loo, wolf and golden eagle. Regionalised carnivores management will continue, and dialogue with the local population in the affected areas is an important part. We think dialogue is important. Sweden shall have viable and genetically healthy strains. Predatory strains shall be protected while it must not interfere with domestic animal husbandry. In the 2013 bill A sustainable predatory policy, adopted by the Riksdag and which was a democratic decision, set the goal for Sweden to achieve and maintain a favourable conservation status for the predators, while at the same time ensuring that domestic animal husbandry is not significantly impeded and that socio-economic considerations are taken into account. In the bill there was a range of between 170 and 270 individuals. However, we in the Liberals believe that it nevertheless aimed to focus on favourable conservation status. How big the tribe needs to be to be strong enough is something that the experts and the responsible authority need to make an assessment of. These figures must be based on scientific assessments of the size and development of the population. Decisions on possible licence hunting can then be made based on the scientific assessment of whether the strain has favourable conservation status. We also noted the two research reports 2015 that have been a basis for the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's assessments. The Riksdag needs to leave that assessment to the expertise, in this case the responsible authority that the proposal points out, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. This was also the meaning of the Parliament's decision in 2013. Liberals consider that there is no justification for amending the agreed policy on the favourable conservation status of wolves. Madam President, I would like In connection with the wolf issue, hunting dogs that are injured when we are in the forest and land are also often discussed. It is extremely regrettable that this is happening. The hunting dog means a lot to the families and hunters. It's about many hours of training and big investments. Dogs are also needed to search for damaged game. Moreover, the dog is often considered to be man's best friend. According to the insurance company Agria 211 hunting dogs were killed or injured by wild boars and 9 dogs by wolf in 2019. Finally, Madam President, we, like plants and animals, depend on nature and biodiversity for our survival. We also have a responsibility to manage the environment and nature so that we leave a world in ecological balance to future generations. Large predators also have an important role to play in ecosystems.
i-3e65e383fc9a1d24-572	Madam President, I would like We are all painfully aware of the greatest health crisis of our time, the Corona crisis. It is a crisis driven by a virus that, in turn, affected man because of how we handle life on earth. When we cut out parts of life's fabric, our life insurance for the future is reduced. That's what we're doing now, at a furious rate. The extinction of species is a parallel crisis to the Corona crisis and the climate crisis. More than 1 million species are threatened by extinction in the world, and this is also happening in Sweden. Every five years, the so-called Red List, which lists different species threatened by our progress, is released. It is an alarm signal for us to do something radically different and clearly shows that we cannot continue as before. It is not a matter of preserving some cute animals; it is a matter of preserving or not preserving life. When the species crisis is not taken seriously, our lives are not taken seriously. Anyone who chooses to ignore the loss of our fellow species prioritises something else over life itself. Often it is about money or power. Madam President, I would like The Red List now contains 4,746 species, an increase of 11 percent since the last list. These are species in Sweden. But it's not just numbers; it's existence we're talking about. Now we are eradicating species that have existed for hundreds of millions of years. It's about clearing our forest ecosystems. This is about bottom trawling of our marine systems. It is about the regrowing of pastures. Madam President, I would like Moss, beetles, birds and butterflies are groups that are getting worse and worse in Sweden. Now the red list is also species that we have taken for granted, such as forest hare, hedgehog, crow and birch thrush, and that is why they are decreasing at very high speed. This is not just happening on its own; it is a consequence of how we have built up our systems, basically a question of what we value. I would like to remind you that we have signed the Convention on Biological Diversity. Therefore, we have a responsibility for all species within Sweden's borders. Although a species is under immediate threat in Sweden, no legal protection is provided automatically. It is legal, despite the Red List and all the knowledge in place with all the recommendations, to both fish, shoot, kill, sell and buy endangered species in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The lynx is Sweden's most popular animal, but also redlisted as vulnerable. Yet 108 lynx were allowed to be shot this year, for no real reason. The eel is acutely endangered internationally, yet it is legal to eat it as a delicacy and to allow hydropower turbines to chop it into pieces. Madam President, I would like Of Sweden's 245 nesting bird species, one in three has fallen so sharply that they are now on the red list. For the sake of nesting birds in the forest, we as individuals must not walk with the dog loose in the woods. However, we will have to harvest these forests with nesting birds and young birds at the tops of the trees that are sown to the ground. Madam President, I would like The wolf has gone from being vulnerable to being strongly threatened in Sweden. At the same time, we have promised that we will have a favourable conservation status of the wolf, where the wolf will have a viable population over time. The committee then decides to support a motion by the Christian Democrats to increase the hunting of wolves. This is justified by taking into account democratic decisions on the predatory strain, the elk population and human safety and quality of life. Madam President, I would like We already have a predatory policy today with both protection hunting and licence hunting. The motionaries believe, however, that the government should decide what is a scientific level, based on a position in the Riksdag that some members claim is based on a scientific report, and tell the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency what to decide. As the law is designed today, it is the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that makes the scientific assessment, not the Riksdag. This is desperate cherry-picking of research. Madam President, I would like This is a scandalous decision. It is not about democracy; it is about racism. It's about wolfat. It is the quality of life and the happiness of a small group of wolves that decisions e t are designed to reinforce. Madam President, I would like In the Red List, it is clear about the wolf that the illegal hunt is an important factor in its being there. We in this House should therefore put our political energy into tackling the illegal hunt, which is driving the wolf to be this threatened, rather than trying to force the government to use research suitable for the purpose of eradicating the wolf. Madam President, I would like The existence of a species must not be determined by a hobby or an economic special interest. The lifetime of a species must not end prematurely because of poor politics. In the Green Party, our policy is based on solidarity with all people, animals and nature. We want to see predator strains that are long-term viable, in line with EU requirements. Therefore, we cannot accept the licensing of wolves, lynx and wolverine, either present or extended. That is why, Madam President, I would like to endorse Amendment No 27.
