i-596f7bb3097e6c15-2	Madam President, I would like Under normal circumstances, the Member of Parliament, Carina Ståhl Herrstedt, who is responsible for these matters, would have been here at the moment, but with a reduced Parliament, I have had the honour to prefer this. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 2. It is incredibly gratifying to finally bring about a change in the way probe feeding and breathing help. It has long been an urgent issue for us Swedish democrats. Today's debate and proposals are definitely a step in the right direction. Although we would have liked to have seen some of the proposal drawn up in a different way, we are in favour of the whole of the proposal. We believe that personal assistance and assistance compensation should be provided in connection with breathing or meals in the form of probe feeding and care of breathing aids or cleaning of probe sprayers. Such measures shall not be subject to normal parental responsibility. The Swedish Democrats have long highlighted the problem of allowing parental responsibility to go too far. Overly heavy responsibilities often result in parents not being able to cope with everything and being forced to take sick leave. The same shall apply in childcare and school. In the past, it has been considered that the responsibility of child care and school for self-care has been in line with the supervisory responsibility of the guardians for their children. It is as difficult for day-to-day staff as it is in childcare and school to assume responsibility for these relatively advanced health care measures. The derogation from the requirement for specific reasons should also apply here. Therefore, we had hoped that the government would propose the same solution as in childcare and school. Unfortunately, that did not happen, and it is only to be regretted. Madam President, I would like However, the government does not want to change the fact that it does not have the right to assistance with breathing and meals in the form of gavage when the individual is in or participating in activities for which another principal is responsible. Unfortunately, the Government also considers that there should be no exemption from the requirement for special grounds for assistance compensation when the individual is cared for in hospital for a short period of time or takes part in daily activities. If assistance allowance is not granted during hospitalisation, it can have devastating consequences for the individual. Hospital staff all too often have a high workload and may find it difficult to help with, for example, meals, toilet visits, transfers or other time-consuming needs that may exist. There may also be devastating consequences for the employer, who may be forced to resign the assistants when no hourly allowance is paid, and the individual risks being left without staff after a hospital period. We therefore need well-structured procedures and collaboration here. During hospitalisation for children with assistance allowance, Försäkringskassan refers to parental responsibility. Therefore, no compensation is granted. Parents who are employed as assistants to their children are double-punished when they are also not allowed to take out vabs, i.e. for the care of children, while the children are hospitalized. Unfortunately, the LSS investigation did not address the issue, although it was brought to their attention. Madam President, I would like In January this year, the Government decided on the Committee Directive Strengthening the right to personal assistance for self-care support, supervision and for children. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of the investigation and that a special investigator should review certain questions within personal assistance according to LSS. Personal assistance is an important part of contributing to the individual's independence, which in turn is a national objective of disability policy. We believe, however, that the investigation should be given an additional directive aimed at ensuring that all basic needs are based on assistance in their entirety. For us, it is important to protect the intentions of the LSS and that assistance should be given based on needs, large and small, in accordance with the pre-works of the LSS when the Rights Act was once introduced. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say that long-term and sustainable solutions are a must for people in need of assistance, for everyone close to them and for assistants. Long-term and sustainable economic solutions must also be provided for the survival of assistance companies.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-13	Madam President, I would like Then it was time again to come together in this House to debate the LSS and personal assistance – for which time in order I do not know, but I know that the opportunities have been many but that progress has been to say the least modest. I do not know how it feels to you, but for my part I have to say that it feels in my stomach when I note that today we are going to debate whether eating and breathing should be seen as fundamental needs. My stomach hurts because it says everything about what disability policy has been like in recent years. The debate we have today can nevertheless be seen as positive in the sense that there is now a proposal that the need for help to breathe and eat should give the right to assistance, but perhaps above all because we now see that the government can change the law if they want – something that has previously been extremely doubtful. Let us take it from the beginning to explain what can be rather tricky for most people to understand, perhaps not for those of us who are sitting in this Chamber today, but for everyone else who is not affected or affected, those who may not have understood that this is also about them. In 1994 we in Sweden began to regard people with norm-breaking functionality as actual people who have the ability to take care of themselves and make their own decisions and therefore have the right to a self-determined life. Instead of seeing people as a weak group of sick people who were most a burden, they would now be guaranteed to live a life like others, as active citizens of a democracy, through personal assistance. It was a fantastic agreement between all the citizens that neither of us should lose the right to ourselves or society because our body violates a norm. About ten years after the introduction of the LSS reform, something started to happen. Slowly but surely the legislation began to be attacked. Because it's too expensive. Suddenly, everything that has to do with personal assistance and disability is equated with cheating and crime – an excellent and extremely effective method to damage confidence in a reform so that it can be slowly but surely dismantled. The attack came, as always, stealthily. But about five years ago it was developed into a regular war. In principle, no one is currently granted assistance. The number of hours for those eligible for assistance has decreased dramatically. The process that causes a fairly likely rejection is, to say the least, offensive – a real horror experience for those affected. As I have probably pointed out a hundred times before, this has had such brutal consequences for individuals that it is hardly understandable. People are locked in their homes and cannot work, go to school, take care of their family, spend time with friends or engage in leisure activities. People have completely lost the right to access their lives as we once promised. Now I hear people even taking their lives. It is not possible for people who once had certain rights to continue their lives when these rights are lost overnight. This is nothing but a scandal. Madam President, I would like The underlying motive has undoubtedly been costs, but it is above all the interpretation of judgments that has been the main cause of this failure. From 2009 people's needs would no longer be assessed as a whole, but if the need was close to integrity or not, i.e. from looking at the whole human need to a time clock for how long it takes to urinate, shower or take food to the mouth. Now it's only time when hand meets skin that counts. A person's life is reduced to the struggle for time and the struggle for the price tag. This is precisely where today's debate and proposals will be interesting. For years the government has argued that it is not the fault of politics that it looks like it does but that it is the interpretation of the legislation, and the legislation cannot only be changed. But apparently you can, and here we have it: Breathing and probing should now be counted as basic needs. Very easy. What one might wonder is why the government and the rest of the gang didn't take the opportunity to adjust the law for all the basic needs now that they were on the go. It's about money, of course. It's Finance that's stopping. The Ministry of Finance has put a price tag on the right to live their lives like others regardless of functionality. The amazing thing, however, is that Magdalena Andersson has now clearly declared that the finances are not a problem. The barns aren't empty. Yes, but then, it is only to restore the legislation to what was once the idea of it. Let me be very clear. I do not want in any way to cast a shadow over the very difficult situation in which the government is acting vigorously against the Corona crisis. It's great, and I'm well aware that it's necessary. However, huge sums of money are being pumped out. So it cannot be the lack of resources that has been the problem without the will to give priority to assistance. Madam President, I would like It is totally unacceptable that we live in a country where human rights are judged by the functionality of the body and that my right to live my life as I wish, with the same rights and obligations as others, is governed by the finances. It's unworthy. Acting to seriously save LSS may never have been as important as in the suites of Corona. In light of its consequences, we have both the opportunity and the obligation to implement the changes needed to strengthen Sweden and retain our dignity. The proposal before us is a step in the right direction, but that is not enough. Even if we support the proposal, we, together with the KD, are calling for the government to go further. We in the Left Party are firmly committed to our now ten-year-old demand that all basic needs be assessed in their entirety and that the LSS should become a rights law again. I therefore lift reservation 1.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-30	Madam President, I would like Now the S-MP government can be satisfied. They have reached their goal in the regulation letter to Försäkringskassan 2016. For the first time since the introduction of LSS 26 years ago, the number of assistance hours per recipient has stopped increasing. According to Försäkringskassan's report, one of the reasons for the broken trend in the number of hours is that fewer people have applied for more hours in recent years. Yes, the number of applications has actually halved since 2015. The Authority believes that this may indicate that there has been some saturation of the assistance compensation, i.e. that the beneficiaries have often already been granted as many hours as they need. Of course, Madam President, you have not heard the fear of all those with extensive disabilities who feel that they have an increased need for assistance. It is all those who do not dare to apply for more hours for fear of instead losing hours – fear of losing so many hours at worst that they end up under 20 hours of basic needs per week, that is, the lower limit of state assistance compensation. Their fear is justified. The Social Insurance Agency's report notes that after the two-year review was removed, it has led to a loss of compensation for some aid beneficiaries, although the right to assistance compensation would in all likelihood not have existed if they applied today. Madam President, I would like The stricter case law referred to by the Authority has led to a reduction in the number of aid beneficiaries of 2000 persons since 2015. In addition to these 2 000 people, there are countless people who have been cut in the number of hours, although they have not completely lost their right to assistance. Behind every number is a human being. It may be a child who has been born with a disability or a woman who, in the midst of her life, suffered a stroke and suffered permanent harm. It is about people who do not now get the assistance they need to live a life like others. It is people who are forced into a poor life without self-determination over their own everyday lives. The erosion of the right to assistance is inhuman and unworthy of a welfare country like Sweden. Madam President, I would like As incredible as it sounds, the cuts in assistance have gone so far that breathing and probe feeding are not counted as basic needs. But after tomorrow's vote, it will be restored. We Christian Democrats are obviously behind this vital change in law. It's something we've been fighting for a long time. But while I am delighted with all the children, adults and families that will now be helped, I am very critical that the process has been far too slow and crooked. The S-MP government and cooperation parties The Center Party and the Liberals have repeatedly had to back down and withdraw legislative proposals that risked aggravating the situation of people with assistance needs in terms of basic needs other than breathing and feeding. Many people have gone bad while the January parties have tried out various legal solutions. But now what should be a matter of course is finally a legal right. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to all disability organisations and individuals who have created public opinion and written sharp referrals. You've made a big difference, so thank you! Today we have won a victory. But it takes so much more to celebrate. We Christian Democrats are fighting for all basic needs to be fully supported, and I would therefore, Madam President, like to call for our reservation, No 1. To give a better understanding of how bad the situation is, I have been allowed to read a few quotes from some of Försäkringskassan's assessments. The first decision concerns a guy we can call Oskar. 中 Oskar needs to wash his hands after each toilet visit and on additional occasions every day. In the ADL assessment it says that Oskar forgets to wash his hands and that he needs to be told and guided in every step of the way to get his hands clean. The Social Insurance Agency distinguishes between basic needs and other personal needs. Guiding to perform a task does not count as a basic need as it is not close to integrity. The Social Insurance Agency here estimates no time for handwashing as a basic need. ..................................................... The next decision concerns a young woman we can call Lisa. You ask for help with toilet visits, 6.5 minutes per time when you have peed. You walk 17–20 times in the bathroom per day when you have compulsive rituals and behaviors to do. The Social Insurance Agency considers that it may be reasonable to consider a total of 12 visits per day when it comes to peeing, and that a visit takes about 3 minutes, i.e. a total of 36 minutes per day. In the time of all the toilet visits include helping you to take off and on clothes, dry clean and help wash hands, change tie if necessary and rinse off if needed. Putting on clothes such as panties can be considered a basic need but help to correct clothes such as trousers, sweater and more is not considered a basic need as it is not of a private nature or close to privacy. To lubricate the hands that take place mostly during winter time, is not considered to be keeping clean and time for it is not considered as a basic need and no time is taken into account for it. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I hope that the parties that have announced that they do not support the Christian Democrats' reservation of investigating the conditions for all basic needs to be assistance-based in their entirety feel completely comfortable with the authorities questioning people's needs and cutting up their lives for minutes and seconds in this way. Those who do not feel comfortable have the chance to change their mind at tomorrow's vote. It would make a big difference in a lot of people's lives.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-47	Madam President, I would like Just over eight months ago, the Riksdag adopted a legislative amendment clarifying the right to personal assistance for breathing help. It briefly meant that breathing should be included in basic needs and give the right to personal assistance. Now we are securing the basic needs further according to the agreement that exists between the government, the C Enter Party and the L Iberals. The proposed legislative changes include helping with the basic breathing and feeding needs to give the right to personal assistance, regardless of the nature of the assistance. After all, needs are fundamental to survival, and the children who need help with their needs are a vulnerable group, where parents have been forced to take an unreasonable responsibility. It is important that parental responsibility is reasonable in relation to the situation. Furthermore, the requirement for special reasons is removed when the disabled person is in childcare or school. The Government considers that there should be no exemption from the requirement for special reasons for assistance compensation for time when the individual is cared for in a hospital for a short period of time or takes part in daily activities. The legislative amendment is proposed to enter into force as early as next month. Madam President, I would like Together with the Center Party and the Liberals, the R.E.R. has an agreement on the LSS. E n of the paragraphs is the promise to ensure that personal assistance and assistance compensation are of high quality and legal certainty. We also want to ensure that everyone who is entitled to support receives it. The right to self-care assistance, including breathing and probe feeding, shall be restored. The right to assistance for supervisory needs shall be strengthened. The definition of normal parental responsibility needs to be narrowed. These are clear promises that are binding. I think they show that we, the uncial democrats, are committed to the unique law of rights that LSS is and which is so important to the individual's self-determination and influence over his or her own life situation. Now we can tick off this part, but I am very well aware that it is not clear with that. Much more will have to be done. The background to the deterioration of the LSS is the well-known number of precedents for the judgments that have significantly changed the right to support fundamental needs. This issue has been debated many times in this House. As far as we are concerned today, the problems that have arisen have largely been the result of existing case law. We have all taken note of evidence of perceived deterioration. We have read all the heartbreaking articles where mainly young people have not received the obvious help that they have the right to expect from society. We've been reading about a family that's been working around the clock caring for children while they've been working. I can understand the pressure on the life situation that many families find and have found themselves in, as early as the anxiety and insecurity gnawed when the natural support from society was not really there. Now, many steam people will be able to get the right to self-evident contributions from society in the very parts that we are dealing with today. Families and relatives will have the relief needed to reconcile work and family life. Madam President, I would like Already during the last parliamentary term, the S ‐ led government acted with several measures to restore LSS according to needs. Initially, a major investigation was launched called Ö versyn of operations under LSS and assistance compensation one. It was a solid investigation. I regret that it has not yet been referred. Regardless of what we think of the proposals, there have been elements that have been able to form the basis for quickly coming up with certain things to strengthen the law on support and service. Another important report was to review the consequences of the change in case law. The Swedish Parliament also adopted a new law where, among other things, two-year trials are stopped until new legislation is in place. We also ensured that personal assistance can be granted between operations. With today's report, we are doing what we have promised: H ela momente t in terms of breathing and gavage will be counted in the future. In addition, we remove parental responsibility in relation to these needs in order to ensure that children with needs are entitled to assistance. Restoring the right to assistance for persons in need of help with breathing and probe feeding is an important step in creating a safer LSS legislation. In the course of our work, we have come to the conclusion that this too would be insufficient to help the very children concerned, because so-called parental responsibility also has a major impact. It is clear to me that when you have to feed your child via a probe or help your child breathe, it is not a normal parental responsibility. That is why we have also included in the bill that what has previously been counted under parental responsibility here should also give the right to assistance. Madam President, I would like We are now moving on to strengthen support for personal assistance in self-care and supervision. In January, the Government decided on investigation directives aimed at taking it. We, the Ocial Democrats, want to increase the continuity and predictability of personal assistance and assistance compensation, which must be characterised by high quality and legal certainty. Personal assistance is one of the individual support and solutions that contributes to individual autonomy in accordance with the national objective of disability policy. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the reservations to be rejected.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-60	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating something as obvious as breathing and gavage being basic needs. It feels very strange and on the verge of shameful. I hear from the honourable Member that she has a commitment. I know that the honourable Member has that and an understanding of how difficult the situation is. We heard this in the honourable Member's speech here earlier. Then I think it feels a little strange not to take advantage of the possibility when it exists. The Christian Democrats have added a motion for a supplementary directive to the investigation that is ongoing to investigate that all basic needs should be assistance-based in their entirety. Does the honourable Member not think that it is reasonable that it is essential to correct all the clothes that we heard in my speech here before, and to put on the outer jacket when it is 20 degrees cold outside? Is it not reasonable that all the time it takes to go to the toilet, not just the time it takes to dry the butt, counts as a basic need?
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-63	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Steensland, for understanding the tone of my speech as that I really want more on this issue with regard to the LSS! I appreciate the great commitment of the Christian Democrats and other parties to this issue. We are often quite consistent in the Committee on Social Affairs with regard to what we need to do and to seeing the problems that exist in the areas we are dealing with. I think the LSS issue is difficult legally. It's complicated matter for me as a layman to understand. I may not have looked as deep into the toolbox as Pia Steensland, who might handle this issue more than I do. You know that our expert in this field is not present today. However, I find this particular matter of timing an embarrassing circumstance, not only in the case of LSS, but perhaps also in the case of other interventions where people are entitled to care and support, such as home care. Of course, it is offensive in many ways when people are being minuted. On the other hand, I am not so sure that it can be concluded that we can legislate this off very easily. I think that things that would have been very easy to do would probably have already been done. Regardless of government or party, I believe that we all want this legislation well and that we want it to be as good as possible for those who need it. But I don't think it's that simple.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-68	Madam President, I would like It may not be easy. However, it is not the honourable Member and I who are going to prescribe the legal text, but an investigator will do so. It will not be easier to do so because we are letting time pass, Madam President, but we need to start a process in order for it to be a change. Here we Christian Democrats had a concrete proposal for a supplementary directive to be given to the ongoing investigation in order for the whole to actually be reviewed. That it would be so much more difficult to look at the whole need for other basic needs than just breathing and gavage, I find it difficult to see. I sometimes feel that there is an idea that this is so difficult that you can't touch it. It's not okay. This is about people who are going extremely badly, people who do not get the support they need to cope with their everyday lives. They're kids, and they're adults. And it's adults who are under house arrest because they don't come out and don't get involved in society. This is about basic needs – personal hygiene, eating, undressing, communicating – where in-depth knowledge of the person is needed to help. It cannot be that we politicians think that a question is too difficult to deal with it. My question therefore remains: will the honourable Member act to further investigate this issue?
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-72	Madam President, I would like I thank Pia Steensland for the question. If I will act in favour of this particular investigation, I cannot respond today. Nevertheless, I think that we Social Democrats have made a clear position. We want to ensure that everyone who is entitled to care and support under LSS will receive it. It is difficult to know exactly how it will be designed in order for it to become a reality. I don't feel safe about just setting up an investigation. Let's see what's happened to the investigation we've got in place. It's in the trash. If we were to set up an investigation into this which also ends up in the trash, then we have also done nothing good for reality and for the people who need it. I think we agree that we want to improve the LSS, and I think we will have to return many times to what are the best steps to take on the way forward. However, I do not feel that I can say today that the very investigation proposed by the Christian Democrats here would solve all the problems. Actually, I don't believe that.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-75	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Kristina Nilsson for the very humble address she has on this issue. I think we need it, and I think there's a point in us slowly but surely still starting to work our way to something where we can really achieve change. What worries me a little is when Kristina Nilsson here says that we have a consensus on the matter. But I think we need to be clear that there are some areas where we do not have a consensus. For us in the Left Party and for other parties here, it is a running point, and it is also very clear to the disability movement. If we do not get practice out of the 2009 judgment, we will not come out in a sensible way on this issue. Kristina Nilsson referred to the investigation that was going on for a very long time and that was put in the trash basket, and that was precisely for this reason. The government is working on the issue but does not take hold of what is the main problem and the part that we need to overcome in order for people to have the right to live a life like others. I shall ask about the same question as I put in my speech. Kristina Nilsson also refers to this being complicated and difficult, and it is clear that it is complicated and difficult. But it went with breathing and probe feeding. For me, it is a bit of a mystery that one then does not take hold of this and make the great adjustment required. Then we'll get this thing out of the way. There are a lot of other things we need to adjust. However, this is the basis for restoring this absolutely amazing piece of legislation. My question is: how is it that you do not take this step and do the part that will be the salvation of assistance?
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-81	Madam President, I would like I understand that Maj Karlsson wishes a lot of things. What we have chosen to do now is what we have an agreement with the Center Party and the Liberals on. It has, of course, been given the highest priority. Then more things will have to be done in the future. Practice from the verdicts is a big problem, and I've seen that for a long time. Then, as politicians, we cannot go in and change practices, but we must change the law. I'm also afraid things can go too fast and get wrong. But, of course, they must not be pulled on a long bench or put into place at any time. But I feel confident that my Social Democratic Government shares my view on this issue, namely that we want to ensure that the LSS works according to the intentions that existed when the law came into existence. That everything then doesn't get done at such a fast pace as both Maj Karlsson and I sometimes wish I don't really have much to say about.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-85	Madam President, I would like I have to say to Kristina Nilsson that we have been making this demand for ten years. It's anything but fast. Thousands of people have been affected. I don't want many things. I wish one thing in principle, and that is to adjust the law so that we return to what was the basic intention with it. I really suffer with all my heart when I see how people are affected in a country like Sweden. I think this is scandalous, and I am actually ashamed. People tell me they can't live anymore. This is too merciless. And I'm actually terrified of myself. Gud forbid that I end up in this situation where someone should sit with timepieces and measure the time that hand moves towards skin instead of looking to my whole need and my right to live just like everyone else. It's complicated how to do it. But wanting to do so must be the ambition of politics. We have been talking about this for ten years. It's not a short time, it's a very long time. If we had used this time to try to get where we want, we would have been ashore by now. I want nothing more than to do exactly what we have been asking for for so long, that is to say to ensure that the law is adjusted so that it returns to what is the basic intention.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-90	Madam President, I would like I agree with Mrs Karlsson on what she says that no one should have to be afraid of being affected by this, although of course it is for many reasons anyway. But no one should suffer unjustly because the LSS does not work. I think, however, that what we are doing today is exactly what Maj Karlsson is asking for. We are adjusting the law to ensure that it will work, now in a narrow context. It is just as Mr Karlsson himself mentioned in his speech: if this works well, it will show that it is possible to gradually change this legislation, in order to come to the final result that I would think all of us, regardless of party, want to come to eventually. We obviously want these people well; there is no one in either the government or any party who does not want these people to be able to get it as good as possible and live as decent a life as possible. So I think it is good that we have come this far. It is a short distance along the way and a lot remains to be done, but I am at least glad that this has come into place.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-94	Madam President, I would like Last time we Moderates stood in this speaker's chair and debated the issue of personal assistance and the LSS was in April. At that time, the speech by my colleague, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, revolved around freedom. Why? Because the LSS is a matter of freedom. When you have a disability, it is support and the service you get is a question of adding freedom. The support you do not receive is therefore, of course, often a restriction on your freedom. The bourgeois reform of freedom launched by the LSS is to be protected. LSS means increased freedom of choice. It means greater influence and a better quality of life for people with severe disabilities. Madam President, I would like Now it's finally time to make decisions about breathing and gavage. I'm saying that finally, because it's certainly taken too long – too long. I can remind those who are watching the debate that there was already a consensus in the 2018 elections between the parliamentary parties that the basic needs of breathing and probe feeding should form the basis for the right to personal assistance according to the LSS, regardless of the nature of the assistance. I would have liked the government to have acted more quickly on this issue too. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind you that M's and KD's budget in the autumn of 2018 included more resources for LSS, as well as that it was directed to the government to address the problems related to assistance for respiratory assistance and probe feeding. Without the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, there would have been no more resources for state aid, as the transitional government's budget cut down on just that. Neither the Center Party nor the Left Party presented draft budgets containing more resources for the LSS. This, Madam President, was a brief history of how we have got to where we are today. The bill we are now discussing consists of three parts. Firstly, it is proposed that assistance with the basic needs of breathing and probe feeding should form the basis for the right to personal assistance under the LSS regardless of the nature of the assistance. Secondly, it is proposed to include a provision in the LSS stating that personal assistance is not provided for actions within the normal parental responsibility. This provision is not new, but already exists in the Social Security Code, and breathing and gavage are the exception here. Thirdly, breathing and feeding assistance should also be provided when the disabled person participates in childcare or school. The provisions shall enter into force on 1 July 2020. Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to extend warm thanks to the Funkis movement. They continuously contribute their knowledge and self-evident commitment to issues related to LSS. In the Government memo, the Government proposed that it should be written into the legal text that the whole concept should normally be of a very private and integrity sensitive nature but that breathing and probe feeding should be exempted from this requirement. The proposal received very strong criticism from the funkis movement, which felt that the harsh case law of 2009 – which several debaters had already mentioned – would be permanent. It would have been very unfortunate, and that is why it is good that the government has listened to the criticism and removed this from its final proposal to us here in Parliament. To conclude, Madam President, I would just like to emphasise how pleased I am that we can finally resolve this issue, which is so important to those concerned. Most people who have followed the question a little remotely I think have been puzzled to say the least and wondered how breathing and probe feeding cannot be considered a basic need that gives the right to assistance. Well, we've all been asking ourselves that question, haven't we? The fact that the government has not been able to present a bill until now is regrettable and something that the government deserves criticism for, but from 1 July onwards, breathing and probing will be regarded as a basic need also in the sense of the law and give the right to personal assistance according to the LSS – finally, Madam President.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-105	Madam President, I would like LSS is one of our most important freedom reforms. It gives people with disabilities the opportunity to participate in society, work, study and live a normal life. LSS regulates personal assistance, which was introduced in Sweden in 1994. The basic idea of personal assistance is to provide coherent support during the day. In this way, people with disabilities can have the opportunity to both have a working everyday life in their own home and participate in community and leisure activities, have a job or study. However, it is a reform that has been hard hit for many years. Since 2014, there have been a number of deteriorations in the area of assistance. Part of the deterioration is that during the last parliamentary term, the government gave directives to investigations and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency that the cost of assistance must be reduced. There has also been a series of unreasonable court decisions that have led to many people having their help withdrawn. This applies not least to all children who have severe breathing problems and who need help in order to live a good life. Madam President, I would like The Center Party really sees the importance of this reform, and we want to go back to the original idea of LSS – giving people with disabilities the right to live like everyone else. What I think we often forget is that the LSS is a security reform that concerns us all. It is a kind of insurance that we all need to protect and develop. In fact, I think that we sometimes need to remind ourselves and each other that anyone can have an accident at any time; we do not know what happens this afternoon or tomorrow. LSS and assistance is something there for all of us if or when we need it. I think it's useful to think about what life would then look like for yourself and how you would like your life to continue to work. Madam President, I would like We must therefore increase the security of all the children and adults, as well as their relatives, who depend on the LSS to cope with their everyday lives. No one should have to worry about not getting the help they need. Therefore, long-term conditions are needed to establish the right to support and provide security for those in need. We need to get back to the ground and secure the whole. It is thanks to the January Agreement, in which the Center Party and the Liberals in particular have pushed these issues hard, that we can now present, together with the government, this bill, which clearly states that breathing and exploratory assistance should constitute basic needs and give the right to personal assistance under the LSS. It has been very important for the Center Party to bring about this change quickly, in order to increase the security of the children and families who need assistance. I would also like to express my thanks to the Funkis movement, which has been a major contributor to our getting to where we have come today. I think it has taken too long, but I am very pleased that we will soon be on the finish line with this particular part. However, there is a great deal left to be done to ensure that children and adults who are entitled to support actually receive it. Madam President, I would like The right to help with breathing and probe feeding is a fundamental and obvious piece of the puzzle in protecting personal assistance, and now it is important that we move forward and take a holistic approach to the issue. Too much focus on individual pieces of the puzzle risks giving an unwanted patchwork. I believe that there is a need for pure state authority, so that the flat-rate compensation laid down by Parliament is fully applicable. There are some things we hope we can continue with. It is also a question of ensuring that assistance can be administered more effectively. Today, we see that a large number of municipalities have chosen to set their own lower standard, which risks undermining quality and the possibility of providing assistance over time. That is part of the whole that I think we need to continue working on. This proposal is, as I said, an important step and part of the overall and long-term nature that the Center Party wants to create for assistance, because much, much more is needed. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-115	Madam President, I would like We are going to debate a bill about our elderly not having the right to receive home help in any municipality other than their own during the summer – this because some municipalities are worried that there will be problems with staff supply and the spread of infection as a result of the coronapndemine. Older people should therefore not be allowed to visit their summer places, if they are not in their own municipality or region, and there have access to, for example, an alarm, inspection visit or help with their medication. I find this remarkable. First of all, the Swedish strategy for combating pandemics is that everyone takes their own responsibility, follows the recommendations of the Swedish Public Health Agency and refrains from any necessary travel. All the rest of us are expected to follow these recommendations without having to resort to legislation, but older people with a home care need obviously would not be able to take that responsibility. I find that remarkable. Secondly, there is nothing to show that this is, or will even be, a problem. It is proposed in the report that we adopt temporary legislation based on something that has not yet happened and that nobody knows will even happen. Those of us who have been in committee for a long time know well this discussion from previous summers, when there was no pandemic. Of course, there is increased pressure on some holiday resorts during the summer, but the pressure may well be lower this year – we don't know that. I believe that the elderly in society have so far taken a huge responsibility in terms of keeping social distance and avoiding social contacts, thereby taking a great responsibility for their own health and that of others. I am convinced that the elderly will continue to accept this responsibility, but obviously the opposition does not believe that. In fact, I am surprised that it is considered that older people are particularly bad at following the rules and that we need to resort to legislation. Thirdly, it is not the duty of the municipality of residence to provide home care automatically unless the municipality in which the elderly person resides so requests. Therefore, I think that the issue is particularly well suited to be resolved between the municipalities concerned in dialogue. In addition, the municipalities and regions of Sweden have developed support for the municipalities to work in this way. Finally, we cannot deprive the elderly of the right to home care granted to the person. As the committee initiative on which the report is based, this would mean in practice that Stockholm Municipality could be obliged to provide home care in other municipalities as well. I wonder how the parties behind this bill think it would work in practice. Or do these parties think that the elderly who have received home help are granted because, for example, they need help in taking their medication if they choose to visit their summer home? Is there a thorough analysis of the consequences of such a decision? No, this is actually a really bad proposal. There is no substantiated evidence, there is no impact assessment and it is truly offensive to our elderly, who have built up this society and who are actually taking a huge responsibility in this difficult pandemic situation. My view is that if we were to say yes, we would say to the elderly: You cannot judge what is right and what is wrong in the situation we find ourselves in. We must change the law and force you to stay home by denying you the right to home help at your summer home. I don't want that. I call for the proposal in the report to be rejected and for our reservation to be accepted.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-124	Madam President, I would like The pandemic requires action. The pandemic requires us to be aware of where the knowledge comes from when we make decisions. Knowledge and evidence are what we usually make decisions from outside when we see this in different matters. With regard to the proposal for legislation in the report, which is to be clubbed, knowledge analysis is weak. We have received a drawing of officials from SKR, Swedish Municipalities and Regions. This is not a knowledge authority but an organisation for employers. So it's not an authority – it's always good to remember. Madam President, I would like There is a lack of a knowledge authority in this matter, such as the National Board of Health and Welfare, which has some other ideas about this. Madam President, I would like We need to get the infection down. We must test in the care of the elderly, specifically here in Stockholm, where the spread of infection has been devastating for the elderly and the sick. There is a 100% excess mortality rate on retirement homes in the City of Stockholm. I would like to say something about the compliance of the group we are talking about, that is, among the elderly – the 70-pluses – and those with disabilities. It is not those who hang out at the restaurant, which hangs on the beaches close by, which hangs at bars and so on. It is this group that is to be protected, and this group has been extremely responsive. The recommendations and general advice of the Public Health Agency, Madam President, show, among other things, that people as individuals should refrain from unnecessary travel in order not to contribute to the spread of infection. I find it very difficult to see that hordes of 70-plusers would go into the country to different locations. This is not the case now, and there is nothing in this case to show that this could happen. We can also state, Madam President, that municipalities of residence are only obliged to implement the decisions of the municipality of residence if the social services and the municipality of residence so request. Now there is also a reason for disease control. Perhaps one could have solved this with dialogue and looked at SKR's various suggestions on how it should be done. We would like to point out that, according to our assessment at the moment, there is nothing to show that there is a real problem. I also don't think you should make a decision about anything when you can only look in a crystal ball; I think the crystal ball feels like a dangerous base. Madam President, I would like We also lack an impact assessment of what such legislation can mean in the short term and in the long term. It is easy to panic in a pandemic and to make decisions in a race that we can lose control of. In the light of the foregoing, we believe that there is currently no reason for the Riksdag to decide on a temporary possibility for a municipality of residence to refuse home care for persons with another municipality of residence. I therefore support the reservation we support with S, MP and L.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-134	Madam President, I would like We all need to refrain from any necessary travel this spring and summer in order not to contribute to the spread of infection. Each of us has to think. Do we then need a special new law that gives municipalities the right to refuse home help to people who have their summer residence elsewhere than where they are written? No, I really don't think so. I think that the decision that is now being taken is wrong, Madam President, and I would like to support the reservation that we should say no to this. The aim should be to protect, as far as possible, people's freedom to leave their homes even in difficult times. We have a difficult situation – an especially difficult one, Madam President – this summer. In addition to holidays, the Swedish Public Health Agency's guidelines make people need to be at home even in case of mild symptoms, because you don't know if they have an allergy or if it can be covid. However, this can be solved in a different way than through a law, because we must at the same time defend the safety net, Madam President. We must protect freedom, especially for those people who have the slightest freedom. This can be resolved in dialogue with municipalities. I'm convinced of that. We do not need to legislate for another anklet for people who have already had a hard time. Madam President, I would like A newspaper writes that a majority in parliament wants to put bath devils in place. I can reassure all concerned people that these people are already in place, and that is to say. Many of these very people have been avoiding leaving crowded apartments for months. Many have not seen their children or grandchildren for many weeks. Some have partners in retirement homes and cannot meet that person either. The people in home care have already been hit much harder than all of us in this pandemic. And note: the rest of us are not forbidden to go anywhere. The state trusts that we can decide what we should do ourselves and what is a necessary journey under responsibility. Madam President, I would like Not having the freedom to leave your municipality of residence under the safest possible conditions and not being able to use your own property, I think is incredibly wrong. To those of you who have a beloved summer cottage that you have missed all winter, I would say: You should of course be able to go there if it is important to you and if it is possible to solve this in a safe way for your surroundings and for yourself. This is what the safety net is for. The safety net is for every person's freedom and for a safe and rich everyday life, even when the body fails and even during a pandemic.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-140	Madam President, I would like When the Center Party presented the proposal to the committee, it was not a new issue in itself. It had been discussed for quite some time. What the municipalities recommended by the Minister for Social Affairs and in the reservation is to circumvent the law. This is the message that the municipalities have received when they have told us that they absolutely do not want to reduce the right to aid but do not have staff. It is not a question of resources; the government has clearly promised that it will support those who have costs as a result of the pandemic. But you don't have the staff. How can you do the home service that people need when the staff simply do not exist because we follow the guidelines and more people are sick right now? Healthcare professionals are a sensitive group, and we don't have enough testing. The message that the municipalities have received, both from the Minister for Social Affairs and in the reservation, has been: Agree and have a dialogue, so that you do not have to do this! I think that the loud voices we have just heard in the debate would have been justified had the law not been referred to be circumvented. One may well say no to the wishes of the municipalities. The Christian Democrats have done so on all other issues relating to the Social Services Act and the LSS when they wanted to bypass them because of the pandemic. We haven't found any reason for that, because the right you have where you live is yours to keep. It is necessary for you to live a good life. But when it comes to also getting help if you move to a holiday municipality where you have your summer residence, it is also the other municipality's possibilities. Does it have enough staff for the additional guests as well? This summer it is some municipalities that long to receive their summer guests, while others say that they may have a hard time and are not sure if they can do this. The statement from quite a few here in the pulpit and from the Minister for Social Affairs has been that it is possible to agree so that you do not have to comply with the law and so that people do not get this home service. I think it is more straightforward to say: if you have exhausted all the possibilities and this summer alone needs to be able to make an exception, we want to make a change of law. We should be clear that all efforts made in a municipality should be supported by law. We cannot, as legislators, say: try to come to an agreement so that you can circumvent the law! I want to make law, and I assume that every municipality complies with the law. The Christian Democrats believe that it is reasonable for the municipalities to have the opportunity to make an exception only this summer and only in this case, because it is a matter of additional guests that the municipality may not be able to handle. It is therefore necessary to ensure that their own residents are provided with the home help or assistance they need first. The Christian Democrats are therefore in favour of the proposal. We look forward to a bill. I note in the reservation that the reserves think it is too early. It is possible that the bill will therefore come in September, and then it will have its effect. But as legislators, we need to be clear about legitimacy. I expect every municipality to work under the law. That's why I'm a legislator.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-147	Madam President, I would like This is one of the debates that is being held only because there is currently a pandemic that has consequences for the rest of society. It is about whether you should have the right to receive home care when you are staying in a municipality other than your municipality of residence under the extraordinary circumstances. It is a temporary change, not a permanent one, as one might think when listening to some of my colleagues here today. Let me start by saying that the domestic staff are among those who are doing an amazing job right now. Of course, they always do, but at the moment often with little staff, including because of illness and because testing does not fully work, so that people with symptoms that could be caused by corona have to stay at home. Nor do they always have the necessary protective equipment to make them feel safe when they meet them – both for their own sake and to know that they are not contagious. What we know is that this infection is insidious and that people who have not shown symptoms still carry covid-19. Added to this are the instructions given so far by our authorities. We are not going to travel long distances and must all accept that summer 2020 will not be as planned or as we hoped. Against this background, a number of municipalities have signalled that they do not meet the requirements of the Social Services Act 2 a kap. 6 §, which states that when an individual intends to stay for a shorter period in a municipality other than the municipality of residence, and as a result of old age, disability or serious illness needs support and assistance for this, the municipality of residence is obliged – or the summer municipality, as we sometimes call it –... to implement the municipality of residence's decisions on support and assistance. In other words, if the individual has the right to home help in his or her own municipality, it also has the right to receive it during his or her summer stay. Madam President, I would like Today's debate is not about removing the right and freedom to spend the summer elsewhere if, for example, you are older, you have a disability or you have a serious illness. No, it is about respecting that we are currently living in a very special time that temporarily requires other rules and conditions. Ultimately, it is the elderly, the disabled and the sick who are in danger of not receiving the support and assistance they are entitled to. For the reasons I mentioned at the outset, the overly small staffing group must cope with more individuals, which means that care must be reduced for the already existing local residents. It's the law that says you have to. Falkenberg rejected the request for home help with reference to the authorities' recommendations and pointed to the risk of transmission of infection, but lost in the administrative court in Gothenburg on 4 May. It was obvious that you lost. Swedish law is there to be observed, and the law in this case is clear. The authorities' recommendations do not repeal Swedish law. Only the legislature can do that, i.e. the parliament. Among other things, the Court stated that a municipality cannot choose whether or not to comply with the legislation in force. Madam President, I would like The government does not think this is a problem. It feels that if only the municipalities of residence fail to request home help from the municipalities of residence, it will be resolved. It not only ignores those with care needs, the staff who are working desperately to cope with all their patients and the increased risk of infection, but indirectly encourages municipalities to break the law. It's amazing, and it's distressing. The legitimacy of Swedish legislation is undermined when municipalities are not given sufficient support to be able to deny temporary home help. Madam President, I would like On 23 April, we suggested Moderates that Sweden should temporarily amend the Social Services Act so that municipalities should not be obliged to offer temporary home services under the coronapandemin. This was quickly supported by the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. We hoped the government would act, but nothing happened. When the Center Party presented a committee initiative on the matter, it was clear that there was a majority in the Swedish Parliament for such a legislative amendment. That is what is at Parliament's table today and which we Moderates are calling for. I'm a little upset when I hear the Vice-Chairman of the committee. Finally, I must mention that. Who's getting home help today? It's not just anyone. It is people who need support and help. Kristina Nilsson seems to have forgotten three things: Per Svensson, Social Democratic Commissioner in Falkenberg, said on Tuesday 5 May in Swedish Radio: I think we are in an extraordinary situation. Government and parliament should address this issue. I and the Moderates share Per Svensson's view. That's what we do now. Now it is up to the government to act. I support the committee's proposal.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-162	Madam President, I would like I note that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall talks with emphasizingly about the problems of the executive municipalities in this particular situation. I miss an analysis of the situation of the elderly and the possibility of perhaps being able to stay in their summer house and get their home service to which they are entitled. We have in no way called upon municipalities to break the law. We trust that the elderly who have home help can make the assessment themselves. Is it appropriate that I go to my summer house or not? I feel very confident that our wise older people can make that assessment and see what is best for them as well as for their surroundings. I think that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall gets a little caught up in the question as if it were a fact that all older people travel across the board in these times and demand home help everywhere. They don't. There's no evidence of that. It was good that there was a Social Democratic councillor that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall could refer to. But I have not seen any statistics that Falkenberg is particularly burdened in this situation. Nevertheless, we must be able to look at the whole picture. I would like to know: What does Camilla Waltersson Grönvall say to the elderly who think it can safely visit its summer house in Falkenberg even though it has a small home service effort?
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-167	Madam President, I would like It is amazing that we are hearing the Vice-President of the Committee on Social Affairs address these questions to me here today. To begin with, I can answer Kristina Nilsson : Provided that the elderly travel according to the recommendations that we have been presented and do not need home help, that is not what today's discussion is about. I do not believe that there is anyone in this debate who has talked about the elderly travelling across the board. The last time I saw recommendations from our responsible authorities, we would travel a very short distance. Already, many, whether younger or older, cannot take their summer cottages into use. There's something I'm sorry about. If anyone understands, not least if you want to go to the west coast to get recreation there and have a great vacation. It's something that's absolutely amazing. But this is not just any summer. It is quite surprising that Kristina Nilsson and the government do not seem to have understood this. We can't travel like that. Madam President, I would like No one has prevented anyone from travelling. This is about the elderly, the sick and the disabled who are currently at risk of not receiving their home care and the support and assistance they are entitled to. What does Kristina Nilsson say to those who risk not getting the support and help they need there because it brings people travelling to the municipality that makes an already strained staff situation completely untenable? Should we experience that situation where old people do not get their support and help before we react? Then it's actually too late.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-174	Madam President, I would like I am convinced that the old people will get the help they need this year too. Camilla Waltersson Grönvall himself says that many cannot take their summer cottages into use because of the distance. That's exactly what I've been trying to say all along. We cannot legislate on a problem that we have not seen if it has arisen at all. It is important that we all take our own responsibility in the pandemic. It is wrong to discuss in another way just because you have access to home care or have a disability. We must be able to trust that all of us together in Sweden take responsibility for following the authorities' recommendations. If I were to say yes to the legislative proposal that you have tabled, I would say that this group is unable to assume its own responsibilities, so here we have to go in and legislate precisely for them. We have a lot of arguments that there are already when there is nothing to show that it has a tendency to be this way. There are also many more questions arising from the legislative proposal. There are people with home help who have chosen to isolate themselves in their summer house based on their own position. They see that it is better for both their own protection and others' protection than that they may be in metropolitan areas like Stockholm. What are we gonna tell them? Shall we say, "Go home"? No, I think that's completely wrong. It is a pity that there is a majority in favour of the proposal. The old are perfectly capable of making the decisions themselves and making the best of the special situation that prevails.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-180	Madam President, I would like I must honestly say that I find it difficult to conduct a serious debate with people who continue to mix apples and pears. The debate is not about people who have chosen to put themselves in quarantine and not to use society's resources in the form of home care. It is about the people who must have support and who the municipality of residence is planning for according to the conditions they have. They have it safest and safest right now in their regular municipality of residence. There you have the best conditions to plan for it. But when migration is taking place right now, in times of contamination and in times of severe human resources effort, it is these people, the weakest and the most fragile, who are at risk of harm. I find it incredibly sad that you choose not to see these people. It is sad that the Social Democrats are doing this – a Social Democratic government that now also has a representative in the Riksdag who chooses not to understand. Madam President, I would like I choose to interpret it that way, because I cannot believe that Kristina Nilsson does not understand the intention that we should protect those who really need support and help. If you live at home right now, you have the best chance of getting this, but now it's about those who live in these 50-60 municipalities that have signaled that they are afraid of not coping with the situation. Should we get a summer where the conclusion is that not everyone got the support and the help they needed? It could have disastrous consequences. I wonder if Kristina Nilsson is prepared to accept this responsibility.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-185	Madam President, I would like We are all well aware that there is an extraordinary situation in Sweden and in the rest of the world right now. Many municipalities are now being forced to change welfare priorities due to the covid-19 crisis. This affects, among other things, the already strained supply of domestic personnel, especially in municipalities where the number of residents is increased during the summer months. Several municipalities have alerted, and continue to alert, that it will be difficult for them to provide support and assistance in accordance with the Social Services Act this very summer due to the Corona crisis. Already today there is a shortage of staff, and much of the staff working today and working through the crisis so far are now on their knees. They've had a very tough time, and maybe they won't even get a much-needed vacation this year. There is therefore a need for a temporary derogation from the obligation of the municipality of residence to enforce the decisions of the municipality of residence concerning social services. Many elderly people certainly now have an extraordinary need to get out to their country houses during this summer, perhaps after months of social isolation. Today, however, the Swedish Public Health Agency recommends that people as individuals should refrain from unnecessary travel in order not to contribute to the spread of infection. When someone intends to stay for a shorter period in a municipality other than the municipality of residence, and as a result of old age, disability or serious illness, the municipality of residence needs support and assistance in accordance with the Social Services Act, as I said earlier, will still provide support in the municipalities where the possibility exists. The Swedish Democrats support the committee's proposal that the Swedish Parliament announces to the government that it will urgently prepare a legislative proposal that provides a temporary possibility for a municipality of residence to refuse home help for people with another municipality of residence and return to Parliament. That is why, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal. The Swedish Democrats protect Sweden's population and want to do everything in our power to create security for those who are particularly vulnerable during this crisis and to save as many lives as possible. Crisises must not affect how we take care of the groups in society that are most vulnerable and in greatest need of help. We need to support fragile groups. But we must also – it is a responsibility that I believe we have in this House – help those municipalities that are or are being heavily burdened this summer. We must stand firm for all those who need us, even when the crisis is here. Madam President, I would like After all, this proposal does not mean that Parliament, through a law, will prohibit older people from going to their summer homes. In fact, this bill only means that municipalities have the right to refuse home care if they do not have the power to offer it to the summer guests. If you have a summer house and a summer dwelling that you intend to go to in a municipality of stay that cannot offer home help and if you might need a little easier help with medication or such things, perhaps a neighbor or family member can help with the simple effort. As has been said, this bill is not a law that prohibits the elderly from staying in their summer homes, but it provides an opportunity for those municipalities that do not have the capacity to offer the services to them.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-197	Madam President, I would like Those who need home help should not be locked to their municipality of residence. A recent judgment in the Administrative Court of Gothenburg has stated that the recipient municipality is not entitled to refuse to help, according to the Social Services Act. Basically, of course, that is quite right. But in extraordinary circumstances, such as now, everyone must be prepared to adapt to the possible, the reasonable and the safe. Governments, governments and municipalities must find a common way forward. Coping with home care staffing during the holiday on a regular summer can be a challenge for most Swedish municipalities. In addition, in recent months we have seen a great deal of effort being put down and many sacrifices made in our municipalities in order to be able to work sustainably with the ongoing pandemic. The Center Party is clear that we must lay the foundations for municipalities to offer a quality and stable home service for a long time, not least to those with great daily needs. Madam President, I would like Our municipalities have a dimensioning to cope with the inhabitants who are written in the municipality where they normally live. As we approach the summer, there are great concerns that planning and resources will not be enough if there is a large increase in temporary summer housing that needs home help. In the situation we are in right now, we would like to give municipalities the opportunity to temporarily refuse to provide home help to people who are temporarily living in the municipality during the summer. We believe that the focus must be on delivering quality and getting staff to cope, because this pandemic is far from over. The Center Party sees, of course, that it should be possible for the municipalities that can and want to offer home help to summer guests to do so – it is of course free to do so. On the other hand, we need a legal opportunity to say no to municipalities who do not believe that they will be able to do the job without risking quality. Such a possibility must exist. The challenge posed by the current covid-19 pandemic to Swedish welfare is a particularly valid reason to temporarily make exceptions to this freedom that we normally have. The strange thing about this debate is that all parties express that they want to give municipalities the right to refuse home help. Therefore, I think it would have been more direct to also change the law temporarily instead of trying to get something through the back door and actually encourage municipalities to break the law. In my ears, it sounds like double standards. Where dialogue does not work, strong decisions are needed. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-206	Madam President, I would like I put my question to Mr Nilsson because it was from the Center Party that the proposal came in committee. I really don't understand. During this spring I have seen trains emptied, stations emptied and streets lying desolate. Last April in Uppsala it was totally empty. I have seen people follow recommendations persistently for many months. In what way would a vulnerable and fragile body constitute a fragile judgment? I don't understand it.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-208	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the honourable Member's question. This really isn't about older people's judgment or whether they want to go to their summer house or not. This is about us being in the middle of a pandemic right now. We need to do everything in our power to strengthen the municipalities so that they can actually provide home care to those people who are daily living in their municipality of residence and have great daily needs. It is a question of creating a long-term perspective and perseverance. It is certainly not a question of older people being a threat. We want to strengthen the municipalities. If the municipality says it's all right – you are welcome here, you can come and visit your summer house – it is of course free to go. In my world, however, it becomes strange when we tell the municipalities that they can say no to providing home help and then actually urge them to break the law. Rather, we should go along and make sure to give them this opportunity. Why should municipalities, in the midst of an ongoing pandemic, spend time and effort on appeals rather than spending time and effort on their staff and on continuing to develop quality?
i-Cpkbdt8eQZTiNptD8JRmqS	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Nilsson, for your answer. No, I really don't think you should tell someone to break the law. Laws exist to be followed. This is exactly my point: Laws exist to be followed even when it becomes difficult. The safety net does not exist for the municipality's sake or for its own sake. The safety net is there for people, for the most fragile. We must do our very best to give those people their freedom even when it is really heavy. Unfortunately, those are not the signals I get from these municipalities. The signal I get is that you want to say no to leisure homes – not say no when the measure is really heaped and you exhausted all the possibilities, but you want to get it as easy as possible to say no straight off. As I see it, the decision that will now be made means that we say that people exist to adapt to a municipality and an organisation. I think it is exactly the opposite: it is organisations, municipalities and communities that exist to make life work even when the body breaks down. Does Mr Nilsson not agree with me on this?
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-214	Madam President, I would like We have a difficult situation, and this is a difficult issue in essence. The freedom for people to live and stay elsewhere and still have their home help is a foundation of the Social Services Act. But in a pandemic, when we are in the midst of a crisis where we see that together, with common forces, we must do more to create a sustainable situation for more people, I think that everyone must make some sacrifices. Once again, it will be difficult to get the argument together. It is felt that municipalities should be able to refuse home help – all parties have said so – but at the same time they do not want to agree to change the law. There will be some kind of double standards in the matter. The back road explains that the municipalities can say no and that it is okay, but at the same time you do not want to follow and change the law. For me it will be some kind of double standards and a double message for our elderly. At the same time, we also have a public health authority that tells us to stay home more and travel as little as possible. There is also some kind of reinforcement of that part. That is why I think this is the most straightforward and honest way forward. We want to support our municipalities to ensure that they maintain the home care they have and maintain and improve the quality of those who daily have their home care service in their municipality of residence. That is why we presented this committee initiative, which gives municipalities a legal right to say no. But of course: If the municipalities see that there is an opportunity to welcome people, it is free to go to your summer cottage, if you can do so in a safe and secure way.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-219	Madam President, I would like I'll be extremely brief. I would like to support our reservation in paragraph 2.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-220	Madam President, I would like I won't be much taller than Karin Rågsjö. For our part, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservation.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-221	Madam President, I would like Pia Steensland has asked me if I believe that the intention of the LSS – that people with extensive disabilities should be given the opportunity to live like others – is met when the basic need for personal hygiene is limited to only covering assistance aimed at keeping the body clean from dirt and other unhealthy substances. Pia Steensland has also asked what measures, in addition to those set out in the January Agreement, I and the Government are prepared to take in order for people with extensive disabilities to live a life like others in accordance with the intentions of the LSS. Of course, people with disabilities should be given the opportunity to live a life like others. It was the intention when the legislation was drawn up, and that is the starting point for government policy. As the law is written, it is up to Försäkringskassan and the municipalities to interpret and apply the provisions. An individual who is dissatisfied with a decision may appeal it to the General Administrative Court. According to the Constitution, the Government and the Riksdag are prevented from seeking to influence the application of the law in the individual cases. For a number of years, there has been a continuous reduction in the number of people receiving personal assistance. This was also the background to the fact that the Government of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's regulation letter for 2020 commissioned the Authority to analyse and describe the reasons why the number of persons granted the compensation is reduced and the compensation is discontinued. On May 25, 2020, Försäkringskassan reported on the assignment, and we are now analysing the conclusions further within the Government Office. In the light of developments, several measures have also been taken. In 2018, legislative changes were made to abolish the two-year review of assistance compensation and to grant personal assistance for, among other things, waiting time and preparedness. Furthermore, breathing has been introduced as a basic need, and the government has proposed that assistance should be granted for all elements of breathing and probe feeding. In addition, the Government has set up an investigation to make proposals on how to strengthen the right to personal assistance for support in self-care interventions and for the need for assistance with supervision. The investigator shall also review how parental responsibility in assessing children's right to personal assistance can be narrowed.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-225	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I appreciate that the Minister for Social Affairs has taken the time to come to the Chamber today. I know that the Government is working hard to combat the spread of the new coronavirus, and I respect that work. I also appreciate the dialogue that we have linked to the pandemic in the Social Committee. Out of respect for the great workload now placed on the Minister for Social Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs, we Christian Democrats have been moderate in submitting written questions and interpellations this spring. However, when it comes to personal assistance and we see that an already acute crisis is deepening further, we Christian Democrats cannot be silent. It is about defending human dignity and human rights. Madam President, I would like I have called the Minister of Social Affairs to Parliament because the Social Insurance Fund's guidance now states that it is only help that aims to keep the body clean from dirt and other unhealthy substances that can be accepted as the basic need for personal hygiene – and then only those parts of these needs that are of a very private or privacy sensitive nature. In practice, this stricter assessment means that people with disabilities cannot get assistance for basic personal hygiene to put on deodorant, straight legs or armpits, lubricate the body with skin cream after the shower, file the nails, make-up, use conditioner to sort out the hair or fix in order and dry the hair. Madam President, I would like I and the Christian Democrats believe that this stricter assessment drives case law unbelievably far from the intention of the LSS. People with extensive disabilities cannot now live like others. It's obvious to me to use deo to avoid worrying about starting to smell bad under my arms. Just as obviously it is to make up my makeup and prepare my hair in the morning. If I wasn't allowed to do that, I'd feel naked, unfresh, and actually inferior to my colleagues. That would ultimately impair my ability to do a good job. I am sure that both the President and the Minister agree on the importance of being able to look after their external appearance. I'm guessing the Minister of Social Affairs wouldn't want to go unmade to work either. I do not really understand why people with disabilities should not have the right to care for their appearance and feel fresh, which is something that is so strongly linked to self-esteem and self-confidence. We must remember that the stricter assessment of personal hygiene will also mean that fewer people will come up with the critical 20 hours of basic needs a week. More people, Madam President, will thus lose the right to assistance. Of course, I agree with the Minister for Social Affairs' reply that according to the Constitution the government and parliament are prevented from trying to influence the application of the law in the individual cases. But what I and the Christian Democrats think is that it is the government's duty to act quickly and forcefully to change the actual text of the law when the case law has shifted so far that the Authority's assessments run counter to the basic intention of LSS. This is where the government has failed. Nevertheless, it gives some hope that the Minister for Social Affairs says in his answer that people with disabilities should of course be given the opportunity to live a life like others. I also know from previous talks with the Minister that she fully understands how bad things are and that she has good ambitions in this area. I appreciate it. However, my question to the Minister for Social Affairs remains: does the Minister of Social Affairs think that the intention of the LSS is fulfilled when the basic need for personal hygiene is limited to only helping to keep the body clean of dirt and other unhealthy substances? If not, what measures in addition to the January agreement is the Minister willing to take to restore the intention of the LSS?
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-234	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Pia Steensland for the question. It is certainly not the intention that cov id-19 should prevent us from discussing, debating, having a dialogue on and highlighting the shortcomings that we otherwise see in society. I would also like to emphasise that I myself and the government have not wanted to contribute to various kinds of intrusions in the Social Services Act vis-à-vis groups that need the support of society. This applies to everything from LSS and group housing to what the House just discussed about the possibility for older people to be able to get home help in other municipalities. For me, it's different sides of the same coin. People depend on social support in certain situations. You need it to a varying degree: some need it lifelong, and some have needs that look different. My view is that letter interpretation, which I think it is about in this case, of legislation that we see the judges doing is incredible – now I have to choose the words carefully, because I am certainly being quoted – unfortunate and sad. It is not a political decision, and I think it deserves to be reminded, both because this debate is surely seen by those who are interested, concerned and rather cursed and for the future when it is written down. It is not a political decision. I would never contribute to such a political decision. That is my answer to what I think of that interpretation and judgment. On the other hand, when we come to the question of amending the legislation, it is precisely this situation that we have discussed so many times. We are used to it, and that is why we are engaged politically, in wanting to influence the situation we live in and be able to influence the conditions and build a welfare society to which people belong. We do not want to sit and listen and watch when lawyers and other actors make interpretations that are far from what we think should be the reasonable interpretation. I think that this is far from being the case. That is really my answer: I think it is very far from it. Let's look at how we can handle this. It is not possible to get away from what I mentioned in my reply and, as Pia Steensland also repeated, that according to the Constitution the government and parliament are prevented from trying to influence the application of the law in the individual case. At the same time, an individual case becomes a precedent, and it is this crash that becomes very difficult. Nor is it that the legislation lists a number of elements and that the government and parliament can choose to add a few elements, but it is much more complicated than that. But I really have nothing to do with the kind of judgments that restrict people's freedom. The purpose of the legislation is to be able to live a life like others and feel a freedom. That's why LSS is called a freedom reform. I think this is very, very worrying. I would also like to reiterate what I said in my reply, namely that the Social Insurance Agency was given a mandate in its regulation letter for this year to review why the compensation is being reduced. Why is that? What reasons can the Authority see and substantiate? We need to know that in order for us to have the right perspective when we deal with the problems that we see there are. As late as last week, May 25, Försäkringskassan reported on the assignment. Now let's analyze it, and I'm really going to come back. When we get that basis and the answer, we can move on. Then it remains to be seen what material and what evidence from the investigations that are already made that we can use. We need a new basis to make changes to the law. It is not possible to use a regulatory letter, even if it is sometimes described as such, whether it is positive or negative. You can't make a team out of regulatory letters.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-243	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I appreciate the Minister's commitment to this issue. At the same time, I am thinking: it is not a political decision that has been taken, but then it takes a political decision to ensure that we stop this interpretation that is so utterly wrong. We had a debate earlier today on the report on breathing and gavage, and then we Christian Democrats had tabled a proposal to have an additional directive for the ongoing investigation on self-care and parental responsibility – an additional directive to look at the whole of all basic needs so that all that time would be counted as assistance. But it was not supported by the Social Democrats there. It would have been a way forward to actually investigate it instead of just looking at breathing and probe feeding, which is really important, and I am very grateful that this is in place. The report referred to by the Minister from Försäkringskassan, which came from a commission in the letter of regulation, shows that for the first time since the introduction of LSS 26 years ago, the number of assistance hours per aid recipient has stopped increasing. This is what has happened now, and that was also the goal according to the regulation letter for 2016. One of the conclusions is that this is because the very basic need for personal hygiene has been limited. There was a restriction a few years ago that was not as sharp as the one that has happened now. On that basis, we can expect that there will be further tragedies in the wake of this guidance that we are debating today. This investigation also highlights the two-year review and that it has been a major problem. I can only imagine the fear, Madam President, that many people with disabilities and their relatives are forced to live with every day. Think of all those who are terrified that the two-year trials will start again and all those who feel that they have an increased need but do not dare to seek more assistance there because they are afraid to lose what they have! They are afraid that they will have fewer hours and end up below the 20-hour limit, which is crucial to receiving state assistance. Their fear is justified, because the same report referred to by the Minister states: ..................................................... It's totally inhuman. People should not have to live with that fear in the welfare country of Sweden. I hear that the Minister for Social Affairs is not satisfied with what is happening today. At the same time, one might wonder, now that we know and can predict that it will be even worse if we do nothing and do not get to grips with personal hygiene in a good way: How does the government think that people with disabilities and their families will manage their everyday lives when it becomes increasingly difficult to qualify to get their assistance? Is institutional housing the answer? Madam President, I would like I would be grateful if the Minister could develop how the Government views the future of people with disabilities and their families.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-251	Madam President, I would like It is just as Pia Steensland says and as can be seen from at least an excerpt of Försäkringskassan's analysis: For the first time, the number of assistance hours is not increasing. However, I do not really do the same interpretation as Pia Steensland. I note that many of those with assistance probably have very great needs. However, those with less need find it more difficult to get into the assistance. Qualifying for assistance has become more difficult. This simply means that those who are left have many more hours, but perhaps there are only so many that the total number of assistance hours does not increase. How to get into assistance, I would say, is more of a concern than whether the number of assistance hours is increasing or not. They have been increasing for a long time. So I do not think that is the main problem. The problem is you don't get into the assistance. A lot of people get turned down. That's what we need to think about. I do not believe that the issue of personal hygiene is the most dominant. Of course, it is a sign, a proof, or an example of how you are influenced into the skin. I agree with everything Mr Steensland said in her first speech. None of us would want to have to walk straight off the bed and pull on a couple of pants and go to work. There's a lot in it. It is not only about what you think you should look like but also about a sense of dignity. However, I would like to enter into the LSS investigation that was carried out. It was an attempt to take a holistic approach to something very complicated. The investigation was submitted while we had a transitional government – it feels like a long time ago, and that's quite a long time ago – and that's why there wasn't much debate about it. But since it was not perfect in all respects, many felt that it might not be possible to proceed with it. That's too bad. There are many parts in it that we might need. Starting over and starting new investigations takes a long time. Moreover, I find it difficult to see that it only needs to be a little poke in the legislation itself, that it should be a question of a few words. There's a lot that's been patched and fixed. That is why it is not connected and does not correspond to the aims that we really want to achieve. I would appreciate it if we could have a more comprehensive discussion on the legislation. I haven't given up on the possibility of that investigation going out for a referral. That would be good. It would also be good if a lot of people wanted to. It would create a discussion about the whole and focus on the parts of the investigation that one might think are working badly and on the parts where the solution is right. Sometimes the investigator didn't come all the way. There you could help to find better ways. The LSS deserves a larger and more thorough discussion, because we do not have the opportunity to influence different efforts and just add things to the legislation. When it comes to two years' trials, what the authority writes is surely correct. I assume that there are also those who would have more and those who would have fewer hours. A two-year trial does not mean that everything is the status quo, but it can't just lead to a few losing. It was designed to adjust. The government stopped the two-year trial because we were in a situation where there had just been an investigation. There was also concern, and we did not want people to go and worry. There are certainly people who would like a review to get more hours, because the need has changed. However, I would like to make it clear that it is not currently necessary to reintroduce two-yearreviews.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-260	Madam President, I would like The problem with the two-year review is exactly what the Swedish Social Insurance Agency itself says: If you are looking today, case law is so changed that you would not be entitled to the assistance you have. That's the problem. Many people actually have an increased need and would need more hours to manage their everyday life in a good way, but they do not dare to seek because they risk losing the whole. This personal hygiene thing is talking. That's a big part of being able to live like others. It is a large part of self-esteem, self-confidence and the whole part. The problem now is not only that much is broken out as private and privacy sensitive, but also that what to do is broken out. You can't jerk that little annoying hair off your chin or whatever it is. It doesn't count. I think it is important to find a new system, in addition to the basic needs, and to look at the person's overall needs in a completely different way so that there is humanity in the assessments. The Minister mentions the LSS investigation. We have been critical of many of the proposals contained in it. But one suggestion that we think is good and that we ourselves are pushing is to leave the state to be the sole principal of assistance. This would make the 20-hour limit per week for basic needs redundant. Then it would not have to be assessed what should be the responsibility of the municipality or the state. I would like to conclude the debate by saying that I find it incredibly difficult to understand and accept that a person with disabilities would not have the same right as me to feel fresh and take good care of their personal hygiene. It's shameful.
i-596f7bb3097e6c15-265	Madam President, I would like I usually say to Pia Steensland that I appreciate what I do not really think is debate but rather dialogue, but in a more public form here in the seats. I really do. Pia Steensland is constructive and really wants to contribute. I promise you, I want it too. We need to find ways to move forward. I do not believe in the fact that the state would be responsible instead of the municipalities. If the assessments were to remain, that would not make much easier. But I agree with the breakdown of 20 hours. It's one of the things the investigation addressed. That's why it's sad that we've landed in the fact that the investigation is being relegated to the trash can, just because we don't like the entire investigation. Then we'll be sitting on this particular problem. Years pass, and we have no basis for changing the law. When you think that you are right and that the law is incorrectly constructed, you think that it should be simple and that we could just get along. But there is an order in Sweden for how laws should be changed. It'll take time. In the investigation, however, there could be evidence to do at least some things. There's also a lot going on. It is about self-care, supervision and narrowed parental responsibility. I have great hopes for that. In response to Pia Steensland's question as to whether there is anything going on beyond what is already agreed between the government, the Center Party and the Liberals in the January agreement, I can say that the discussions and dialogue of course continue. However, I would like to emphasise that an extensive and extensive investigation was carried out. It took years. It would be difficult to make it over quickly. But I can guarantee that we are doing exactly everything possible within the framework of parliament and government.
