i-0d1469f1073f1264-6	Madam President, I would like Cassandra Sundin has asked me whether I and the government intend to work towards maintaining the knowledge requirement regarding the right of public access or whether the proposal for removal will be accepted. Swedish school should focus on knowledge and education. It is important that the course and subject plans are a good working tool for teachers both when planning the content of teaching and when assessing students' knowledge. On 18 December 2019, the National Board of Education submitted proposals on revised course and subject plans to the Government. The Swedish National Board of Education's proposals are currently being prepared within the Government Office and together with the Center Party and Liberals. I cannot anticipate the preparation that is now being made. For me, however, it is important that the course and subject plans take up what you need to learn in Swedish school. The constitutionally protected right of public access and knowledge of what it means are important issues, and I note that the Swedish National Agency for Education's proposal for a revised syllabus for the subject of sport and health is clearly set out in the central content. In this context, it is important to emphasise that comprehensive school curricula consist of the purpose and central content of the subject and are complemented by knowledge requirements. The purpose of the subject describes what knowledge students should have the opportunity to develop through teaching and ends with a number of points that serve as long-term goals. The central content indicates the mandatory content to be covered by the teaching. The knowledge requirements indicate which knowledge is required for the different grades. They are formulated on the basis of the long-term objectives and the central content and need to be read and interpreted in relation to the purpose, the central content and the teaching that has been carried out.
i-0d1469f1073f1264-13	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have some sympathy for the fact that the Minister cannot intervene in the preparation, but I still think it is reasonable to know the Minister's position on this issue at the moment. This has been the case for a while. Many voices have been heard, and many arguments have been raised on this issue. I agree that Swedish schools should focus on knowledge and education. That is also why the question is whether knowledge requirements are so important. Of course, it is good that the substances are contained in the content, but I still see a risk that, despite the content, this is not included in the knowledge requirements. There are, after all, many parts to be completed during a limited teaching period, which means that there is a risk of down-priority. The Minister said that the knowledge requirements are formulated based on the long-term goals and the central content and that they therefore need to be read and interpreted in relation to the purpose, content and teaching. It opens up the possibility that teaching and the provision of knowledge will be different depending on how one chooses to interpret this on the teacher's side. To interpret something is subjective from individual to individual. This makes it unlikely that this will be interpreted in the same way in all schools throughout the country, especially given that nature and what universal rights mean in practice are so different depending on where in the country you are. There is an important difference between Stockholm and Östersund, where I live myself. It is precisely this uncertainty as to how actual teaching will be conducted and what knowledge students will have with them later in life that I am worried about.
i-0d1469f1073f1264-19	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by stating that there is no doubt whatsoever that the right of public access is not just a constitutionally protected phenomenon in Sweden, but something that is very important to us Swedes. There is no doubt that right of public access is very important. It is so important that it has long been an integral part of the school's teaching. What is the right of public access can also be dealt with in a number of different subjects. For a while now, however, we have had in the curriculum for sport and health that children should learn about the right of access. Anyone who wants Swedish children to really get this important knowledge should ensure that it is included in the school curriculum. The usual thing, Madam President, when writing syllabuses is to state what is most important that teaching should be about in the central content. The central content is not optional. It is not possible to opt out, but it is the state's way of describing what education should be about. As I said, I do not want to anticipate exactly how these different knowledge requirements and curricula, the central content and the objectives and objectives of the different subjects will be finalised. We will do this work within the Government Office and together with the Centers and Liberals. However, I can assure you that the area of knowledge that is our right of public access will have a place in school education – something else would be completely unthinkable. That I can then not answer exactly under which heading this will be presented in the upcoming curriculum texts, I hope that Parliament will understand.
i-0d1469f1073f1264-23	Madam President, I would like The very point of the knowledge requirements being particularly important is that this gives clear signals to teachers about what is important to teach. It also becomes a matter of principle in some sense. It should be clear in both content and knowledge requirements what is important to learn and then be able to take with you into adulthood. Another part of this is that map knowledge is also lacking in the knowledge requirements. If at some point this is needed, it is today. Before the advent of modern technology, it was often a matter of course that one somehow learned to use a traditional map. Today, however, when children and young people, for example, have mobile phones with navigation, maps and GPS, it is no longer natural to learn. It is also, to a large extent, a security issue, which I think many people forget. After all, society has a responsibility to manage what previous generations have created. Alleman's rights are in a way part of our culture and the heart of the folks' home- do your duty, demand your right! Our everyman's right is amazing. The opportunity it gives to hike, pick berries, paddle canoes and much more almost wherever you want is something unique for Sweden and a few other countries. However, this means that responsibility for these opportunities must be safeguarded and highlighted and, above all, taught at an early stage.
i-0d1469f1073f1264-26	Madam President, I would like I must stress once again that what we are discussing here is not whether the right of public access has a place or not in a Swedish school. Allemansrätt has a natural place in Swedish school. With all due respect for the honourable Member's analysis of how a curriculum should be formulated, what words should be found under the heading "C entral content" and what words should be found under the heading "Knowledge requirements", I still have a little more confidence in Sweden's teachers. Sweden's teachers have a difficult job. They have a tough task. It is up to us to formulate the curricula that teachers should work to make the wording as good as possible. The Swedish National Agency for Education has developed a proposal for curricula, with knowledge requirements, with central content and with goals and purpose, and sent it out for a broad referral to teachers' organisations and subject teacher associations. But it has also gone out widely with the opportunity for all Swedish teachers, also for the sports movement and the broad and important movement for outdoor life in Sweden, to come in with views on how the curricula should be formulated. I will, of course, take great account of what the teachers themselves think is best in this work. After all, teachers know best how the teaching should be conducted and where different rules should be formulated in their policy documents. In fact, what we are talking about are teachers' tools, and the teachers are probably best at assessing what these tools should look like. Once again, Madam President, as long as the preparation is in progress in the Government Office, I cannot make any cross-confident statements on how knowledge requirements, central content, subject and purpose will be formulated. But I can assure everyone who listens to this debate that there is absolutely no basis for claiming that the right of public access in any way would not have a place in the Swedish school.
i-0d1469f1073f1264-31	Madam President, I would like In conclusion, the most important thing in this matter is that knowledge of the right of public access must now be increased and not diminished. In order for that to be possible, there are several measures to be taken, but I mean after all that the school is the single most important arena for it. I would like to conclude by quoting Swedish Outdoor Life and LRF: a growing outdoor life – and that is a good thing. Outdoor life and nature make us feel good. Outdoor enthusiasts will meet landowners as well as wild nature as well as used soils and forests. And what is better than this information being secured already in school? We believe that it is obvious that students who have graduated from school should know what the right of public access means – and it is equally important that the same students have knowledge of how a map is constructed and that they can orient themselves in nature. Being able to orient oneself is important and not only affects nature and outdoor life. Knowledge is also needed in foreign urban environments and certainly in emergency evacuations where reference is made only by means of evacuation maps set up in the current premises. Being able to interpret a map and different directions in a fire can be vital. We therefore urge the government not to accept the change proposed by the Swedish National Agency for Education, but to retain the knowledge requirements about the right of public access, about map knowledge and how to orient oneself – in grade 6 and grade 9. .....................................................
i-0d1469f1073f1264-33	Madam President, I would like With some reservation that my memory might fail me, I believe that the wording read by the honourable Member came on the basis of the proposal for new curricula that was on the table for a referral. But I'll leave it unsaid. I'm a little unsure about the chronology of the debates here. For me, it is important that Sweden's children and students get a rich and good knowledge of the right of public access, that they know what fantastic opportunities we have in Sweden to come out into nature and move freely throughout our country. It is an important part of the Swedish history that we Social Democrats have been involved in building up during the 20th century and which has led to Sweden becoming a country that many people look up to. I have high expectations of the work that we are now going to do on curriculum writing, knowledge requirements, central content, subject and purpose. And I can assure Cassandra Sundin and everyone else who listens that the right of public access will have a given place in the Swedish school. Then, at this stage, I cannot tell you exactly on which side and under which heading it will be. But I have great confidence that Sweden's teachers, not least Sweden's teachers in sports and health, will continue to take their task very seriously. Wherever this is inscribed, I am convinced that the teachers will make sure that the children learn a lot. Allemansrätten is an important part of Sweden. It is an important part for us Swedes, and it should be an important part of Swedish school.
i-0d1469f1073f1264-37	Madam President, I would like Gudrun Brunegård has asked me what research the Swedish National Agency for Education is based on when it comes to the use of screens in preschool in children of different ages. She has also asked me how to ensure that the total screen time per day does not exceed WHO recommendations. Preschool should stimulate children's development and learning and offer children safe care. All children and students need to know how digitalisation affects the world and our lives. The education in the school will help children develop an understanding of the digitalisation that they encounter in everyday life. Children should be given the opportunity to develop their ability to use digital technology. They should also be given the opportunity to develop a responsible approach to digital technology. The use of digital technology in preschool education is relatively new, and the National Board of Education has taken into account the research available in the work on the revision of the preschool curriculum. The Swedish National Agency for Education has also involved the profession, children, experts in computer science and researchers in the revision. According to the School Act, all education must also rest on a scientific basis and proven experience. Children will explore the outside world, move, play and train social skills in preschool. They should also be given the opportunity to understand and use digital tools in a way that stimulates their development and learning. Just over a year ago, the WHO presented new guidelines on physical activity, sedentary and sleep for children under five years of age. The guidelines rightly advocate the need for children to be properly given space for play and sleep and for sedentary screen time to be limited. The revision of the preschool curriculum does not mean that children should sit more in front of screens. Health and well-being but also the importance of play for children's development and learning is something that is highlighted even more in the revised curriculum for preschool. The use of digital tools in preschool should of course be done in a responsible and conscious way that benefits children's development and learning. Here I have full confidence in the competence of preschool staff and trust that they manage the responsibility well.
i-0d1469f1073f1264-42	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Education for his reply. There is so much concern about children's needs and learning. It is therefore important that when we design the Swedish curriculum, we base it on research, evidence and facts. There may be different areas of research that partially contradict each other, and then we need to find a good balance between the different parts. The problem with children's screen usage is that, for example, touchpads have not been around for more than twelve years and therefore there is little knowledge about how screen usage affects the long term. Unfortunately, however, many studies show that even small children become more sedentary. It affects motor development, coordination, cognitive development and many other abilities. It also increases the risk of overweight, with all that it entails in the form of increased health risks for both body, self-esteem and mental health. The new, revised curriculum that exists since July last year contains the subject of digital competence. The Swedish Agency for Education's comments describe how preschool children can use digital camera or tablet. It points out that digitalisation in preschool is not about children sitting more in front of screens, but instead the preschool should consciously use a varied range of activities, such as a digital book for reading time. This is basically also what the Minister for Education says in his reply. Nevertheless, I would like to point out a few points. WHO recommendations for children are linked to children's great need for physical activity. WHO's guidelines on activity, sleep and screen time for children under the age of five have the stated goal of changing the long-term screen time for more active play. In addition, the WHO guidelines state that children under two years of age should not be exposed to any screen time at all. Children between two and five years of age should spend a maximum of one hour in front of the screen overall throughout the day, i.e. during the total time in preschool and at home. WHO believes that compliance with the recommendations will improve the child's cognitive development and life-long health. Madam President, I would like Is it particularly prudent from this perspective to increase the total screen usage of preschools – and especially at reading periods when it is so important to point to alternatives to screening and get used to browsing in books, reading aloud and all the stimulation associated with it? Many children are already watching computer, mobile or television far beyond the WHO recommendations and would benefit from discovering alternatives to shielding. In my interpellation, I mention the recommendations of the American Children's Association, on which the WHO is based. My question is: Who takes responsibility for children's total screen time? If screens are used in a varied range of preschools, the use of screens in leisure time is reasonable. Are parents and preschool staff asked to agree on how much the child should use a screen?
i-0d1469f1073f1264-55	Madam President, I would like My obvious starting point is that parents have a responsibility for their children's screen use in their free time. Something else would be absolutely incredible – that society should somehow go in with pointers or views on how children and parents should socialize in the home. I am therefore not planning any changes in any regulatory framework. Let me comment on what Gudrun Brunegård said at the end of his speech that children are still looking at screens. Yeah, that's really the way it is. Anyone who spends time with children knows that the screens have become a natural part of many children's lives. In fact, it is one of the starting points for digital competence being entered as something that preschool should work with. As screen usage increases and as screens are increasingly present in children's everyday lives, it is important that children have an opportunity to understand what it is about and an opportunity to manage these tools, which can be so positive but which can also lead to a lot of negative. I am convinced that the wisest thing we can do in this situation is to ensure that preschool staff have a mission but also the conditions and opportunities to guide children into the digital world that children are partly already in and give children better opportunities to manage, understand and perhaps occasionally put down the digital tools. This should of course be done with increasing age and maturity. It is also something that should happen at the same time as the whole main activity in preschool is the play on which pedagogy rests. In the Swedish preschool, children will climb trees – well, just enough so that they don't fall down and settle – play in the sandbox, learn how to handle cutlery, if they haven't learned it at home, and try to carpentry, paint and draw. But they will also easily start to train on how to use the digital technology that today is such a big part of the lives of many children and families. My starting point is that the wordings contained in the preschool curriculum are well balanced. With them as a basis, our competent preschool staff can give children an even better start in life where children can not only play and explore their surroundings but also with increasing age get a little better opportunity to understand the part of our world that is digital technology.
i-0d1469f1073f1264-61	Madam President, I would like As I see it, this is an important and delicate balance, given that the American Children's Association and the WHO clearly indicate that children under the age of two should not look at screens at all. The only exception is video chats with relatives because it is experienced in a different way than just sitting and staring at a screen. In the two to five year age group, a total of one hour is not recommended throughout the day. Therefore, it is important that preschools have a communication with parents, both to inform parents about the recommendations and to have some kind of agreement and interaction between preschool and home because it will be an added time over the day. The prestigious American paediatric journal JAMA Pediatrics discussed a different perspective in November 2019. The magnetic camera showed structural changes in the brain of preschool children who had spent more hours in front of screens than they recommended. The children who had watched fewer hours than recommended by the U.S. Children's Association did not show these changes. The changes involved are reduced thinning of the brain and bit by bit interruptions in myelination. This is believed to increase the risk of, among other things, poor language development and impaired cognitive ability as nerve impulses do not arrive at the right place quickly enough. The development of these children will be monitored over time, so over time we will know more about its long-term and potentially lasting effects. Another aspect of too much viewing of screens is the development of the eye. Also in Sweden, opticians and ophthalmologists pay attention to the increased risk of too much screen use affecting the development of the eye so that the child develops a permanent myopia. They feel that it is particularly inappropriate to have mobile phones and touchpads at a close distance. The TV is not as dangerous to the eyes as it is further away. We adults also feel that our eyes get tired and dry when we sit too long at the screen. So we all need to think about it. Madam President, I would like As the Minister for Education points out, it is therefore important to teach children how to use screens. So far, so good. Let me ask the question again: how can we ensure that a child does not exceed the WHO's recommended screen time?
i-0d1469f1073f1264-69	Madam President, I would like Gudrun Brunegård's interpellation is about research support about screen time and digital tools for preschool children. However, I note that the whole of Gudrun Brunegård's post is only about screen time. The arguments put forward and the analysis made by the honourable Member are probably the analysis behind the fact that the Swedish National Agency for Education clearly states in its wordings for the new curriculum that the aim is not to increase screen time in school. Two weeks ago I was at the kindergarten Keybug in Vårby Gård. There's a cute little robot that the kids can program. When they program the little cute robot, they let it go from a section on a carpet where there is, for example, a cat, and then the children program the robot so that it will go a difficult way up to the symbol of the hat. On the carpet there are a lot of different rhymes. This is an excellent way for preschool staff to make sure that children learn to rhyme. It is quite difficult for preschool children to learn rhyme, especially those preschool children who do not have Swedish as their mother tongue. Then rhymes can be a little hard to crack. When it comes to the robot, I saw how the children with life and desire, with enormous creativity, without sitting still and without being near a screen managed to crack the code with the game as a method and learn to rhyme on both hat and cat, book and locomotive and a lot of other words that are important for Swedish preschool children. In the Swedish preschool curriculum, we pay greater and greater attention to the early language development of children. We know, with the integration challenges we have in Sweden, how important it is that language development comes early. At the same time, Madam President, we know that preschools where there are many children who do not have Swedish as their mother tongue often have staff who do not speak perfect Swedish themselves. They speak well Swedish, but there can be a break, for example, that preschool children's parents are keen that preschool children should train away. In this situation, a index book where a voice reads the story while the children talk to the educator, ask questions, explore and practice on word pronunciation can be a very good tool. Anyone who attends a fairytale session at a preschool where the educator sits with such a index can hear and see happy children who are interested in looking at the index book and really do not see it as anything but a book, especially as it can be supplemented with other books at the same time. In Västerås I also had a fantastic briefing with preschool children where the staff had been out in nature with the children and photographed a lot of different phenomena there. The children themselves had been involved in developing which parts they would focus on. On a touchscreen that was the size of the whole wall, the pictures came up, one after the other. The staff enlarged and reduced, and you could draw on the pictures. I didn't see passive children. I didn't see children whose retinas were affected. I saw happy and curious children who saw pictures of themselves out in nature. It was perfect preschool pedagogy. This is exactly how our competent preschool staff can benefit from the curriculum of preschool.
i-0d1469f1073f1264-74	Madam President, I would like There are many good examples, and our preschool staff are generally extremely creative and love the interaction with the children. The Minister for Education highlighted a number of fine examples of how digital technology can be used without a passive shielding. What concerns some people, including me, is the total screen time during the day for young children, when research shows that there are risks and dangers of too much screen use. Similarly, if the screens are used in the way described by the Minister for Education, I do not think that there is a major danger for children in terms of eye development or brain development and language learning skills, which are the elements described in American research and which may be affected if too young children sit too long on screens. I would appreciate it if the Minister were prepared to take with him an expression of the overall picture of the children in the course of his work. As we were familiar with earlier, we know that children sit a lot with screens even at home. Preschools can have a dialogue with families about the total time. We are not going to talk about how much children should sit at a screen at home, but there may be a dialogue and an understanding of how it can affect children to sit there too much. Tips and advice can be given on what to do with the child to make it have wonderful play and reading experiences instead of sitting at a screen.
i-0d1469f1073f1264-77	Madam President, I would like There seems to be no doubt or difference of opinion between me and Gudrun Brunegård. Children who attend preschool will play, and I assume that Gudrun Brunegård agrees with me that it is good if children in preschool start the lifelong learning that will enable them to manage the digital technology that has become so important in our society. I note, Madam President, that I am standing here with paper and pen and answering the questions of the interpellier and that the interpellant reads from his toad. Technology has become part of our reality for good and evil, and then, of course, the children will learn to handle it. At the same time, it is important to state that children's screen time is not the same as preschool's work on digitalisation, which is so much more. I would like to stress strongly that the aim of the changes in the curriculum is in no way to increase children's screen time or to encourage passive screen use, but the aim is to increase children's opportunities and opportunities to use digital technology that is an important part of small children's everyday life in a creative, competent and source-critical way today. Gudrun Brunegård asked a number of questions about preschool communication with parents. I assume that Swedish preschools also communicate on the issue of how much children come into contact with different forms of digital tools. I maintain my earlier statement that children's home screen use is and should be the responsibility of their parents. I thank Gudrun Brunegård for the question. It is good that we pay attention to the important work of preschool in ensuring that children get a good start in life when it comes to lifelong learning.
