i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-0	Madam President, I would like Because there are a number of buildings around the country that are decaying, Gudrun Brunegård has asked me if I have taken any steps and if I am prepared to take some of the measures that Boverket has proposed in its report. Boverket's report shows that there are a lot of buildings that do not meet the requirements of the Planning and Construction Act for maintenance. In some cases, the deficiencies are reported to the Building Boards, which are obliged to decide as a supervisory authority whether there are grounds for intervention. The management of supervisory matters requires a relatively large amount of resources for the construction boards, which are currently financed through the municipal tax. A direct consequence is that cases are not prioritised in a number of municipalities. Successful supervision requires reaching the property owner with notification of decisions. In other words, the municipality is in danger of having to bear the costs of, for example, demolition of a derelict or abandoned building. In its report Unkempt plots and decayed buildings, Boverket has proposed a number of measures and several legislative proposals, highlighting areas that would be further investigated. Boverket proposes, for example, an investigation into the possibilities for building boards to charge fees for their supervisory work, further guidance to municipalities on how they can work in the area of supervision, and state aid to municipalities for the enforcement of certain decisions on demolition orders. The report has been consulted, and the proposal to further investigate fee funding for supervisory work has been made particularly important by many municipalities and several county boards. This is a conclusion I agree with. In order for municipalities to have reasonable conditions to add resources to work with the supervision of, among other things, abandoned houses, my ambition is that the prerequisites for tolling the construction boards' supervision work should be investigated. Further guidance to building boards to support their oversight work is provided by Boverket in the framework of the PBL competence mission. All other proposals are currently being prepared within the Government Office. In the 2020 regulation letter, the county administrative boards have been tasked with presenting good examples from their respective county municipalities on when the construction boards' supervision was coordinated with other municipal supervision and on how the boards' supervision can have positive effects on other municipal activities. A collection of good examples of how different municipalities with different conditions work with their supervision should in future be able to guide the municipalities in the organisation of their supervisory work. As I recently explained in a question answer to the Riksdag, my intention during my term of office is to improve the conditions for construction boards to work with the supervision of, among other things, abandoned houses.
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Housing Bolund, for your answer! Let me start by saying that I love old houses! They have a soul, a character and a story worth preserving. On a relative of my husband's estate there was an 18th century house that had been uninhabited since the 1950s and was only used as a garbage shed. Eventually the owner came to the point where you have to decide whether to put in a lot of money and change the ceiling, change the wall panel and so on or take down the house. My husband and some relatives made a joint deal with the property owner-- we took care of the house, and he cut off the property and sold it for a symbolic sum to us. After many years, a lot of work and much joy, this house is now a gem that hopefully will stand for at least 100 more years if you continue to care for it. Unfortunately, not all fairy tales have as happy an ending as this one. The origin of this interpellation is really a letter that I received from a woman who grew up in a house that her parents had built– I think it was in the 50s. After the family had moved from the municipality, the property was sold. It was then sold on and changed owners a few times. Current owners cannot be found. The woman writes as follows: The parents' home is falling apart more and more every year. My question is whether you can legislate in the near future on the demolition of the house. In addition to letters to the County Administrative Board and the Land and Environment Court, I have been in contact with the Chairman of the Environment and Construction Board. He has announced that nothing can be done, but it must be legislated on this. He informed that this had been discussed in the past without results. In my appeal it was stated that the plot is overgrown by sly growing around the house. The balcony door is open – anyone can have access to the house. There's a flood in the basement. In the kitchen there is plenty of mail. Here have lived a number of different people, but we have not been able to find previous accommodation despite a lot of applicants. According to the neighbors, there are plenty of snakes in the garden. Neighbors are despairing as there are visits by various noisy individuals who have the house as a nest. In the community, the house is called the drug nest. This is my old parents' home, but I also feel for the neighbors. A house that in idyllic society just stands and matures more and more – how can this happen, and who is responsible? Now that we all have to take care of the environment, can it not be right that properties should decay in this way? The house should be demolished; it is far too decaying to be able to be renovated. The plot can then possibly be used for a new property, where even the neighbors can feel good in their accommodation. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Boverket's investigation points to a wide range of possibilities. As I see it, it is unfortunate that such a long time has passed, because in the meantime some properties have fallen even further. The sanitary situation and the inconvenience have also contributed to a drop in real estate prices around the city, as the municipality cannot do anything about it. It is good that good examples should now be collected, but I wonder if the Minister thinks it is powerful enough to just propose – as it was now – to collect a number of good examples. Do we have a bill with more extensive legislation to wait?
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-19	Madam President, I would like The issue raised by Gudrun Brunegård may seem small, but a small search of interest actually shows that the problem is bigger than we think. In my home county, in the municipality of Falkenberg, they have tried to make an inventory of how many of these houses it can be about. The figure arrived at is staggering: 1 300. This applies to a municipality of 290. Many of these houses are certainly in very poor condition and are a bit remote, but as for some of them, the rest of us might feel that it is extremely unnecessary that they are not used for housing now that we as a nation have a shortage of housing. It can of course be a small summer cottage, a detached plot or a family farm in which no one lives. For my part, this problem only in the individual municipality of Falkenberg shows that the problem is more worrying than it seems at first sight, both from a safety point of view and from a housing perspective. If we find it difficult to reach the owners and if in some cases the ownership is unclear, so that we do not know who is the owner, these homes can actually be taken into possession by anyone. The problems and opportunities of municipalities are quite obvious. Our legal system is, as a rule, based on dialogue with a counterparty, and it is assumed that there is a counterpart who is interested in dialogue. I believe that we, as legislators, should have proposals from the investigation carried out in 2015 by Boverket, as the Minister said. There are a number of proposals that I can see are relevant and can strengthen the municipalities in the process. On the other hand, the proposals that will not impose new charges on municipalities must provide them with the right tools. I cannot see that any municipality would want this situation in its municipality. They have clearly and easily identified their difficulties in addressing and managing costs and in reaching decisions when, in principle, they do not have a counterparty. Municipalities often run the risk of having to bear the costs of enforcement. This is due to the often very low value of the properties and the fact that the owners lack or have very limited financial capacity. There are then no conditions for municipalities to be paid for enforcement costs through foreclosure with the owners. In some cases, such as the execution of a demolition order, the costs may amount to significant amounts far above the value of the property itself. The Minister replies that he wants to enable municipalities to make supervisory matters subject to a charge. A fee often depends on the purpose and who pays. If you charge a fee more regularly, without making a risk assessment, there is often an extra charge. On the other hand, there is the problem of desert houses in many cases that they do not have an owner, and it is quite impossible to impose a fee on someone who does not exist. I would like to ask the Minister whether there are no more measures in this investigation that would be possible and whether the direction should not be to help the municipalities, to give them the tools that are needed, to ensure that these houses are managed in one way or another. I guess that's what we're going to do. I believe that Gudrun's description of the house they have taken care of demonstrates the possibility that exists in these houses. If there are only 1,300 houses in Falkenberg, there are probably quite a few around Sweden.
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-29	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Gudrun Brunegård, for the interpellation! It is an urgent issue and a problem that exists around Sweden and that we need to think carefully about how we can overcome. It is of course the building committee in the municipalities that has the main responsibility for supervision according to the Planning and Construction Act. However, we must also ensure that municipalities are in a position to deal with this problem. At the same time, let me remind you that this is not a new phenomenon. It is not something that has arisen in recent months or years; it is something that we have had to live with for quite a long time. It is important not to simplify such an issue that is actually quite complex. The Christian Democrats are, of course, a party which, in many cases, otherwise very much defends property rights. In many cases, it is a difficult balance between the right to own and the municipality's responsibility to ensure that the properties are managed in a good way. Therefore, it is dangerous to draw too rapid and large conclusions and go to action that, in the worst case, is found to be flawed or even harmful. Parts of Boverket's report have been out for consultation and have received quite sharp criticism of referrals. One example is the proposal for simplified service, that you do not need to find the person who owns the house and hand over a service notice, but can do so, for example, via advertising. There, however, the criticism of referrals has just consisted of a lack of legal certainty and conflict with property rights, which is a problem at the other end. Houses are also very much about emotions. Gudrun Brunegård takes as an example the childhood home and the family farm, which may play an emotional role for the family. There may be many different examples, such as an elderly relative who during his aging period is unable to take care of the house, even though there is a great emotional value in it, or a person who goes abroad and does not take care of the house properly but still has a desire to continue owning the house. Here it is important to find a balanced measure that will enable us to get to grips with the problem without thereby compromising fundamental principles of legal certainty in Sweden. I can assure you that the government is working on these issues. We take the proposals in Boverket's report further. For example, we have commissioned the county boards to see if there are good examples where effective solutions have been found and to spread this knowledge to other municipalities that can use the same solutions. But it's not enough. We need to do more. We are now working on a proposal to investigate the details of how to give municipalities the right to charge a supervisory fee. This is something that the municipalities have longed for. It is also clear from the outcome of the consultation that it is a measure that one feels is keen to get in place. I share that picture, and that is also what the government is now working on. It is therefore a wide variety of measures proposed in Boverket's report. Some we take care of in the near future, others we need to think about and see how we can ensure that there is a balance between different legal interests: the interest to take care of deserted houses and houses that pose risks to the protection of property rights and fundamental legal principles in Sweden.
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-37	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answers and good conversations so far! I'm thinking of a number of different properties that I can see in front of me. I asked a question to the parliamentary investigation service, which tried to make an analysis of how many properties this could be in the country. Although they applied to municipalities and also to the Central Statistical Office, it was not possible to obtain an exact number because there are no statistics at a detailed level. You can see the number of injunctions, but you can't see what's the background to the injunctions. I don't know what the exact number of desert houses is, but in a small neighbouring municipality of mine, I know it's about well over 100 houses. And we just heard the example from Falkenberg, which Larry Söder mentioned. One way to increase the attractiveness of living in rural areas – if you can't track an owner or if an owner doesn't care about taking care of the house and following the injunction given – is to consider possibly expropriating the property and selling it at an executive auction for a connection to renovate the property, settle in the area, contribute to the municipality's tax revenue and so on. This is something about which, not least, people from various building protection interests and rural associations talk, and it is an argument that I have heard during the time that this issue has been discussed. How would the Minister react to such a solution when all the possibilities have been exhausted and there is no ability or willingness to take ownership of a property? Both your party and our party pay tribute to the idea of stewardship. Ownership of a property is a matter of responsibility, and if you do not take that responsibility, you have somehow forfeited your property rights. There are difficult issues to weigh against each other, and I understand that it takes time and balance before any progress is made. I also wonder about what the Minister mentioned about fee financing for the Environment and Construction Boards in this type of case. But who would pay if an owner is clearly untraceable and unable to pay? Should that fee then be distributed to other property owners? It is also contrary to some kind of reasonable principle. I would like answers to these questions.
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-43	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Minister that we should proceed cautiously on these issues. The report dates from 2015, and steps have been taken to make proposals. I fully understand that it has taken time, but I think we may be on the way to bringing something to the House in one way or another. I do not think we are so far apart, but we think it is important to preserve the houses that are possible to preserve and in some way ensure that there are owners who are willing to manage the houses. Ownership is important. Therefore, I think it is important to focus on those houses that actually do not have an owner, that is to say, someone who does not fulfil his duties as an owner. In situations like this, civil society sometimes grabs things, which makes you actually quite happy and proud. Associations have been set up that seek out desert houses, try to find the owners and connect owners to buyers who can restore the houses. They can also help with information on how to proceed, what materials are needed and more. Civil society assumes its responsibilities, I would say. As politicians, we should be happy that civil society goes in when it does not work. It is not just a question of giving municipalities the opportunity to charge additional fees. We need to give them more tools. As the Minister says, this is the responsibility of the municipalities, but as legislators we must also give the municipalities the opportunity to assume this responsibility. It is a little thin today, but my hope is that we can solve it in the future.
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-48	Madam President, I would like Ownership rights have a strong position in Swedish law. Often it is an advantage, but sometimes it can lead to some difficulties, for example when the owner does not take responsibility and does not take care of his property, which can lead to risks for third parties and the environment. We want to give municipalities more opportunity to act. One thing that has been clear restraint for municipalities is that they cannot charge a fee for what is called general supervision, such as supervision of deserted houses and fallen plots, because it is tax-financed. Many assessors say that it is a restraining force that prevents municipalities from addressing these issues. What we are proposing, and what Boverket is also proposing in its investigation, is that the exact arrangements for the levying of such a fee should be investigated as quickly as possible. In the investigation that we are now working to set up, we will get answers to many of the questions Gudrun Brunegård asks. It would be foolish for me to draw conclusions before the investigation is done, but I eagerly wait to set up the investigation and then get answers to the questions. What we can see is that the municipalities themselves are very much calling for this tool in order to be more active in taking responsibility and having more active supervision of desert houses. That is why we are going to take a step in the near future. Of course, we also welcome the initiatives taken in the individual municipalities that are active and have a well-functioning job. Similarly, we welcome initiatives from the surrounding society, such as neighbours and local residents who take responsibility and raise the issue and point out that there are risks, and civil society in the form of associations that work actively to try to find the owners and find an active owner who takes care of the property. In Boverket's report there are many different suggestions, and as always when there are suggestions of different chatting years they take different lengths of time to implement. Some things we can do quickly. In the case of others, we need more time to get all the details in place and be able to make the sometimes rather difficult balances involved. When it comes to giving building boards more opportunity to finance the supervision of desert houses, we believe that we can move forward in the near future. We will have to come back to many of the other points. We have not written off any points, but we will work with them and try as quickly as possible to give the country's municipalities better tools and opportunities to deal with this problem.
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-55	Madam President, I would like As I read through Boverket's long list of possible measures, I realise that some may be controversial that require investigation and consideration before you can put your foot down and make legislative proposals. I fully understand that. One thing that is on the list and that many municipalities are also asking for is state aid to the municipalities to enforce certain decisions on demolition orders. I mentioned the small municipality with up to 200 abandoned houses, and it is totally unreasonable for a small, economically crowded municipality to take on all the costs of it. Let me put that idea into the further work. The reasons why properties stand and fall due are many and different. This could be property that has been inherited and forgotten or that an owner is moving abroad, as the Minister mentioned. It can also be an estate where relatives do not know that they are partners or that the property owner lacks money to rebuild the building. The municipality could pay with its own money and then hand over a debt to the bailiff. However, this cost risks being high for the municipalities. For those who live in the neighbourhood and see buildings decay and become deserted houses, shelter and sanitary inconveniences and for crowded municipalities, I would urge the Minister to work on.
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-60	Madam President, I would like I thank Gudrun Brunegård for the interpellation. It is an urgent issue, and I know that many municipalities find it difficult to take the responsibility they want to take. It is clear that many municipalities see problems with houses that mature and owners who for various reasons do not fully assume their responsibilities. The Government's ambition and my ambition as Minister of Housing is, of course, to give municipalities the opportunity to deal with this. According to the legislation, municipalities are primarily responsible. In the end, however, it is the responsibility of the owner to take care of his property, and that applies to all owners. Most people are doing well, but unfortunately there are also problems of various kinds. It is not just about unwillingness or not wanting to spend resources on it. They can also be sickness, travel or similar. As the owner has the main responsibility for his property, it is also the owner who has to pay for the property's maintenance. If the owner does not want to take care of the property, the owner must pay to demolish the property or sell to someone who wants to take care of it. It may be problematic to set up State aid because it would take over the financial responsibility of the owner who should legitimately take it. On the other hand, there are times when you cannot find the owner who should take responsibility. There is a parallel in the responsibility for the clean-up of contaminated land, where there is, of course, a responsibility for the owner to take care of the pollution caused by the latter but where the state has a responsibility to enter when one cannot find an owner. I am not ruling this out, but because it is an economic issue, it needs to be dealt with in the budgetary process and weighed against other urgent efforts. We will have to come back to this proposal, just as we will have to return to many of the other proposals on the Boverket list. This is an urgent issue on which the government is working intensively.
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-65	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked me if in 2020 I will come up with proposals that mean that we see reforms as beneficial housing savings and start-up loans implemented in Sweden. At the outset, I would like to make it clear that the kind of reforms requested by the interpeller have budgetary implications. Reforms with budgetary implications need to be set against other possible reforms in the context of the budgetary proposal. Therefore, at this stage, I cannot give any indication of the reforms that will be proposed. I would like to stress that it is important, together with the municipalities, to help create a housing supply that meets both needs and demand around the country. In addition to continuing new production of dwellings with different forms of tenure, mobility needs to increase in the housing market – in the first place for there to be a variety of housing and tenure forms that suit everyone. More housing is needed throughout Sweden, not least to make it easier for young adults to get their first home. The challenges of establishment in the housing market are complex. There is therefore a need to look more closely at how the housing market can function better, and the Government intends to continue to work actively to ensure that more households have their needs met in the housing market. In accordance with the January Agreement, a comprehensive tax reform will be implemented that will, inter alia, reduce household indebtedness and contribute to improving the functioning of the housing market. In such a review, it is natural to take into account the opportunities of young people and others to establish themselves on the housing market. The possibilities of developing housing suitable for different types of households should be increased. One step on the way to achieving this was that the Government decided in the autumn of 2019 to introduce a start-up grant to so-called village communities. It is a form of housing that is relatively rare today, where people plan and build housing together. In order to enable more people to enter the housing market, investment support for rental and student housing was introduced in autumn 2016. Since then, the aid has been granted to more than 29 000 new dwellings with rents that are relatively lower than for other newly produced dwellings. In accordance with the January Agreement, the Council has recently decided to reintroduce investment aid in a more effective form from 1 February 2020. More effective support contributes to a continued high rate of construction of housing with relatively lower rents throughout the country.
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-73	Madam President, I would like We have too low a rate of construction in Sweden. According to Boverket's forecasts, 50 000 homes will start in 2020, which is significantly lower than the 65 000 – 70 000 forecasts that we should build. At the same time, construction is distorted to the extent that half of these dwellings are rental apartments, when we also know that seven out of ten want to own their own dwelling. At the same time, we know that the reforms made by the government in the last parliamentary term and now presented in the response are almost exclusively aimed at increasing the construction of rental apartments and making it difficult to build and own their own homes.
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-76	The tax reform referred to in the answer has seen no activity in public. A tax reform should reasonably take time and include a broad majority in the Riksdag, which should mean that work should start in order to get there during this term of office. When does the Minister estimate that work on the tax reform will start in earnest? I also note that the Minister considers the investment support to be a large part of the government's new housing policy, which will increase the number of homes being built in Sweden. I can only say that investment aid is not a housing policy measure, but is a business policy measure because it goes directly into the business performance balance. If one had had the ambition to conduct housing policy, it would have been support, subsidies and reforms aimed at the customer regarding housing, i.e. see the possibilities for what I am addressing in my interpellation – to explore the possibilities of introducing housing couples or starting loans, or perhaps, a good day, to introduce both in order to create a little housing policy. The Minister has previously said that he is in favour of bospar, and I understand that in an interpellation response he refers to budgetary difficulties and balances between different items. But when only the Minister and I are here listening, we should be able to be a little more personal and get along. The thing about housing and starting loans is pretty good – let's do it. Nevertheless, I have to say that I am in favour of the allocation in part of the answer – to try to look at other forms of ownership and participation outside the traditional ones. We must, as the Minister writes, try to find ways to suit the citizen and its situation. I would like to send you two forms that I have looked at some, which I would like to see considerably more in Sweden and which I think fits quite a lot. I think we could introduce rent purchases, where part of the rent goes to buy the dwelling. Those who sign a rental agreement also sign an agreement on own management and renovation of the dwelling in order to reduce their rent and increase the provisions for the purchase of the dwelling. Those who move before the dwelling is fully paid for will be bought out by the landlord or by a new buyer. We can also develop the participatory method. Shareholder housing enables ownership in an apartment building by contract, and can combine the benefits of the rental right and the right-of-occupancy right. Some dwellings can be sold directly to reduce tied-up capital. Other apartments are rental apartments, and all residents pay for the common administration over time. In addition to the questions I had earlier, I would like to ask the Minister for Housing: Why does the Minister not see an opportunity to introduce housing couples and starting loans now, when virtually all parties in the Swedish Parliament can consider looking at this?
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-84	Madam President, I would like It was a rather broad post with many different puzzle pieces and more than the two questions that Larry Söder asked in the interpellation. Let's start with the construction. We can jointly note that the construction is now about double the level compared to what it was during the eight years that the Alliance had government power and the Christian Democrats had responsibility for housing policy. It is easy to be critical in opposition, but it is important to show that you can make a difference in majority when you have the responsibility. I am proud that we have been able to maintain a high rate of construction in all our previous four years and that it continues to be so, compared to the historical average in terms of construction. Then housing construction is not the whole answer to the housing shortage that exists, but we need to find many solutions to get good housing for everyone, which is the government's goal. I must strongly respond to Larry Söder's description of investment aid. It is simply wrong. To say that the investment aid does not have a housing policy effect is, in fact, not to listen to the many municipalities and municipal companies that use the investment aid to build and who say that without the investment aid they had not built so much, had not built at the same price and had not achieved the construction they are now doing. I do not think that we listen to or understand all those who now have access, through investment support, to a rental apartment with a reasonable rent cost. I am generally concerned that the Christian Democrats, in their eagerness to talk for ownership in the housing market, are talking down rental rights as a form of housing. I think this is something that the Christian Democrats should reflect on – what responsibility they take. It is still, traditionally, that for those who do not have a large fortune or a large income, the rental apartment is a good form of housing, and there are many, not least young people, who would like to take a rental apartment if they got access to one. It is therefore difficult for me to understand how we can always say critically that efforts to increase rental apartments in the market would be, as it sounds, something negative from the point of view of the Christian Democrats. We also know, which goes without saying for everyone who follows the housing market, that the rental market and the owned market are interrelated. If more people have the opportunity to move into a rented dwelling, the pressure on the property will decrease and prices will not flash as they have for a long time, not least in the years that we had a bourgeois government. I think there is a danger in simplifying the reasoning and, as Larry Söder tends to do in his interpellations, just describe it as ownership is a source of wealth and happiness. It has been a ten-year period back where there have been very rapidly increasing prices, especially in our metropolitan areas, and where it has basically been the case that you have made money just by living, which is not something that should be taken for granted – that it will be that way forever, nor that it has looked like that before. Let us remember that in the 1990s, when we also had a bourgeois government, we had a severe economic crisis in Sweden where house prices fell, unemployment rose and people had to leave their homes. They had high loans, the price of the dwelling fell sharply and they had to sell but keep the loans. Still today, there are people living with debt from the 1990s that they have not been able to work off. Let's make sure we don't simplify. On Larry Söder it sounds like everyone should have the opportunity to take out a loan to move into a owned dwelling, no matter what income you have. We have seen very difficult situations that have arisen through that kind of thinking. Let's not go back to that track again. This is an area that does not deserve to be simplified, but we need to work on a broad range of measures in the area of housing policy. Ensuring that we get a good rental market is an important part of a functioning housing market.
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-92	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Housing and I have different ways of looking at investment support. It's obvious. I firmly argue that the aid has no impact on housing policy when it comes to the de facto construction of more homes. Of course, apartments are built – rental apartments. Rental apartments are built which are cheaper because the companies receive support. But if you look at the facts from Boverket, you can see that residential building and the number of completed dwellings decreased in 2018 and 2019. The projections for 2020 are that they continue to decline. The forecasts available for 2021 also show that they are decreasing, even though we have investment aid. We can also agree on how long it takes to plan and build a dwelling. It takes between five and seven years. With regard to the large housing building that took place at the beginning of the last parliamentary term, one can thus refer in some way to the then alliance government. The figures for construction that are now falling are only the government that was in place during the last parliamentary term and is now responsible for. We can also discuss whether the property is the best or not. But the facts show one thing, namely that the property owned over time is most economically beneficial to all people. Owning a dwelling for a number of years ahead is much cheaper for the individual, even for young people, than living in a rental apartment. When you live in a rental apartment, you actually pay someone else's profit, except for all the investments made in the rental property. Therefore, I am keen that people should be able to choose between rental and owned housing. Then you can have rental rights and own housing in various forms, just as I tried to talk about in my previous post. But people should have the opportunity to choose the owned accommodation if they want. My question to the Minister was therefore: is it, for ideological reasons, a choice to make reforms that only benefit rentals in Sweden, or do we also see opportunities to make reforms in the area of owned housing? Then I think of, for example, housing savings and starting loans. The Minister and I have agreed that housing savings can actually be a good concept for Sweden. But I do not see any steps being taken to make this happen. It cannot be just the Minister for Finance who decides which housing policy we should have in Sweden. In fact, I believe that the Minister for Housing has an opportunity to be involved in governing housing policy in Sweden. I have faith that the Minister for Housing can see the reforms and opportunities that both housing savings and start-up loans have. However, we must also be able to take a position on such proposals in this House.
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-98	Madam President, I would like I think that one should be careful not to make simplified history descriptions and say that one has a crystal ball and can thus see what development there has been with different alternatives. To say that it is because of investment support that housing construction is decreasing or to say that housing construction would have decreased more if we had not had investment support or similar is something that neither Larry Söder nor I can answer. What we know is that when the municipalities and the municipal companies that actually build housing in Sweden answer the question, they say that investment support makes a difference and that they build more with investment support than they would otherwise have done. Larry Söder should listen to these voices too. I think that the owned housing has a very important role to play in the Swedish housing market. I think it should basically be that the individual should decide which accommodation suits his or her preferences. I know many people who think that rental apartments are perfect for their preferences. They do not want to take care of everything that it means to own and manage a property. Many others think that the owned accommodation fits their conditions very well. Let us not stand here in Parliament and decide which accommodation people should have. However, I think it is irresponsible if you try to pursue a line where you say that all people should have the opportunity to buy a dwelling where they want to and that suits them well and that the state should then have the task of always ensuring that people can take out loans, regardless of whether they have the financial conditions to bear these loans. We have seen the effects of such a policy. We have seen the effects of it in Sweden, as it led to an economic crisis. It has also led to a huge number of people getting into a huge debt problem, such as many young people. Let's not, Larry Söder, put more young people in this situation. It should be a responsibility that we can take together. We have seen the effects such thinking can have on both national and international levels. I would like to remind Larry Söder that the whole financial crisis that started in the United States had its background in what was called subprime loans, that is, the housing market and, above all, the lending sector gave housing loans to people who did not have the capacity to bear the costs of the loans. As a result, many people in the United States were evicted from their properties. They lost their home for which they had taken out large loans. It also led to an international financial crisis that has also damaged our economies and very many citizens of our countries very badly. Do not simplify this problem! Do not pretend that you can be the donor of all good gifts and that you can give loans to all people regardless of whether they have the economic viability to actually repay these loans! It is not a service, either to the housing market, to the economy or to the individual citizen. Of course, we should do what we can to give people the opportunity to get a good place to live. We do so through a large number of measures included in the January agreement. We do so through budgetary reforms, such as the start-up support that is now available for village communities that allow people, not least young people, to go together and start planning for housing – a project that suits their circumstances. It is a phenomenon that we see in other countries, such as Germany, which has taken a large part of the new construction in the local markets. It is something that we also believe has great potential for Sweden as well. It creates a new channel for housing construction that Sweden really needs. But it is also important to ensure that we do not push over the economic risk to the individual and put people in an economic situation for which they are ultimately unable to take responsibility. It's not a way to solve people's problems. In the worst case scenario, it can actually be a way of creating problems for people, where they end up sitting without housing but with a completely unsustainable economic situation. We will do what we can to give people the opportunity to create the housing they want themselves. If people want to choose a rental apartment, we will create opportunities for people to do so. But we should not put people at risk that they cannot handle either.
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-106	Madam President, I would like I would like to say that I do not have a crystal ball, but I use the facts that exist, including from Boverket, which shows how the development has been in terms of housing construction in Sweden. Then you can read about what it was like in 2018 and 2019 and the projections for 2020 and 2021. It doesn't need a crystal ball for that. Just read what Boverket writes and the figures available. I agree with the Minister that Parliament should not stand and decide what kind of resident Swedish citizens should have. But we must also give people the opportunity to choose accommodation. The Minister claims that I would like everyone to be able to take out loans for a living. That's not what I'm saying. However, the credit restrictions imposed by your government have caused more and more people to reject their loan applications. This means that credit restrictions mean that fewer and fewer young people can buy their own home. The Minister must also be able to see that. There are numbers on it. I think we need to take this seriously and review the credit restrictions. We are not saying that the credit restrictions should disappear, but they must be reviewed in one way or another. If you look at credit restrictions together with housing savings and start-up loans, there will be mobility in the housing market. Those who want rental apartments should of course be able to get it. But the fact is that surveys show that seven out of ten people want to own their home. But it is not built so that seven out of ten can have their own accommodation. The reforms that the Minister is talking about are aimed at building more rental apartments in Sweden, and this has not been contradicted by the Minister. I therefore ask the same question as I asked at the outset: is it for ideological reasons that this government is not making any reforms to create more housing for owned residents, but is just focusing on rental rights?
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-110	Madam President, I would like The last is a purely incorrect description. It is not the case that we are only making reforms in the area of rental housing. We now also see that the construction of the housing market is actually at a level that is very far from what was achieved during eight years of bourgeois rule. It's about double the level. That is something that we should both think is a positive development rather than a negative development. I am also concerned that the Christian Democrats are unable to take responsibility for joint reforms. The first amortisation requirement was introduced with broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament. The Christian Democrats also supported this proposal. This affected about 50 per cent of the new borrowers and meant that you should not take too much risk in relation to the value of the dwelling you buy. The Christian Democrats should be able to take responsibility for a reform that they themselves were involved in pushing through. The second amortisation requirement, which means that you should not take too much risk in relation to your income, affects about 10% of the new borrowers. It is therefore a rather small group that is affected by this reform at all. To paint it as some kind of manslaughter blow is a superword that doesn't have a stronghold in reality. We will continue to work to create a better housing market. We will continue to work to ensure that more people who want to be able to choose rental apartments. We will also continue to work so that more people can buy their home, because we think it is important. The reforms that Larry Söder mentions, I am prepared to look further at and work on. But we will not anticipate the budgetary process. But I can see that if it were as simple as Larry Söder now shows it should perhaps have been carried out in the eight years that the Christian Democrats were responsible for housing policy. But it wasn't. Obviously, it may not have been as simple as it seems in opposition. One might ask a little point if the Christian Democrats are perhaps better in opposition than in the majority when it comes to housing policy.
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-115	Madam President, I would like Désirée Pethrus has asked me whether I intend to come up with proposals on how statistics on the extent of the oppression of honour in Sweden can be reported and how the government sees the early establishment of an activity similar to that of the UK F orced M inheritance U rit in Sweden. Furthermore, Mrs Pethrus has asked me when the government intends to decide on the future placement of the national competence team against honour violence and repression. I would like to thank Mrs Pethrus, and I share her commitment to these very urgent issues. Honor-related crimes constitute totally unacceptable violations of human rights and children's rights. In recent years, the government has therefore taken over 40 initiatives that are particularly relevant to combat this violence and oppression – a commitment that is also part of the government parties' agreement with the Center Party and the Liberals. Honour-related violence and oppression take many forms that are not captured in national statistics on crime, social services or school. As Désirée Pethrus points out, the National Board of Health and Welfare was not able to carry out a national survey in accordance with the Government's mandate in 2017– 2019, something I had previously regretted. For several years, the County Administrative Board of Östergötland has held a comprehensive national government mission in this area, including knowledge development. The agency is currently working on a survey of municipalities' knowledge of abducted persons in an honorary context. Another current effort is the introduction by the Politiska omsähallitus of a special mark for crimes with honorary motives in the agency's IT support for criminal investigations. In addition, the Gender Equality Agency has the Government's mission to carry out in-depth monitoring of gender equality policy objectives, including the objective of men's violence against women, which includes honour-related violence and repression. British Forced Marriage Unit, like the Norwegian team of competence against forced marriages, genital mutilation and negative social control, is an operational function of national authorities. They work with individual cases concerning persons who are in distress abroad or who are at risk of being taken abroad to be married away and so on. The closest Swedish equivalent of these functions is the Consular and Civil Division of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which, in close cooperation with social services in particular, handles matters where people living in Sweden have been in distress in an honorary context abroad. The government has permanently strengthened the unit's work for this target group. The activities here referred to as the national competence team do not work with individual matters and belong to the County Administrative Board of Östergötland County, which is a regional authority. However, the County Administrative Board has a national mission to combat honour-related violence and repression through support to other actors. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Agency for Health Care Analysis to evaluate the work of the County Administrative Board taking into account activities in a selection of comparable countries, such as the UK, Norway and the Netherlands. The aim is to provide the government with a basis for decisions on the establishment of a permanent national, cross-sectoral mission in the work against honour-related violence and repression. The Agency for Health and Care Analysis shall present the evaluation by 15 June 2020. In summary, the government is carrying out extensive work against honour-related violence and repression, but with the recognition that significant challenges remain. Among other things, the national assignment at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County has received a powerful economic reinforcement.
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-121	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. We certainly agree that this is a very serious and important issue in which we must do everything we can. That is why I have requested this interpellation debate today and asked three questions. Combating the oppression of honour is, as I see it, one of Sweden's most important gender equality issues right now. The problem is increasing; a survey at Örebro University on the major cities of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö shows that every sixth ninth grader lives under honorary oppression. A large proportion of them have also been subjected to violence. This requires active action from society – from the state. At the same time, the statistics on the spread of honour repression are inadequate. No one knows how widespread it is, which is serious if we are to prevent threats and violence in the name of honour. Very few municipalities have mapped the scope. As the Minister said, two years ago the National Board of Health and Welfare was commissioned to investigate the scope, and last spring it was announced that the survey could not be carried out. There is no possibility of continuously obtaining data on the scope of municipalities, regions and authorities, nor are there any secured measurement methods. Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Lindhagen answers to my interpellation that she regrets that the National Board of Health and Welfare has said that it is not possible to carry out the surveys. But does the Minister for Equality settle for that? Is it not time, as the Christian Democrats propose, to start to develop measurement methods to enable us to see the extent of honour violence and to act properly? The Minister says that Östergötland should map municipalities' knowledge of abducted children and persons in an honorary context. That is a good thing, but those statistics are not enough. We need broader information about the situation. So can the Minister give a concrete answer to the National Board of Health and Welfare – and to us here today – about how they can start producing statistics? What kind of new assignment could they have? If we are aware of the problems, we can act properly to prevent them. Madam President, I would like With regard to my question about the national competence team against honour-related violence and repression at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County, I think perhaps the Minister's answer is somewhat unclear. We in the Christian Democrats clearly indicated in our budget motion last autumn that we want to see the operation in Östergötland permanent. As it is now, their mission ends at the end of the year, i.e. at the end of 2020. We have a request, which is now being discussed in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, for permanent activity. The Moderates and the Swedish Democrats also proved to have a similar claim. My question in the interpellation was whether the Government believes that the operation in Östergötland should be permanent. The answer I get is that we are now developing a basis for permanentisation, but nothing is said about the location. Should the business be located in Östergötland? Can the Government today give an answer on the issue of placement?
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-128	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to thank Mrs Pethrus for raising these extremely important issues. I very much welcome that. With regard to statistics, I have for several years, even as a municipal politician during the last parliamentary term, focused on the fact that it is extremely important to have figures. We need surveys, and we need to know how the problem develops over time – just what the Member of Parliament raises. Is this increasing? Is it decreasing? Are we taking measures that lead to any results? I therefore fully share this view and, as I said earlier, I regret that the National Board of Health and Welfare could not provide us with more statistics on this. What I also want to say about statistics is – and this has been my focus for years – that we do not need statistics to know that we are going to act. We know that we have problems with honour-related violence and repression, and on the part of the government we will not sit and wait to get figures on this. I think that it is clear to everyone who has got something into this issue that we have great problems: children and women live under this oppression and are subjected to violence. Boys can also be affected, as well as LGBTQ people, and people with disabilities can be particularly vulnerable. These people do not have the power to decide over their own lives, and we can never accept that. I therefore fully agree with what the honourable Member said about this being one of our most important gender issues. It is also one of our most important freedom issues and one of our most important security issues. Statistics are important, and we need to continue working on them. That's a question we'll have to take with us. What the National Skills Team is doing right now, a survey of children being taken away, I think is extremely important. But certainly we also need a broader survey, and we need to know more about what it looks like in the municipalities. With regard to the National Skills Team, I understood that the question was when we should make decisions. I want to make it very clear that we're going to be permanent National Skills Team. I have also said this earlier here in the speaker's chair. There is no doubt about it. It is also clearly stated in the January agreement between the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals that this should happen. The national competence team is doing an extremely important job. They provide support to professionals and raise awareness of these issues. I have visited them in Östergötland and met employees on several occasions. It is extremely important that we have this work, and it will be permanent. What is happening right now is that the Swedish Agency for Health Care Analysis is conducting an evaluation to see how we can utilise the knowledge and experience that exists within the National Skills Team. After this evaluation has been submitted on 15 June, we will take decisions. We need this basis, and it will be delivered shortly. Then we will come back.
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-135	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your answer, although I still care a little. The government has said that what it wants with the Equality Agency is to prevent project-based and long-term. Today, some evidence is being produced to identify, for example, children who are being taken away, but how are we to prevent them? Are we doing the right thing? Is it decreasing? Do we have the right legal measures to stop this? I can't quite see that the Government is looking forward to that. As far as statistics are concerned, it sounds a little back-to-back to me that you haven't really started. How are we to ensure that the National Board of Health and Welfare receives the right instruments and gives them indications on how to proceed on this issue? When it comes to the National Skills Team, I still get worried because the Government here does not say that it is in Östergötland it should lie. You should make a decision, but what is the decision to make? That's my question. This evaluation is also somewhat unclear. It has not really been seen in the budget or elsewhere what evaluation it is and what concrete action it is. I do not understand, therefore, that I have received an answer as to whether it will be in Östergötland or whether that is what many people fear, namely that the money will be spent on the Equality Agency. That's where my concern lies. We have not yet been able to get answers; the Minister has not yet said that it is in Östergötland National competence team will be located. My third question was about a forced maritime unit according to the British model. In Norway, too, something similar has now been set in motion. Several studies say that we need to be much better at preventing the abduction of children, but also better at taking children home and helping those who have been taken out of the country for forced or child-marriage – it can of course be both children and young people. The British model works much wider. They work with taking in knowledge, and they have help phones, support phones and knowledge building. Here the minister says that we have the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and their consular unit that helps sometimes. That's not enough. We must take a much broader approach to the work. That is why for years now I have been fighting here in Parliament for a forced maritime unit like the British one. I visited it a few years ago, and it has a fantastically good business that I think can stand as a model. In addition, the British have received legislation in place that says that if you go home to parents and do not know where the child is, usually the girl, you can say: If you do not return the girl within a certain time, we will prosecute you, and you can get up to seven years in prison. It is a huge piece of legislation to really make something happen. I have talked about this with Morgan Johansson several times in this House. He says you're thinking and investigating, but there's nothing coming. Nor do I think that in this answer I can see that the government is on the move. We have spent 10 million under Noah at the Police Authority to start up this operation. We would like the government to now put money into starting a unit like this. How does the Minister view this?
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-145	Madam President, I would like In the evaluation assignment given to the Agency for Health Care Analysis, they should look specifically at, among other things, the activities carried out in the UK. That work is in progress, and that is also the right way to go. We need to look internationally. We need to look at the UK; Norway is also interesting, as is the Netherlands, which is specifically highlighted. What can we learn from other countries? Legislation is a little different in the UK. What knowledge can we bring from other countries based on the situation and conditions that exist here in Sweden? I think we always have a lot to gain from learning from others. Therefore, I think it feels very positive that in their evaluation mission, which is now in full swing, you have the specific task to look at the UK, how they work with F orced M heritage U rit and what we can learn from it. There the work is already under way, and it will come back shortly. I am really looking forward to seeing what the authority can provide us with on how to think on these issues. I am very open to learning from the United Kingdom, not least. When it comes to children taken abroad, we will, according to plan, come to Parliament with a bill. There will be this evaluation, which has just looked at how we can make it more difficult for families who expel children to subject them, for example, to forced marriages to take children out of the country at all. Preventing the children from being taken out at all is the most important thing we can do. It is much harder to work back the children once it has happened. We also need to do that work. There we have strengthened the resources for the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Consular Unit, precisely to ensure that we can really work with individual cases and get the children back to Sweden again. The most important thing, however, is that they are not taken out at all. The investigation has produced proposals for a criminally sanctioned exit ban and the possibility to block passports or not issue passports at all. I think this is extremely important in order to take steps forward to protect these children to a much greater extent. It is terrible to hear the stories that exist. It has not been long since it was written in the newspapers about cases both where they have managed to get back to Sweden again and also where it has not happened, for example girls who have been married away and who are now sitting with children in another country far from here. I think there are many of us involved in this. No child should ever be exposed to such a thing. We really need to do more to ensure that children are not taken away at all, but also, of course, to provide support for working the children back home to Sweden again.
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-151	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. However, I still have not received an answer as to whether the National Skills Team will be placed in Östergötland, which keeps me worried. We will have to continue the discussion in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and see if we can push the matter forward there. We'll get back to that. If this investigation comes this summer, I hope that after that the Minister will start a work that will give us something similar to the British F orced M arriage U rit. I hope that the Minister would also like to make a visit there. It is very enlightening and gives a very good picture of how to work on the broad, both with the legislation and with the support activities so that there is concrete help for the young people, usually girls, who need it. As far as Britti is concerned, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and how they work are now able to secure agreements with several countries. You cannot act with a police authority in another country without having an agreement with that country. The British Ministry for Foreign Affairs has succeeded in that. They work with the Ministry of the Interior and the police department. I think it should not only be the Ministry for Foreign Affairs working on this as it is today, but the Ministry for Foreign Affairs must also work with the Police Department in this work. I am sure that the government has a good will to prevent honour-related violence and repression, and I think that the measures that are being taken are excellent. Unfortunately, however, I have not been satisfied with the answers today. The state has a duty to protect all its citizens, and that applies to everyone regardless of their background. There shouldn't be, I mean, any place for this honorary culture that makes someone feel scared and threatened. There are a great many young people and children, especially girls, who feel this insecurity in our society. That is unacceptable. I hope we will see more measures.
i-92f75a3f09ca5e00-157	Madam President, I would like We will come back with more measures. No child in Sweden should have to grow up and feel fear. No child should have to sit in one of our schools before summer vacation and think: Will I come back after summer vacation? If we have children taken abroad, the municipalities must keep an eye on it. They must act, and they must contact the State Department. We will do what we can to get these children back, and we need to do more about it. We need to tighten up the legislation and do more to ensure that those who have been taken abroad also come back again. I fully share this view and really look forward to getting more knowledge from this evaluation about Forced Marriage Unit in the UK and what we can learn from them. I think it is positive that the Member of Parliament has visited the UK. I think I would also find that extremely valuable. When it comes to the competence team, which is doing an incredibly important job, I think it is important to take responsibility and make the evaluation that is being done right now, not least to see the knowledge and experience that the competence team has. It is very competent people who work with these issues and who provide support to professionals and in different ways every day strengthen Sweden's competence around our municipalities in terms of how to provide support to vulnerable people and how to combat this problem. It is important that we really do this evaluation, look at the business and see what we can learn from the time that has passed. Then we will decide on the permanentisation of the competence team. We will come back to that question. I have great confidence in the fact that we are going to land it in a good way. We are united, I feel, across party boundaries on this issue. Many parties in the Riksdag think this is important, and it is a great strength. But it is also a matter of delivering.
