i-dda6964c8a8cff07-9	Madam President, I would like David Josefsson has asked me three questions regarding the closures of Ringhals 1 and 2. The first question concerns what measures I intend to take if future CO2 emissions are increasing in Sweden and Europe as a result of the closure of Ringhals 1 and 2. The second question concerns what measures I intend to take if the power capacity and stability of the electricity grids in western and south-west Sweden deteriorate as a result of the closure. Finally, the third question concerns the way in which, in my area of responsibility, I will follow the consequences that the closures of Ringhals 1 and 2 may have for industry and growth in western and south-west Sweden. J ag would like to begin by emphasising that regarding the closures of Ringhals 1 and 2, I shall not have any comments on the market assessment of the Vattenfall Group as Minister of Energy. The closures are a decision made by Vattenfall's board many years ago. On the first issue, Sweden set a record in electricity exports in 2019. We exported 25.8 terawatt hours of electricity, more than ever before. Madam President, I would like This represents three quarters of Denmark's total electricity consumption. In addition, there is now a substantial expansion of renewable electricity production. I am delighted! The Swedish Energy Agency's forecasts also say that Sweden's electricity surplus will continue to increase. Sweden thus contributes more fossil-free electricity, and thus reduced carbon dioxide emissions, than ever before. Sweden's large electricity surplus, together with measures to strengthen the electricity grid, provides us with good conditions to maintain a robust electricity supply, which is a fundamental prerequisite for a modern and well-functioning society. As regards the second issue of power capacity and network capacity in western Sweden, the risk of power shortage in Sweden is very low. This is clear from the evaluation carried out by the Swedish Power Network in the framework of the Authority's long-term market analysis. When it comes to network stability, it is also the Swedish power grid as the responsible authority that determines which support services are needed. Swedish power networks are working with new and updated requirements for frequency-related support services to ensure continued good network stability. As far as the last question is concerned, the government and the relevant authorities are continuously following developments in the electricity market. Energy policy should already contribute to competitiveness, and Swedish industry currently has the lowest prices among EU Member States.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-15	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The Parliament had a vote yesterday on Ringhal's future. I should like to begin by stating that the result of the vote is still highly topical, because this debate is not about whether Ringhals 1 and 2 should remain operational, but about what measures the Government intends to take to reduce the consequences of the closures of the two Ringhals reactors, Madam President. It has consequences for our climate in terms of increased CO2 emissions and consequences for the country that I come from in terms of power capacity and stability on the electricity grids when Ringhals in its form of system service disappears. I do not think anyone has been able to escape the debate on the global challenges of reducing CO2 emissions. Society is now changing from fossil dependence to fossil-free. The transport sector is electrified and large parts of the heavy process industry in Sweden are working hard to reduce their climate footprint, but at the same time it means an increased electricity demand. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise believes that the need will increase by at least 60 per cent by 2045. The expansion of renewable energy sources is a good thing. But that is not enough, because under Swedish conditions renewable energy in the form of solar and wind energy cannot provide the electricity grids with sufficiently stable power supply. Nor is the expansion taking place at such a pace that we can afford to increase our consumption and, at the same time, to shut down nuclear power, Madam President, not without making ourselves dependent on fossil energy sources from our neighbours. The equation just doesn't add up. I note that the Government does not even mention, let alone responds to the calculations made by the Institute of Economic Development on the so-called cancellation mechanism of the EU ETS. These calculations are the basis for my first question. The cancellation mechanism within the EU ETS is quite technical, but briefly it can be said that when Sweden increases its exports of fossil-free energy fossil energy is squeezed away in our neighbouring countries. Then more emission rights can be cancelled and thus emissions can be reduced and vice versa: When Swedish net exports decrease with the closure of Swedish nuclear power, more allowances in the EU will be used and fewer allowances cancelled, i.e. emissions will not be reduced. I therefore come back to my question: what action does the Government intend to take to prevent the scenario that the Institute of Economic Affairs warns against from arising? Another consequence that must be met is the one that has arisen in Skåne. There, due to lack of impact, companies have found it difficult to establish or expand their activities. That is why the Government itself presented a package of measures to address these problems last October, Madam President. One of the measures was to re-use Heleneholmsverket, which is a fossil combined heat and power plant in Malmö. Energy supply experts warned in a debate article in Dagens Industri last year for which the consequences will be in Västra Götaland, Halland and Skåne of the closures of Ringhals 1 and 2, with a total effect of 1,765 megawatts, if Heleneholmsverket with its 130 megawatts is necessary to secure the effect in Skåne. I wonder: what measures is the Government prepared to take so that we do not have the same problems with the power supply in Western Sweden as well? The questions in my interpellation both I and, I believe, large parts of the electorate want answers to.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-23	Madam President, I would like There were many nice and perhaps some technical words from David Josefsson. I'll make it very simple. What should I do to ensure that what is painted as a possible scenario in Konjunkturinstitutet's report does not become a reality? What should I do to ensure that we do not export less electricity and thus increase CO2 emissions in Europe? The answer is simple: I will ensure that Sweden continues to increase electricity exports. We shall have good market conditions so that more people invest in Swedish energy production, not fewer. Now the reality is that – and then I'm not talking about any advanced future scenarios – that we have the largest green electricity export ever in Sweden's history. Please look back! We have had many years, many of them under moderate governments, when we were in deficit and had to import, even though we then had more reactors in operation. Now the situation is reversed. We export more green electricity. And the forecasts, David Josefsson, point to no decrease; they point to a continued increase. I may find the moderate interest in obsolete nuclear power a little strange. I believe that I and David Josefsson agree that nuclear power has and will have an important role to play in the Swedish energy system for many years to come. However, I do not believe that obsolete nuclear power that does not meet modern safety requirements and with rust in the reactor's bottom plate has any role to play in the Swedish energy system. It is a natural development that old and outdated technology is phased out and new technology is phased in. This applies not only to nuclear energy but also to renewable energy. There are lots of wind turbines torn down in Sweden and Europe, but do I get interpellations from moderate and Swedish-democratic MPs who wonder how we can compensate for that electricity and that export to Europe? No, I must not, because the moderate and Swedish-democratic interest in nuclear energy is not about the climate but about a fixation on nuclear power production. The second question concerns capacity. It's the same thing there. We will take the necessary steps to ensure that we have a more robust electricity system in the future. For this reason, Swedish power grids are doubling their investments in the electricity grid compared to the beginning of this century, 20 years ago, and therefore the next ten years will be built twice as many air lines as they have been made in the last 30 years. We do this so that the large Swedish electricity surplus can benefit Swedish consumers and the Swedish business community. This large surplus also means that we have a record low electricity price. In no other country in Europe does the industry have an equally competitive electricity price. If we start to poke into this and destroy the functioning of the market by subsidising one or the other energy source, the risk is that we will have fewer investments, less electricity and more CO2 emissions.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-32	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his answer, although I am a little discouraged by the fact that he is trying to question my ambition that CO2 emissions should not increase. I am convinced that the Minister for Energy does not want CO2 emissions to increase either. As I said, this debate is not about the goods or non-goods of the Ringhal reactors. There is much to be said here, including about the technical status that the Minister for Energy has just called out-of-date technology but, as Vattenfall notes in a leaked internal report, with low investments, can handle both 50 and 60 years of operation. This question, however, was settled yesterday by the Riksdag by a margin of one vote. What remains to be discussed is the non-existence of the consequences. The industry in western and south-west Sweden depends on a permanent electricity supply, whether it is Volvo's factories on Hisingen, the petrochemical cluster on the Bohus coast or the manufacturing industry in the Gnosjö area. I still wonder what measures the Government is prepared to take to mitigate the consequences of the closure of Ringhals 1 and 2 risk having for industry and population in Gothenburg, western Småland, Halland, Bohuslän, Skaraborg and perhaps even Närke. It is good that the core network is being expanded, but there is also a need for a system service in the core network that sustains power stability. Only the Gnosjö region has a turnover of approximately SEK 30 billion and creates many hundred jobs. The vehicle cluster in Gothenburg is the world leader in electrification of vehicles, but what are the consequences for an electrified vehicle fleet and public transport if the power balance is not in the grid? It is an important issue, even though the Minister for Energy is trying to dribble it off because it is technically advanced words. What measures is the Government prepared to take to avoid the same situation in West Sweden as in Skåne? Will the Government in a few years' time present a crisis package also for West Sweden like the one in Skåne, where Stenungsund's power plant, also a fossil-dependent work, will again become an important cornerstone for securing the effect in West Sweden? While the European Parliament is proclaiming climate emergency, the Institute for Economic Development warns that the closure of Ringhals 1 and 2 risks increasing CO2 emissions by up to 8 million tonnes as fewer allowances will be cancelled. One can say that this is a technical issue that we do not need to discuss here, but I think it is an important issue.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-42	Madam President, I would like It will be a little strange to hear David Josefsson first get upset that I question his genuine climate interest and then talk about the European Parliament's climate emergency while I know that David Josefsson has put a proposal on Parliament's table that the petrol tax should be reduced by 1 krona so that more people can drive fossil-powered cars. Just when we are facing the big breakthrough of electric drive, David Josefsson wants to make it more difficult for electric cars and make it cheaper to drive fossils. In the joint initiative presented to Skåne and the Stockholm region, every kilowatt-hour effect is added to fossil-free. David Josefsson twice called Heleneholm's work fossil-fired – not in that initiative; it will be fired with biogas. Therefore, did not come and claim that there would be a fossil component there. David Josefsson builds on the little, let's call it, the fantasy castle. He believes that there will be certain consequences of Ringhals' closure and wants to call me to account as to what to do about the imagined consequences. What does the Swedish power grid say the consequences will be? What does the energy industry say the consequences will be? What does the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate say the consequences will be? Well, Sweden will continue to increase its electricity surplus. Thus, electricity exports of green electricity will increase, not decrease. What should I do about the consequences of increased electricity exports? Nothing. I shall be pleased that Sweden is pushing off fossil-fired electricity. Let us be aware that this is a rather short horizon, because the rest of Europe is making the same transition as Sweden. There is no large fossil electricity to import from Denmark. There will soon be only wind power. There are no major fossil sources to import electricity from Norway. Most of the electricity we import the few days a year we need comes from Norwegian hydropower, in principle without climate impact. So to the stability of the grid. Recently, the IEA, the International Energy Council, has appointed the Swedish electricity network as the most stable electricity network in the world. But we're not happy with that. We tenfold the expansion of the electricity grid compared to ten years ago. We double the number of overhead pipes over the next few years compared to how many have been built over the last 30 years. We have probably not had such a large expansion of the electricity grid since electrification had its impact in Sweden. We have a growing electricity surplus and a strong expansion rate in the electricity grid. Like David Josefsson, we do this in a positive way because we have two large electrifications to do. We will electrify the industry and the automotive sector. This requires fixed market conditions so that the market players dare to invest in Sweden. I can make David Josefsson happy that they do. Over the last three years, SEK 80 billion has been invested in the Swedish energy sector.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-50	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer, even if it does not make me much wiser. What the Government paints out as my air castle is thus the Conjunkturinstitutet's assessment of the risks of the cancellation mechanism. The increase in net exports despite the closure of Ringhals 2 is not the same as the fact that net exports are at the same level as if the reactor were in operation. It's the same with the power balance. The Government says that there will be no power shortage in Sweden despite the fact that the effect will be reduced by a total of 1,765 megawatts when Ringhals 1 and 2 are shut down. At the same time, as was the case with the Government, the industry and the transport sector are electrified to become less dependent on fossil energy. The Government will therefore not take any measures to ensure any power deficiencies in Västra Götaland, even though assessors warn against this. That worries me, Madam President. I am also concerned about the global climate challenges we face, but here the government sifts mosquitoes and swallows camels. While giving premiums to those who buy electric bicycles and contribute to people with climate anxiety, one of the most clean and stable energy sources we have here in Sweden is shut down. I am also concerned about the impact on the industry in Gothenburg and in western and south-west Sweden in the event of a lack of power. Stefan Löfven as Federal Chairman of IF Metall was interviewed by Svenska Dagbladet on the future of nuclear power in February 2009. At that time he noted the important thing was the supply of electricity, and then he added that it had to be ensured that we in Sweden have a surplus of profits. I am inclined to agree, Madam President. With this, I would like to thank you for a good debate.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-59	Madam President, I would like Thank you, David Josefsson, not least for sharing my view and Stefan Lövven's view of energy policy and the importance of having a continued surplus of Swedish energy! I just want to correct David Josefsson on one point. I certainly do not condemn the KI report. It is certainly true that reducing our electricity exports could lead to more emissions in Europe. I think we can agree on this, but the reality is the opposite: exports are not decreasing, they are increasing. After all, the same analogy in the KI report must mean that we are reducing emissions in Europe, something that both I and David Josefsson can be pleased about. Although David Josefsson has said twice that the debate is not about Ringhals, he still comes back to the same box: It could be possible to push Ringhals further, and it does not matter that Finnish, German and Swedish owners say that it is not profitable. A report has been dug up to show that the Moderates are profitable. It does not matter that the Radiation Safety Authority says that Ringhals does not live up to modern safety requirements and would not be allowed to be driven further because there is rust in the reactor plate containment because of the lack of modern silos and independent hardening cooling. It doesn't matter – you can push them on anyway. I say the same thing as I said at the beginning to David Josefsson: please protect nuclear power! Please talk well about nuclear power, but do it about modern nuclear power, which lives up to safety requirements and does not have rust damage! Why should we maintain rust in end-of-life nuclear power when there is modern nuclear power that lives up to safety requirements? If nuclear power is competitive, can it not be possible to build new nuclear power?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-63	Madam President, I would like Gudrun Brunegård has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that more new arrivals are regarded as eligible for vocational training. The government wants more new arrivals to study vocational training leading to work. In 2017, the Government issued a new regulation on the establishment of certain newly arrived immigrants, which entered into force on 1 January 2018. The Regulation introduced a training obligation for newcomers. The education obligation means that all new arrivals who take part in the establishment of the Employment Service and who are deemed to be in need of education in order to be able to get to work can be assigned to apply for and take part of education. The regulation has meant an increased focus on regular education in Komvux for new arrivals and on combining SFI with other courses. In connection with the introduction of this regulation, the Government commissioned the National Board of Education to develop, among other things, a support material that will facilitate the municipalities to combine SFI with other parts of Komvux with an education adapted for new arrivals. The study Strengthened quality and equivalence in Komvux for students with Swedish as a second language, Kliva, has proposed how it can be ensured that municipalities offer personalised education for newcomers who are subject to the education obligation. These proposals are currently being prepared by the Government Office. Since 2016, the Government has set aside funds for initiatives that combine vocational education and training with, among other things, SFI in order to target educational efforts specifically to those who need vocational training in order to be able to enter the labour market and who at the same time need to strengthen their knowledge of Swedish. As announced by the Government in the budget proposal for 2020, the Government intends to implement changes in the professional career so as to increase the remuneration of the training places in regional vocational adult education sought in combination with the SFI. It is my view and the Government's view that, in the long term, investment in vocational adult education and training contributes to better conditions for meeting the skills supply of the labour market, while strengthening integration. Developing vocational adult education and training is therefore a continuous work to which I and the government attach great importance. The government is actively working with improvements in this area through these efforts.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-68	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. It is well established that the ability of the school and education to help students through the education system and on to study and work and in the long term to self-sufficiency is the strongest protection factor against both ill health and exclusion. At the same time, we have a major challenge today to provide the welfare sector, public access, industry and service industries with skilled labour to keep the work going. Many believe that successful integration of new arrivals is the key to the huge recruitment needs of the Swedish labour market. In 2018, education obligations for new arrivals were introduced. Those who are not deemed to be matchable to the labour market must attend training during the period of the establishment programme. This idea is good, but unfortunately the results so far have not impressed. In April last year, 13 000 people were subject to the education obligation, but only 1 200 people, i.e. less than a tenth, went to Komvux at basic level. The number of vocational SFIs mentioned by the Minister was only 47. The Swedish National Agency for Education's report on barriers for individuals with a lack of knowledge of the Swedish language to participate in education in municipal adult education highlights, among other things, the existence of a number of organisational barriers and a lack of individualization, but also language requirements for new arrivals to continue in their education. It is estimated that a significantly higher number could be envisaged for such training. The Swedish School Inspectorate also makes the assessment that many municipalities could offer more SFI students the opportunity to combine SFI with courses at basic and upper secondary level in Komvux. Madam President, I would like The report thus shows that there are formal language requirements for vocational training for SFI students, although there is no such legal support. The eligibility requirement is that you have the opportunity to assimilate the training. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education, the formal language requirements that prevent people from attending vocational education and training combined with SFI are not based on the person's ability to take in education. This risks hindering the integration process as the person is not offered vocational training combined with Swedish courses. In this way, the number of children born abroad in adult education is reduced, and those born abroad who actually go have a relatively high educational background, often higher than those born in the same education. The expectations of language skills should of course be high, but it is also not good if the threshold is so high that people do not get into vocational education and training. It should be possible to combine language training with job training. Our aim must be to provide each individual newcomer with an individual assessment of the prerequisites for training in Komvux and other vocational training. The aim must be to enable as many people as possible to learn and get a job.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-74	Madam President, I would like That's the purpose, Gudrun Brunegård. We have in Sweden a large group of companies, authorities, municipalities and regions that scream for properly trained labour. There is a huge need for nurses, nurses and drivers, that is to say in principle all the professions that we are training in municipal adult education to such an extent today. There is a sharp shortage of labour. At the same time, we have a large group of people who are outside the labour market and are well away from taking these jobs. The way to solve both of these problems at the same time is, of course, through an ever-improved and ever-more adapted adult education. The government has made great efforts to strengthen adult education, but also to ensure that adult education can meet these two needs at the same time. The budget bill that was put on Parliament's table in December and adopted by Parliament clearly states that more will be done, for example, on what Gudrun Brunegård is now calling for, i.e. the possibility of combining sfi with adult education. We will work on further strengthening this important axis, this important bridge between the people who want to be integrated and who will be integrated into Swedish society and the labour market where they are so much awaited. We will do this through investments in many places, investments in places in the right fields of work, but also investments that will enable those who will apply for these courses to actually manage the training. If you take a person to an education where there are high demands on Swedish and that person then does not meet these demands, it is a waste of people's dreams and hopes but also with crass money. We will therefore continue to work to strengthen opportunities so that the existing training places can be taken. We will strengthen the element of Swedish education both before and during adult education. We will also strengthen opportunities to combine adult education with SFI. It is really good education policy, and that is the policy that lies in the government's budget.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-79	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Education for this. This is what this interpellation really is about, i.e.: How effective are we in Swedish adult education and in the school system to bridge this and to give education in Swedish in such a way that you don't get trapped too long in a classroom but also get the opportunity to train the language in a work situation and learn professional Swedish as well? In Skolverket's report on good examples of SFI combined with vocational education and training, there are a number of good examples. It was special one that I attached myself to. It says: For example, if the students in the building education are to build a mold, the language teacher is involved in the workshop and supports the students in their communication and language development. During the course of the work, the students tell us what they are doing and why. They also document the work in writing and with photos every day, even during practice. The language teacher captures new technical terms and expressions that students need to immerse themselves in in order for them to understand the entire work process. A task for the second language teacher is also to support the professional teachers in putting into practice certain concepts that students find difficult to understand. There is a constant dialogue between students and teachers that can be likened to an ongoing development discussion. The students always have a clear picture of where they are learning. We are not just starting from a curriculum, but everything is personalised. We take into account what knowledge and experience each brought from the start and what they need to complete the training. The method of assessment is adapted to the pupils' language level, so that language does not prevent them from showing what they can. Also, teachers do not use any ready-made teaching materials, but show them physically and write up some new words on a whiteboard. The students photograph the painting and then use the words when they report today's work. I think this is absolutely fantastic. I wonder if the Minister for Education sees reason to have the National Agency for Education analyse cost-effectiveness, for example, in different models of individualisation to find such aids so that you can perhaps go further in the instructions on appropriate methods of personalisation and help the newcomer to work as soon as possible and combine vocational training with language training in such a constructive and creative way.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-86	Madam President, I would like Swedish adult education, not least vocational education for adults and Swedish education for immigrants, which we today call SFI, has increased considerably in recent years. This has happened for a very clear reason, namely that we have a large group of new arrivals who came here in 2015 and the years before and who need training to enter the Swedish labour market. Sometimes in the Swedish debate it is like we split into two camps: one that says that it is easy to arrange integration and one that says that it is not possible. We who live in ordinary life know that it is possible but that it costs money and effort and that it also costs to develop methods that work. It also costs, above all, in terms of the availability of trained and qualified teachers, who are the most important staff group to ensure that there is good vocational training for adults who meet all the needs I have outlined. According to the January agreement we have concluded with the Centre Party and the Liberals, the government is working intensively on these issues. I would like to mention the intensive year that people work a lot with at the Ministry of Labour but where we at the Ministry of Education are happy to contribute. We are also working on a quality boost on SFI, where the investigation that I mentioned just now, Kliva, has been given a special task to look at the quality of SFI. We also work with more hours in SFI. There too, Kliva has both suggestions and assignments. In the budget proposal put on the table by the Government, together with the Centre Party and the Liberals, we have announced that we will ensure that we strengthen the possibilities for funding for municipalities that organise vocational training for adults, but also that we will strengthen the opportunities to combine SFI with vocational training. All of this is what we work with. What Gudrun Brunegård read out, which I also thought sounded very nice, is an example of how these efforts are put into practice. It is easy to stand in the speaker's chair and call for more measures and complaints about municipalities which, as is suggested, place too high demands on the Swedish language. But it is also very important to remember that the people who are going to undergo adult education need good Swedish to get through the education and must of course have received it before the education. The municipal executives who have the task of ensuring that there are places but also that those who are admitted to the places have good conditions do a very difficult job. I find it incredibly difficult to believe that any municipal executive would exclude people from education by imposing too high demands on the Swedish language. Madam President, I would like I note that the government is doing a lot in the area that Gudrun Brunegård is asking about. The reason we do a lot of things is because a lot is needed. And we will continue to do even more to strengthen the quantity, but not least to strengthen the quality of these very important training courses.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-93	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Education for this. We share the ambition of the individuals who have come to our country, that they should feel as soon as possible that they are part of our country and that they also contribute to our country's prosperity and self-sufficiency, which strengthens self-esteem and ties with the country where they live. At the same time, we also need to provide our labour market with competent and qualified staff. In the past, we were also concerned with the protection factor against problems later in life that education provides. This is a situation which also includes young people who are not of adult age or old enough for vocational training. I had a long conversation yesterday with a school leader with long experience as a teacher in Swedish as a second language at a primary school in one of the country's vulnerable areas. I was then made aware of how the regulations complicate the situation for new arrivals who long to get into and contribute to society. What was said was the problem that a Swedish student or a student who has been longer than four years in Sweden and has not passed grades on any subject may enter the profession introduction while a student who has been shorter in Sweden, on the other hand, is locked in the language introduction, even if they otherwise have exactly equivalent conditions. This risks locking up these students for such a long time that they do not have the opportunity to enter a professional programme. I would appreciate it if, in the course of further work, the Minister were to work with that group as well and look at whether it is possible to make it easier for them to get over to professional programmes.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-96	Madam President, I would like The government is a feminist government, and in a feminist government's mission is to ensure that our education systems and our labour market are open and accessible to both men and women. But it is also to ensure that we place high demands on both men and women. Given Gudrun Brunegård's clear commitment to vocational education and training for adults and for SFI education, I hope that the Christian Democrats will stop making proposals on childcare money in the future. It is a needy rebaptized custody allowance, which we know leads to foreign-born women being locked into the home rather than in the various forms of education that Gudrun Brunegård is concerned about people being locked into. The government will continue to work towards vocational training for adults who are of high quality, who are open and accessible and who meet the needs of those who need education and training to support themselves. It will also meet the needs of our employers in terms of skills provision. We will do so in such a way that both men and women are met with high and loving expectations of participation in Swedish working life. Thank you, Gudrun Brunegård, for the interpellatione n! It is about a very important area that we will be working very hard on in the future.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-99	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take in order to increase the quality and pass-through of the upper secondary school's professional programme and how I and the government will act in concrete terms to further strengthen cooperation between upper secondary school and industry and employers. Roger Haddad has also asked me what concrete measures I and the government are planning for students who come in as unauthorized to upper secondary school also to receive an education. I would like to begin by pointing out that I share the concern that the proportion of students who graduate from a vocational programme in upper secondary school is slightly decreasing with last year, after increasing since 2014. However, it is difficult to state on the basis of statistics for a single year how serious this is, but I and the government will of course follow developments closely. The government's goal is for all young people to start and complete upper secondary education. Completed upper secondary education is crucial for young people's employment opportunities and contributes to the livelihood of working life skills. The government is making many efforts to contribute to more pupils becoming eligible for the national programmes of upper secondary school, such as the initiative Collaboration for the best school, the reading-write-count guarantee and state grants for homework help and equivalent school, to name a few. A number of amendments to the Education Act have also been implemented with a view to more young people starting and completing upper secondary education. These include, for example, better support in all forms of schooling and improved structure and quality within the introduction programmes, including a right to a minimum guaranteed period of teaching. The changes also imply a clearer responsibility to follow up absenteeism and that all pupils in upper secondary school and upper secondary school should be entitled to a mentor. Significant financial resources have also been allocated to the development of the introduction programmes. In order to strengthen qualifications in vocational programmes, measures have also been taken to improve the skills of professional teachers with, for example, qualification training. The School of Education organises a series of development efforts for vocational programmes, such as mentor training and efforts to improve workplace learning, the APL. These actions also help to strengthen vocational training qualifications in the introduction programmes. APL is an important part of all vocational training. Among other things, it gives students the opportunity to start building their own networks with future potential employers. Since 2018, the target group for the state grant for upper secondary apprenticeships has widened to include apprenticeship-like training in the introduction programmes. The Swedish National Agency for Education has also, on behalf of the Government, developed vocational training programmes, known as vocational packages, which can be used in the introduction programme of upper secondary school and in municipal adult education. Professional packages can serve as build-up programmes that can lead to jobs and gradually lead to a degree. The Swedish National Agency for Education, together with experts from various industries, has developed some sixty national professional packages. A prerequisite for high-quality vocational training is good cooperation between school and working life. For this reason, there have been state grants to develop professional colleges and similar collaborative models. The Government, together with the social partners and industries in the labour market, has supported the professional team and World s kills Sweden as part of promoting more places for workplace learning and an increased interest in vocational education and training. The government will continue to work to ensure that all pupils are eligible for upper secondary school's national programmes and that more young people can complete their upper secondary education.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-106	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer to my interpellation about the flow of upper secondary vocational education, Minister of Education Anna Ekström! The reason why we from the Liberals want to draw attention to these issues is that over the past 10 – 15 years we have actively raised the quality and throughput of upper secondary schools. Not least, we have stressed the importance of vocational programmes and training, including apprenticeships. The background to this is that we in Sweden have had a long period of time when many students not only come from primary school to upper secondary school and are unauthorized, thus not having qualified for the national educations, but also unable to pass upper secondary education. Today, upper secondary education can be considered a minimum requirement for obtaining employment or moving on to higher education. For many years, there has also been criticism from the industry, both from public employers and from the private sector, that the young people who have attended vocational programmes or in the old upper secondary school have not been prepared for working life, Madam President. During the time when the People's Party was in charge of the Ministry of Education, we carried out a major secondary school reform in which we tightened up the requirements to get into the vocational programmes and the preparatory programmes, as well as increased the practical aspects and vocational courses of the vocational programmes. We did this in close cooperation with the business community. It has been gratifying to see that during these years we have started to reverse the ship in the sense that the search pressure has increased. In all vocational programmes, the number of applicants has increased, and in the most recent survey there were 9 per cent more first-time applicants for vocational education and training. Even the National Agency for Education said a year ago, Madam President, that there has now been a trend break with regard to upper secondary vocational education. We welcome this from the Liberals. Looking at a number of labour market forecasts and studies on skills supply and demand for skills, it is clear that what is particularly requested by the business sector is precisely upper secondary vocational training. It is this important competence that entrepreneurs are asking for in order for them to meet their orders. This also applies to health care, in order to cope with staffing in health care and, not least, care for the elderly. In the figures since the 2011 upper secondary school reform – and the first hill, which came out in 2014, just as the Government said – we see that it is going in the wrong direction, albeit marginally, and that in 2019 fewer left the upper secondary vocational programmes with a full and approved vocational qualification. I would nevertheless say that I am concerned and concerned, Madam President. When these figures are broken down into the various national programmes – not least in the case of large, comprehensive training courses such as health care, vehicles and transport, to take a few examples – the number is 4 percentage points. In terms of the number of pupils and young people, this is an enormous number. This means that there are very many young people who after three years end the national programme of upper secondary school without a vocational degree, which means that there is a great risk of mental illness, exclusion, unemployment and that you do not go further. This is where I want to know what the government intends to do about it.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-113	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad says he's worried about this year's numbers. My answer to that is that I am concerned about the underlying, long-standing trends we have that too many students do not pass upper secondary education and about the problems that this poses for young people themselves as well as for the supply of skills. But there are very big shifts in the marginal decline over a year– it's not this number that keeps me awake at night. The concern I feel about our overall ability to ensure that all young people both enter upper secondary school and pass upper secondary school has led to a wide range of measures. Roger Haddad made a history statement and mentioned the work done in developing a new high school reform almost ten years ago. I can testify by saying that this government and the previous government have put a considerable effort into adjusting and correcting, together with the social partners, the beauty spots that existed in that reform. We have strengthened the right to teaching hours in the introductory programmes, and we have invested a lot of resources in support of the introductory programmes in upper secondary school. We have invested in Collaboration for the best school, a large programme to ensure that principals together with the Swedish National Agency for Education and with the help of the Swedish School Inspectorate get really good targeted support in order to get their business in good order. We have introduced a read-write-count guarantee. We work with efforts to strengthen homework help. We also have large state grants to ensure that children and pupils learn a lot in comprehensive school. Roger Haddad and I agree that good results in primary school are the best guarantee of building good results in upper secondary school. I can also – this little between us, Roger Haddad – recall our shared joy at the increased results in the Swedish PISA surveys. Here we have actually managed to maintain a policy that helps to ensure that teachers and students are able to ensure that the results are raised. That, Roger Haddad, is probably the best we can do for high school. But not only that – we have also ensured that every student attending upper secondary school should have the right to a mentor. I can admit that I considered both once and twice before going to Parliament with this proposal. This was due to the fact that a large evaluation showed that a very large proportion of those students who didn't finish upper secondary school – who didn't finish with full grades – were in fact only missing a few small points. It could be about a high school job or some subject. I felt that a mentor, who helps the student to keep track of what it needs to do to catch up and go out with full grades, would have been very good to have. Not least, we have invested a lot in APL – the workplace-based learning, which is the backbone of the professional programmes – with solid and good training for supervisors and strengthened efforts for different forms of apprenticeship programmes also on the introduction programmes. Yes, Roger Haddad, we do a lot. We will certainly have to do much more, and I look forward to good cooperation with Roger Haddad and his party friends to ensure that we can jointly strengthen upper secondary school and, not least, professional programmes.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-123	Madam President, I would like Many of the changes that have perhaps been the reason why we have succeeded better in upper secondary school have been opposed by the Social Democrats. They have been against the 2011 reform of upper secondary school, which in fact has now led to more people passing vocational training in upper secondary school. Compared to 2011 and 2012, more people graduate from upper secondary vocational education with full grades and can actually be employed. The answer is not the classic Social Democratic policy of re-theorizing high school, that everyone should go as long and that everyone should study in order to become university qualified. That is not the answer for these young people. On the contrary, and independently of Anna Ekström's and Social Democrats' high school policy. You have not made any proposal beyond what we have done in the case of upper secondary school, and then you, Anna Ekström, have been directly responsible for upper secondary school since 2016. You want to turn the clock back. Let's say, now it's turning around. It's going better now. More people are applying for the professional programmes. There are more who not only enter the upper secondary school's vocational programme – as they did during your time, Anna Ekström – but also leave the upper secondary school's vocational programme with a final degree. Through apprentices and vocational training, upper secondary education has come closer to the industry, but there are still criticisms here too. Regrettably, there have been worsening in recent years in the area of mentoring and apprenticeship support, where we believe that one needs to take a look if one is serious about not only 10-12% going to an apprenticeship but that it should actually be another option. After all, the great child of mourning in upper secondary school is the high school's introduction programme for the category of young people that I am also trying to highlight, Madam President, namely the young people who come in without competence to the national programmes. It has been experimented – and it continues to be experimented – with language introduction, preparatory course and so on. From the Liberals, we have said about vocational education and training – what is termed a professional package – that you can have two-year professional programmes nationally, but the introductory courses must be rigged even more so that students can read them and then get directly out to work without having to read there for one, two, three or four years and then study three years on a national programme and then possibly end up in a workplace or adult education. It's not socio-economically justifiable-- it's correct. It is the mission of primary school that Liberals' school policy has been focused on. Last summer, 17 600 young people left comprehensive school without qualifications. It is clear that it will be a challenge for high school to manage them and to manage the students in the introduction programs. The question is not least how to maintain the level of professional programmes. I'm worried. That's not enough. The overall national figure is marginally lower, but again: for many years there have been very large differences between different municipalities and between different directions. There is also a difference in the quality of these courses depending on whether you come from study and used homes or have parents with higher education. This also applies to these training courses. I believe that the government's response does not propose any concrete measures and that it is more a history statement than concrete measures for the future, Madam President.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-133	Madam President, I would like When I was a kid and went to school there was an excavated study material called Hello Mathematics. I notice that Roger Haddad has his own mathematical model. When Roger Haddad looks at the results in upper secondary school, he points to all the curves pointing upwards and says it is the merit of the People's Party, or Liberals. Then he points to all the curves pointing downwards and says it is the fault of the Social Democrats. That math doesn't hold, Roger Haddad. We must agree that there are many things going in the right direction in Swedish schools. We see that the results of knowledge are increasing. Roger Haddad and I are both happy about it. However, I refrain from the exercise Roger Haddad is engaged in which he puts himself and his own party as responsible for everything well and me and my party as responsible for everything that has gone badly. I would rather pay tribute to the teachers and students who have achieved the increased knowledge results in Swedish schools. I also see that we from political parties have contributed to trying to give teachers and students the best possible conditions. Roger Haddad also makes a point of calling introduction programs and preparatory courses for experimental workshops. These programs and courses are, as far as I know, solid building blocks in the high school bill that Roger Haddad recently celebrated and that came from Jan Björklund's Department of Education – a high school bill that I have deliberately changed in such a way that I have removed things that don't work and added things that get better without making big and dramatic changes that make life difficult for teachers and students. I'm glad more people can make it to school. I am concerned about the figures that continue to be far too bad in terms of the functioning of our entire school system. But I am not going to take part in a job which points to a single figure and on the basis of it completely undermines all the work that has been done and which is, to a large extent, actually going in the right direction. May I also say a few words about the programmes that Roger Haddad mentioned. Roger Haddad has talked a lot about the introduction programme but also about the care programme. I am very proud of the work done in our care programmes. I also note that the care programme has grown. It is a program where there is a large proportion of newly arrived students. They are students who struggle and work hard to try to get through the health care programme, even though they have not brought Swedish with them from home and have gone to Swedish school for a few years. I am absolutely not satisfied that the health and social care programme is showing declining figures, but I understand that those who work on the health and social care programme are struggling very hard to keep the numbers up, given that there are so many students who need support in the form of language interventions, for example, to complete the education. Last but not least, I would like to comment that Roger Haddad mentions the professional packages. I'm very happy about that. They are perhaps the most important contribution to the opportunities for young people to enter the labour market, even if they fail to complete upper secondary education in one step. With the professional packages, students will have the opportunity to take courses in vocational education and training that will lead directly to a job and also the opportunity to return later to Komvux and complete upper secondary education.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-141	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that I want to safeguard our upper secondary school reform, because the proposals that the Social Democrats continue to push forward in the Swedish Parliament mean going back to the old, more theorized and callless upper secondary school where the exclusion effect was even greater and fewer completed the professional programmes with a professional degree. Of course, I would like to warn against the Social Democrats going back to the old high school policy where it was easy to get into high school but where many did not come out with a complete vocational education. What has happened is that there are more applicants. There are more people who can handle their vocational training. There are even more first-hand applicants for important specialisations such as vehicles and transport, health care and long-term care, children and leisure time and electricity and energy 2018 – 2019 compared to when we started this reform. That's a good thing. The labour market, working life, municipalities and regions demand upper secondary vocational training, and when it does not work, they do not get the right skills and the right staffing, which can affect the quality of welfare. The private business community does not get their drivers and other important employees that these programs provide. It is remarkable how few new proposals the government presents in the secondary field despite the fact that there are quality deficiencies. The general problem is that a quarter of high school students drop out and leave high school; it has been nearly 30 percent for a long time. This is the major problem that Swedish education policy must address in the whole education policy for the upper secondary school. However, because vocational training is particularly important and because we are beginning to see a development that is worrying, we have chosen to raise this issue and make demands for measures that unfortunately I do not see smoke coming.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-145	Madam President, I would like Those high school students who may listen to this debate may not know what an lp-record is, but I can say that it's like listening to a tired old lp-record to hear Roger Haddad describe social democratic education policy. Theorised upper secondary education – what is the idea of theorized upper secondary education that Roger Haddad claims we are presenting? On the contrary, we have strengthened the elements of workplace learning. We've strengthened the tutor training. And what is the suggestion of callousness that Roger Haddad is talking about? What we have done is that we have introduced a greater requirement for attendance in the Swedish upper secondary school with a proper attendance reporting. I could continue to read out all the efforts that have been made and mentioned earlier in my reply, but I will save the patience of high school students and instead refer to what I said earlier. Roger Haddad says that the Social Democrats are pursuing an old-fashioned policy that is anti-knowledge and that it wants the professional programmes that we have in high school to be able to lead to higher education qualifications. Roger Haddad is well aware that the proposal that was put on the table of Parliament and that fell to my sorrow just over a year ago was a proposal that had such a massive support from the social partners that I have never experienced its like. Every industry organisation in the Swedish business community, the management of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the CEOs of large companies, small business managers – I have rarely experienced such a courtship as when that proposal was drawn up, and I have rarely experienced that a proposal has had such strong support from the employers that both I and Roger Haddad care about, as the proposal to introduce a strengthened right of access for students in professional programmes. I regret that it fell, but I refuse to agree that it would be an expression of callousness or old-fashioned politics.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-149	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures the Government intends to take to address the shortcomings in the governance of the National Museum that Statskontoret's report points to. Furthermore, Lotta Finstorp asks what measures the Government intends to take to ensure that the budget bases provided by the Nationalmuseum to the Government meet the requirements of transparency, intelligibility, completeness and reliability over time. The question is raised in the light of Statskontoret's report regarding the internal management, governance and follow-up of the National Museum, which was submitted to the Government in November 2019. First, I want to make it clear that the Government's mission to Statskontoret has been limited to the internal management, control and follow-up of the National Museum. Statskontoret has therefore not looked at the public activities or at the overall achievement of its objectives. The renovation and opening of the new National Museum has meant a great effort on our common cultural heritage, and the new museum has received a very positive reception and become an audience success. Since August 1, 2018, the National Museum also has a new chief curator and manager. At the beginning of 2019, the Government gave Statskontoret the current assignment in order to get an overview of the organisation and a good basis and tool for the work ahead. The measures regarding government governance of the National Museum proposed by Statskontoret in its report are now being implemented in the National Museum's regulation letter for 2020. The National Museum is given a developed mandate in terms of economic forecasts and a special mandate to take measures to ensure sound internal governance and control with a view to improving financial control and accounting. Work on the mission to secure internal governance and control will also contribute to the Authority's effective reporting back to the Government. In order to receive support in this work, the Nationalmuseum will take help from the Swedish Financial Control Agency (Ekonomistyrningsverket) and regularly review the work with the Government Office, the Ministry of Culture. The assignment shall be reported to the Government by 15 September 2020. Statskontoret's report makes it clear that these are changes that will take many years to implement. The Government has a dialogue with the Authority and the Superintendent, and takes the necessary measures to ensure a well-functioning operation and a stable economy in the short and long term.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-154	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In March 2019, the Government commissioned Statskontoret to analyse and submit proposals regarding the development of Nationalmuseum's internal management, governance and follow-up. The report that Statskontoret submitted to the government at the end of last year is worrying and very critical. It is also sad reading about the governance of one of Sweden's most important national heirlooms. When I have prepared for this interpellation debate, I have also considered the governance of cultural institutions in the form of authorities and the speciality that culture should be free and at arm's length away from politics. The Nationalmuseum agency is governed by the Decree(2007:1175) with instructions for the National Museum, through the appointing authority, through the grant to the agency and so on. However, when it comes to governance in administrative and economic matters, there is therefore no difference between governing an authority in general. Then comes the second part. There is a great difference between the area in which we work, culture. It should be free, and the policy should be at arm's length. The Authority shall be governed by the REG so that it is given good conditions to lead, steer and follow up its activities. ..................................................... The Minister's reply shows that there is now clarity and that it helps to steer up and lead. But that is what the report says that I am referring to. There, Statskontoret considers that the management, control and follow-up of the National Museum is not appropriate. It is unclear in several respects whether the Nationalmuseum meets the requirements of, among other things, the Government Decree. It's extremely serious. I looked at a report from the Committee on Finance on the basis of the 2010 administrative policy bill. It sets out the objectives for the governance of state activities. It says that the emphasis should be clear, focused on the performance of the activities, adapted to the activities and have a citizen's perspective. It shall apply to all authorities. It can then be thought that the approach towards cultural authorities should be the same for all authorities regarding administration and economic issues, but that the adaptation of activities should be based on the activities of the different authorities. It is extremely serious that Statskontoret finds that the National Museum does not use the financial framework in its planning. Nevertheless, this applies to all the authorities. I am surprised that the government has not taken hold of it in a more serious way in the past. It took a long time before Statskontoret was given this assignment. It would have been a good idea if you had done it before, because there are also problems with the working environment. Staff have, as far as I've read, felt bad. There has been unclear management and control. On this basis, I would like to ask the Minister a question. The Museum Act has been strengthened, which has made museums even more independent today. How can we balance governance at government level?
i-SieQU95jnegLBCBQWL5Hdu	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for interesting questions! I think it's important that we separate it. It is about the freedom of culture and the mission of the authorities, including our cultural authorities, to implement cultural policy independently of politics. They will relate to the goals we set ourselves in our governance documents and operationalize it. But when it comes to management, control and follow-up of the financial parts, we must be clear, as Lotta Finstorp says, that they are government agencies. They must, of course, carry out their tasks, as must all state authorities. When I took office as Minister of Culture, this was one of the first things I dealt with. The National Museum has been closed for a number of years. With the relaunch, it became clear that there is a challenge with internal management, governance and control, as well as economic follow-up and economic work. This was also the reason why in March last year we commissioned Statskontoret to carry out this analysis. Allowing Statskontoret to carry out analyses of selected agencies is part of how the Ministry of Culture and the entire Government Office is working to make general reviews and follow-ups of the departments. It is a good way, not least when, as in this case, it is a relatively new superintendent. It is a good time to put the light on these questions and make such a fundamental analysis. It should also be said that in all years, regardless of which political parties have ruled the Ministry of Culture, no such thorough analysis of the National Museum has been made. It's a very valuable report. It is very critical, and it shows things that are serious. This is also why the measures are comprehensive. We give these two assignments: to strengthen financial reporting and to work with internal development work at the agency. As Statskontoret points out, you must ensure that you have good control of the internal work in terms of governance, follow-up and administration. I think it was good that the search was done now. It came at the right time. Although, of course, I can also wish that it had been done before, it was one of the first things that I made sure that we dealt with. In the budget, we have also made sure to provide the supplements that the National Museum needs to manage its activities. Now they have a larger business and a larger audience, which of course is positive. The National Museum has a fantastic business. It is gratifying that it has become such a strong interest in the activities of the National Museum. In order to answer the question, I think we need to be crystal clear. We expect all authorities under the Ministry of Culture or the government departments to of course meet the requirements of satisfactory management, governance and control.
i-DxUH2q6Ymf26Pqs1Sgi935	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Culture and Democracy, for a good discussion! Now that I have entered the Committee on Culture, I have entered a new area. I have had many contacts with authorities over the years; this is very special. In 2008, the Swedish National Audit Office examined the government's transparency and follow-up of state-created foundations, since there are many different forms of activity in the cultural sector. But it wasn't specifically the National Museum. It appears that the same situation persists eleven years later. In the report from the Swedish National Audit Office that we will soon be dealing with, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that the Swedish Ministry of Culture is governing the foundations. The cultural area is especially in many ways, precisely because there are so many different forms within our enclosure. There are a huge number of small institutions that are organised in different ways. They are government agencies, they are associations, they are foundations and they are state-owned companies. I saw a figure of 52 organisations to which the government allocates funds, 19 of which are government agencies. I think that number is correct. The 2009 Cultural Survey proposes to reduce the number of authorities. I think it never got as far as draft decisions. But it is included in the proposal. The 2015 museum investigation also shows that the Ministry of Culture has a disproportionate number of small authorities and that, as it says in the investigation, it is burdensome for the Government Office. According to the study, it risks hindering a more strategic governance of state-funded cultural activities. My next question is: what is the Minister's view of what is stated in the report that the large number of small authorities makes it difficult for the Government Office to control how it works? The principle of arm's length is very interesting. I am pleased with the Minister's answer. It must be order and structure in governance and management and in the financial framework that is allocated to it. Of course, you have to control the money you have, even if there is always a desire for a little more. Then we'll get to the point where culture is supposed to be free. It shall be governed by the objectives of cultural policy. But how it is to be done must be left behind. Otherwise, we'll get too close again. There are disturbing writings in the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis letter from 2019, on which we have had a debate here before. Out in Kultursverige we hear more about that there are a lot of parameters that have to be met when applying for grants. You have to fill out different forms. The work of art must comply with certain criteria in order to be able to get money at all. I find this very worrying. I'd like to try something. What if culture could be unleashed in a completely different way rather than being guided by these parameters? My question so far concerns, above all, the many small authorities. Does the Minister dare to think a little loud about this?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-178	Madam President, I would like Thinking aloud in the speaker's chair may not be the best thing to do as a minister. However, this is what Lotta Finstorp says. Within the cultural field there are a variety of activities that the Ministry of Culture supports in various ways. Some of us have a direct and complete responsibility over. This applies to a number of government agencies, of which the National Museum is an example. There are also a number of foundations and activities for which we are a major financier. The background to this is that these activities come from different sources. They have been shaped in a certain way fundamentally and may later have been given a state commitment. This may have meant that the State has inherited in a way an activity that has looked in a certain way. In other cases, it has been found that it has been wise and strategic to have, for example, a national museum that serves as its own authority. There have been several mergers and different ways of clustering skills, if you think that is the purpose. The music work is, for example, a construction that previously consisted of several different activities that they wanted to collect under an umbrella. As a matter of principle, I have no objection to trying to find effective ways of organising the Swedish Government and also authorities under the Ministry of Culture. But it should always be done with regard to both the unique activity and the way in which the area in question is managed and can be used in the best possible way. One must be able to maintain a competence there. Let me briefly comment on what Lotta Finstorp says about the freedom of culture and the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis report. I hope that the Member of Parliament is aware that we gave a mission to the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis to primarily analyse the state's contribution and the guidelines for funding. One would see whether there were concrete formal problems with arm's length there but also whether there could be indirect governance even if the ambition is not such. It may be overinterpreted by the recipients of the grants. This too is important to shed light on. This is an important debate. I am very pleased that we can carry it out within the framework of the mission. We also commission the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis to look at how the municipalities manage their operations. Overall, I believe that this will deepen the discussion on arm's length. What does it mean in the cultural world? What's it look like? How can we work together from the national, municipal and regional levels to strengthen the principle of arm's length? As far as the authorities under the Ministry of Culture are concerned, I can generally say that we have an active approach to government governance. We have now given this mission to look specifically at the National Museum, and there are similar government assignments that are rolling on for other activities. For example, the National Antiquarie Office is also something that we take the opportunity to do a more thorough analysis of. This is one way. Then, of course, there are the annual follow-ups with government dialogues that I as the responsible minister take very seriously. I think it is important that we make proper formal demands on the authorities we have. We will also have an active follow-up and dialogue with our authorities. As soon as we notice that something is wrong or that there are reports from the annual follow-ups that the Swedish National Audit Office does, for example, we must act. As a minister, I am, of course, prepared to do so, even in other cases than in the case of the National Museum.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-189	Madam President, I would like I think we are having an important debate on these rather difficult issues. How long is an arm's length? The definition of this is not quite clear. In my last speech, I would like to return to the National Museum and to the sad and outrageous reading of the report. I think the Minister's answer is positive. The structure set out in the response is good as is clear reporting. However, I am thinking about health and safety at work issues which really need to be taken seriously. An institution such as the National Museum of course requires high competence, good management and so on so that we really get the skills needed for us to have an attractive workplace. That people should want to work there is almost a matter of survival. There must be transparency and transparency in a confident working environment. My last question is about something in the answer. It was said that there will be a report in the autumn. Statskontoret writes that it will take a long time before you see good and positive results of all the measures that need to be taken. What is the government's and the Ministry of Culture's long-term plan?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-192	Madam President, I would like Statskontoret believes in the report that the agency has been characterised by absent leadership, unclear responsibilities and a lack of important structures and working methods. What the government has done is to appoint a superintendent, which took place in 2018, and to give this assignment to Statskontoret. With the report we have got a broad and good basis that also gives both me and the department an important input in the work further so that we can get an effective governance. Nationalmuseum is Sweden's largest art and design museum with northern Europe's largest and most extensive collections. There is a great interest in the National Museum after the new opening, and the number of visitors is high. It is therefore very important that the agency carries out its activities effectively, that it uses the tax funds it has received in a good way and that it has adequate governance, management and financial follow-up. As I said, we have given two assignments in the regulatory letters that are about working with developing the financial reports. The Swedish Financial Control Agency should also help in this work and in the internal development work. Statskontoret indicates that this will take time. Of course, we are already seeing positive results. It is noted that the financial bases have already improved. We have introduced more forecasting times, where we require financial forecasts from the National Museum. Of course, we have intensified follow-up and dialogue. In addition, we await the reporting in the formal sense of this autumn. Let's see how we move on. Of course, I am not ruling out that there may be more missions and that we will continue to have an intensified follow-up of the National Museum in the future. It should, of course, be an authority that is conducted properly and well.
i-UcjB92XgL3TYppjQ2Tg2e9	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi, Minister Jennie Nilsson and Minister Matilda Ernkrans. A question shall be of a horizontal or general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Minister for Industry answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-197	Mr President, I would like to The post office in Sweden will work. This weekend, however, came new crisis reports about Postnord. According to a report, the company was bankrupt. Ibrahim Baylan said at first that this is not true; there is no problem with the mail. He said later that it's probably trouble and opened up to shoot at millions or even billions to save the post office. The post office itself said that you have to change the postal rules in Sweden in order to avoid billions of losses and bankruptcy. Minister Ygeman quickly announced that the government will not do so. Now Ibrahim Baylan is opening for the Swedish people to pay billions because the government cannot manage its own house and make the post office work. I wonder: how does Ibrahim Baylan reason now that he has decided to open up again to inject billions into the post office?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-199	Mr President, I would like to Lars Helmered's question makes me think of the Bible's words about seeing the mote in his brother's eye but not the beam in his own. Why is Postnord in trouble, ladies and gentlemen? It is unequivocally so for two reasons. One: a completely ill-considered clash with the Danish post, which the moderate-led government carried out ten years ago. Although there were no impact assessments and even though there were criticisms, not least from the Swedish National Audit Office, this was carried out. The second is, of course, that the volume of letters is decreasing due to digitalisation. It's not news – it's happening in Sweden and all over the world. What's it look like right now? The performance of postal services has improved over the past year. You might even make a plus result for the first time in a long time. But in the long run, in five ten years' time, it is clear that even fewer letters will be sent. Of course, we need to find out now how to finance a good postal service throughout the country.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-203	Mr President, I would like to A few years ago, here in Parliament, we were involved in saving the post with an ownership addition, as a one-off event with clear demands on the company and on the government to steer up so that this will not happen again. Here comes new crisis reports. Ibrahim Baylan says at first that it is not a problem and then that it is a major problem. The question is: will taxpayers again have to spend billions to save the post office?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-204	Mr President, I would like to This is quite telling how the Moderate Party is acting these days. In politics, you start from headlines without reading the text below. The post office is doing better today than before. But one cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that their main task, namely the delivery of letters, over time because of digitalisation will disappear. Then we have to ask ourselves how to guarantee the postal service, because this is the most important task of the government: to guarantee that we have good postal services throughout the country, including in the long term.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-207	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Ibrahim Baylan. In 2019, 257 bombings took place in Sweden. This is an increase of almost 60 percent compared to 2018, and 2020 does not look to be better. Two bombings took place in central Stockholm and Uppsala last week, as well as double explosions in Husby and Kista this week. Criminologist Amir Rostami claimed at the end of last year that the bombings in Sweden were unprecedented in Europe and went so far as to claim that war zones had to be sought in order to find something similar. Nevertheless, the government continues to repeat the mantra, we did not see it coming. High immigration leads to segregation, which in turn leads to crime. Several years ago, when the Swedish Democrats proposed a new migration policy, more police officers and stricter penalties, the criticisms of the other parties were hailed. Now it sounds different. My question is: does Ibrahim Baylan think that there is a link between the increasing crime and the irresponsible migration policy that has been going on for years?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-210	Mr President, I would like to It is no news that the Swedish Democrats see every problem or deficiency, both in Sweden and in the world, as well as the immigrants' faults. For me, the fact that we have crime of this nature, both shootings and explosions, is unacceptable, regardless of who is behind it. In the last case, the police have announced that they have arrested a suspect and will investigate this. I think it is important that we, as a society, never accept this but take the necessary measures to get rid of it. It is humiliating, of course, for those who are affected, but also for those who commit these crimes. It is a dog's life to be involved in crime and drug trafficking. So what do we do? We've greatly increased the resources for the police. We have tightened up a large number of penalties and we will continue with this work. At the same time, of course, we must also ensure that those who want to get into gang crime through social measures are eliminated.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-213	Mr President, I would like to I cannot interpret this in any other way than as yet another proof of how paralysed the government is and how it seems completely lacking in understanding of the background to shootings and blasts. Segregation in alienation areas is due to excessive migration of refugees. If mass immigration has no bearing on the increase in crime and if, as the government says, it is enriching for the country and provides the labour force that we need, why does the government say that it wants to tighten up asylum immigration?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-214	Mr President, I would like to No government in modern times has increased the resources for the judiciary as this government does. No government has tightened the penalties as this government does. Is this enough? No, of course not. We must constantly ensure that we fight both organised crime, no matter who commits it, and the causes of the crime. This is basically – we should actually be able to agree on – something that we need to get rid of.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-215	Mr President, I would like to I, too, would like to ask Ibrahim Baylan a question. This applies to the memorandum that the government is about to come up with that in digital payments you can no longer have an invoice as the default payment method. The Government considers it problematic that invoices are sent and that it risks leading to people not paying and thus risk getting a reminder fee of SEK 60, for example. Does the Minister think it is good to go in and regulate in detail how companies can get their payments in this area?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-217	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen, for the question! No, to be honest, I do not think that there should be unnecessary regulation, either detailed regulation or regulation when something works. But when social problems arise, sometimes because of new technology and new technological developments, which put people in rather difficult positions, not least when it comes to taking on too much costs and loans, which then, in turn, puts them in financial difficulties which, of course, also become a problem for our common society, one must look at what is the best solution forward. Often you find a rather pragmatic balance to both have a technological development and at the same time ensure that people don't get hurt. That's how the government wants to work. In this particular case, the Center Party must also see that there are real problems, and we must resolve them jointly.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-219	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree that it is a problem if citizens are put in a difficult financial position by sending them to debt collection, etc. There I can say that the government has a policy that means that if you are to pay a congestion fee of 9 SEK in Gothenburg and do not do so in time, you get an invoice fee of 500 SEK directly from the state, and then you are sent to the debt collection. CSN is the single largest player who sends people to debt collection. There is no one who pursues such a strong usury policy towards Sweden's citizens as the state. The Center Party has put forward a proposal to ensure that the state lives by the same rules that we want entrepreneurs to comply with. How does the Minister of Economic Affairs view it?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-221	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that we still agree. As the honourable Member is well aware, when you shop on an invoice, the risk is that you buy a little more than you can afford and thus get into the difficulties we are talking about. I am pleased that we agree that we should not have it that way. It is clear that the state should act in the same way as we demand others to do. But then we are talking about quite different things from the memo that the honourable Member raised.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-224	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Baylan. Today we are seeing private health care companies, insurance companies and online medical companies gaining increasing power and influence over tax-funded healthcare through an unregulated market. Private pharmacy chains align themselves with online doctors. It is currently forbidden for health care companies to own pharmacies, but the reverse, that pharmacies buy health care companies, is completely unregulated. We thought that state-owned Apoteket AB would stay away from this type of business, but state-owned Apoteket AB has recently bought into the online doctoral app Dr.24, owned by the Wallenberg Sphere. Mr President, I would like to Will the Government in any way act on this issue?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-228	Mr President, I would like to Since the regulation of the poteksmarket, Apoteket AB operates on market grounds in accordance with the directives of this Parliament. That is to say, you do about what the other companies do and try to give a return on the basis of the goals that exist for the business. Is that supposed to be the case? There was, of course, not least from both Karin Rågsjö's party and my own party, a rather great scepticism against this. At the same time, as Karin Rågsjö puts it, we have technological development and digitalisation. Views can be made on how this has been done, but one can also have views on the fact that the common, i.e. regions and county councils, have not developed this. Now we are in this position. My colleague Lena Hallengren, the Minister for Social Affairs, has commissioned the Swedish Medical Products Agency to submit a report if we are to have it in this way. That report has now been delivered, and the government will jointly review whether this is a reasonable development or whether we should tighten the regulatory framework.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-231	Mr President, I would like to That sounds promising to us. But does the Government not think that it is time for restrictions for Apoteket AB, for example, to buy into the activities of online doctors? There must be an end to the ravages of market fundamentalists in health care and throughout welfare. The state and capital are in the same boat, and in this case the boat drives far away from equality in health care.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-232	Mr President, I would like to I think that people's needs in health care, whether in medicine or in health care, are the most important things to focus on. Then it is not the thickness of the wallet or profit interests that should govern. Now we have a development here, and we will, of course, look at how we can get regulation so that it is people's needs and nothing else that governs medicine or health care.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-234	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats believe that health care would work better if the state had the main responsibility, but we do not envisage a nationalisation by the state buying into private companies. The problem with the behaviour of the state company that has just been mentioned, Apoteket AB, is that it is precisely in the conflict of interest that we do not want to see: anyone who prescribes medicines should not be the one selling medicines. The raw material between prescription and sale of medicinal products must be kept. A state-of-the-art company has reasonable dialogue with its owner before making such a move. It's not just any maneuver when you're approaching the gangway. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is therefore: Has there been a dialogue between the owner and the company before Apoteket AB decided on this, and if not, is it reasonable that Apoteket AB does such a remarkable maneuver without having dialogue?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-237	Mr President, I would like to Yes, they would have liked Acko Ankarberg Johansson and her party to have thought before they privatised and liberalised this market. There are many questions raised that I think are reasonable. But they moved on in a market-fundamentalist direction. Then one cannot now suddenly ask why it is what it is. Apoteket AB acts, through the proposal put forward by the Christian Democrats together with the other bourgeois government, market-wise like any other company. That is the directive that this Parliament has given. It is this directive that governs, because the government cannot come up with its own directives, and that means that it has ownership coordination if you go over a certain ownership share. In this case, such a level of ownership is not achieved. Is this, then, a problem on the whole? Yes, I mean there are a lot of doubts that need to be considered. This applies to all pharmacies and in this case online medical services.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-240	Mr President, I would like to I think the Minister for Enterprise missed the point. What was remarkable in this exercise was, of course, that a state-owned company is stepping over the raw material that is so important to the whole market, namely that the one who prescribes is not the one selling medicines. When a private company did the same thing a while ago, you got justified criticism, but how is everyone else supposed to understand it when the state itself does it? Then the state has confirmed in practice that it can do so. Shouldn't there have been dialogue?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-242	Mr President, I would like to This is telling how the Christian Democrats act. First, they act in a market-fundamentalist direction. It liberalises the pharmacy market, sells out pharmacies and leaves directives through the Riksdag that Apoteket AB should act on the market. When Apoteket AB then does it, you ask: Why do they do it this way? Of course there are problems here. That is why we have requested a dossier from the Medical Products Agency. It's being processed right now at the Department of Social Affairs. It is about ensuring how we secure trust in the entire chain of pharmacies – doctors – healthcare.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-245	Mr President, I would like to I'm also going to put a question to Minister Baylan. After all, Sweden's electricity system is fully integrated with neighbouring countries, both electrically and economically. The Nordic-Baltic electricity system has bottlenecks, but it has no national borders. The government is happy to talk about last year's record outflow of electricity from the Swedish price areas to other parts of the system. These net exports from Sweden are put forward as an argument that it would be unproblematic to close large amounts of regulated fossil-free electricity production. When we look at the entire Nordic-Baltic system, however, it is a little different. Last year, 17 terawatt hours came from coal power, and 19 terawatt hours were imported. Emissions of climate gases will increase significantly when we shut down fossil-free electricity production, and the government knows this, of course. My question to the Government is: Is it more important for you to shut down reactors than to deal with the climate crisis?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-250	Mr. Talm a n! We have a cooperation in the Nordic countries for a very long time. The Nordic – it is mainly Nordic – the electricity system has been a success story and a model for how the EU is now trying to rig up a system. It is about as follows: Since 2011 – 2012 Sweden has been a net exporter of electricity year after year, and net exports are increasing. This has also been the case for Norway. Those who tend to be net importers are mainly Finland and Denmark. In Norway it is mainly hydropower. In Sweden it has been hydropower, nuclear power and wind power. When we import-- because that can happen, of course-- it's mainly hydropower from Norway. But basically it is like this: Since we created long-term conditions, we have had huge investments in the electricity system, which means that we can both guarantee electricity to our households and industries and can also be a net exporter of electricity in the future. It's good for Sweden. It's good for the North.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-253	Mr President, I would like to Last year, after all, 17 terawatt hours came from coal power – we can't get away from that. Northern Europe has great conditions for sustainable energy production. It is not reasonable for us, with our good conditions, to be dependent on coal power and the import of fossil fulel. Instead, we should contribute by taking greater responsibility for energy-intensive activities, and I think it is serious that the government does not take climate responsibility on this issue.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-255	Mr President, I would like to I know that Arman Teimouri is a very serious and good politician. I'd like to recommend him to do some reading. Coal power is neither in Norway nor in Sweden. It exists mainly in Denmark and Germany. When Sweden imports it is mainly hydropower from Norway, because we also have the best connections there. This means, of course, that when we continue to develop our system, we could also help to remove the coal power that is still being used, and that is being done step by step.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-258	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to ask Ibrahim Baylan a question. We have a very large electricity surplus in Sweden. That is also why we are exporting to other countries. At the same time, we have a power shortage which means that at certain times in some places the electricity grids are overloaded. This is the case in Malmö, for example, from which I come. Electricity production takes place in other parts of Sweden, and the capacity for transferring electricity from there to Malmö is not sufficiently expanded. It may have the consequence that electricity-intensive companies cannot expand their activities.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-261	Mr President, I would like to During the last parliamentary term, we made a cross-block agreement with Moderates, Centre Partyrs, Christian Democrats and environmentalists to ensure the security of electricity supply for households and industries throughout the country. It was very successful. We managed to reform policies on hydropower, nuclear power and renewable energy. As Hillevi Larsson says, this has meant that we have a record surplus of clean electricity in our country. That's good. On the other hand, transmission capacity is not good enough. Then there is little else to be done but to ensure that it is developed step by step – in the core networks, in the regional networks and in the local networks. This is an issue that my colleague Anders Ygeman is working intensively on. I have quite a great deal of faith that we will be able to solve these problems, so that we can get an exchange on the clean electricity that is increasingly produced in our country.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-263	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is very gratifying that we have a large electricity surplus and that we can export to other countries. But we will also ensure that this reaches out throughout Sweden. It is primarily the Malmö region and Mälardalen with Stockholm that are affected – these are important parts of the country. It is positive that you say that everyone must participate – the state, municipalities and regions.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-264	Mr President, I would like to Yes, and it is also important that we make sure that we facilitate the planning processes that are often an obstacle or at least delay it. There's technology. There's a will. The resources are there. But our planning processes are far too slow. It was against that background that I asked an investigator to come up with new rules. This has now been put forward. The government will of course move forward so that we get this done and can take advantage of the large electricity surpluses that we have in our country.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-265	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mr Nilsson my question. In 2017, within the framework of the Swedish Board of Agriculture's activities, a 3R centre was established in Sweden with the task of coordinating actors and disseminating knowledge in the field of experimental animals. According to the 2010 European Parliament Experimental Animal Directive, the use of animals in experiments should only be considered in cases where alternative methods do not exist. Animal-free opportunities for research are many and varied already today, but are not used as widely as possible. With the right initiatives, much more animal testing could be replaced. I would like to know what the statistics in Sweden look like. Have we reduced the use of animals in experiments in recent years? Have there been fewer painful animal experiments in recent years?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-268	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Elisabeth Falkhaven, for a very urgent question! Elisabeth Falkhaven highlights in her question the competence centre set up at the Swedish Agriculture Agency, which aims at a positive development in reducing the proportion of animal experiments. It is about finding alternative methods, replacing and limiting and disseminating knowledge. It is a work that, in my opinion, works well. The development and trend that we see both in Sweden and at European level is that this is going down anyway, at least with regard to the part on which one might have had the most focus, namely toxicological tests. There the proportion is now down to 10 percent in Europe and significantly below that in Sweden.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-271	Mr President, I would like to A crucial reason why unnecessary animal testing is slow to phase out has to do with attitudes. It would therefore be useful to drive the use of modern biotechnology together with advanced computer simulations and computational models in doctoral studies and in research.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-273	Mr President, I would like to My picture is that you need to have a long-term and sustainable work in this area with a focus on constantly developing technology and alternative methods and spreading knowledge of the experiences and results that have been obtained. It is a work that we have organised around. We're good, but we need to do more. That's why the government allocates SEK 15 million, I think, to the budget to continue working on these issues.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-275	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. The government is now going to lower the tax for all pensioners who earn over SEK 17 000. You can look at what the layer looks like for Swedish pensioners. This tax reduction is in principle directed only at men. The average woman has a monthly pension of 13 000 – 15 000 kroner a month. This tax reduction is aimed at pensioners with an income of over SEK 17 000. My question to the Government is: how is it that this government has marketed itself as a feminist government? The last two tax reductions have been directed at a larger group of men. The military tax has been abolished, and now that the tax on pensioners is being reduced, a larger group of men is being targeted. But it is women who have the lowest pensions, and they must not take part in the tax cut that the government is going through.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-278	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Arin, for the question. And thank you very much for your commitment! It will be very gratifying when the Moderates finally start talking about pensioners' income – after having introduced pensioner's tax and having opposed pension increases. It is gratifying, then, that at least once we have the opportunity to discuss pensioners' incomes in this House with a moderate. We started by abolishing the pensioner's tax on those with the lowest pensions. That was our duty. But we will continue to raise pensions. And where we still have pensioner's tax, we are going to abolish the penalty tax for our pensioners. This is one of the most important tasks that we have on our table: to ensure that the incomes of pensioners are increased and pensions raised. My counter-question will be: Are the Moderates in on this?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-282	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Jennie Nilsson. I read in Norrland Social Democratic: a reduction in the number of dairy and meat farmers in the county, and now the National Federation of Farmers is alerting. If it continues like this, we will soon have no farmers left, says Jenny Karlsson, LRF Chairman of Norrbotten. ..................................................... The LRF criticises the government and the Center Party. The number of dairy farmers in Norrbotten has been halved in ten years, and land is growing again. There's a risk of getting into a negative spiral. The food strategy has not yet provided any improvements at farm level. The strategy is good, but I think that the government and the support parties are making a mistake of thought. In fact, profitability must take precedence over the strategic investments and investments in agriculture that farmers are expected to make. The Swedish Democrats are spending 900 million more on agriculture now. In addition, we remove the diesel tax and abolish the employer's and sick pay liability for the first employees. What is the government doing to overcome the difficult times now, pending the effects of the food strategy?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-287	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Staffan Eklöf, for the question. I can see that last year we increased Norrland support with, I believe, SEK 100 million precisely in order to strengthen the conditions for farmers in Norrland. At the same time, just as Staffan Eklöf describes, we are seeing a worrying development in the profitability of this sector, not least linked to the conditions of dairy farmers. I think you have to work wide. We got a food strategy in place last parliamentary term. It was the first time in Sweden that we have had a national strategy in this area. It's important. At the same time, it must be recognised that it takes time for it to have an impact on the farm level of the individual farmer. The priority for me since I took office as a minister has been to ensure that we get a new plan of action that jackets in the work that has begun. There, the focus has been both on things that affect here and now, such as regulatory issues, and on research, innovation and increased export opportunities.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-290	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to the Minister for Rural Affairs. The number of wildlife accidents is increasing, and Halland is no exception. The feral pig strain is increasing uncontrollably, causing not only road accidents involving carriage and personal injuries, but also damage to farms, shelters and villa gardens. A better game management policy is needed in general. We need to review the feeding of game so that animals are not fed in relation to the areas from which they need to stay away. A current game management plan has been missing for many years, and I hope that the Government will do what she can to speed up the work that is now going on within the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The Center Party would also like to see a new game management authority that takes a comprehensive approach to the issues and also has a good regional base.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-295	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ola Johansson, for the question! It is my absolute belief that we need to have an orderly game management in Sweden and that it is a priority to continue working on these issues. The example that was lifted linked to, for example, traffic accidents in Halland and elsewhere in Sweden relates to a steep increase in wild boar strain. There the government has made a number of proposals, so far mainly linked to hunting opportunities. It is possible today to hunt boars in principle around the clock, all year round. We have also moved on with the task of increasing the willingness to hunt, for example through better marketing of game meat to consumers. We are in the process of preparing and dealing with the issue of feeding, which was, after all, turned here in Parliament to be sent back to the government in the part dealing with feeding. I think we all need to have all these questions in place to see an effect.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-299	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Matilda Ernkrans. Genus scientists are afraid to make a public statement. Someone hung a bomb rap on the door of the Swedish Secretariat for Gender Research. The Centre for Gender Studies in Uppsala must have guards at open lectures. These are some of the things that have happened in the last year. We know that in the debate many people claim that this is political research, pseudoscience, not an important subject. We also hear this here in the Swedish Parliament, and I therefore hope that we agree that gender science needs to be strengthened as a scientific subject.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-303	Mr President, I would like to I want to make it very clear that threats and hatreds against our researchers are totally unacceptable. This is not just about threats and hatreds of gender research. It also affects criminologists, historians and climate scientists. It is totally unacceptable, just as it is unacceptable that our bluelight personnel in certain areas should not be able to go in and save people where there is a fire. And just as we must protect journalists from threats and hatred, we must also protect our researchers. Free research is an active part of a democratic society. It is clear that we must also protect our scientists. This is something that I intend to ensure that we get back to when we develop Swedish research policy. I will come back to the House on this in the autumn. I hope the Left Party is there. I can be a little worried, because you have just established a new collaboration with the Swedish Democrats.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-306	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Social Security Ardalan Shekarabi. Before I became a member of Parliament, I worked as a priest in the Swedish Church and as a parish overseer and supervisor in a congregation. There I sometimes had to help employees back to work after a sick leave. However, it was made more difficult by a square system. You can only be on sick leave at 25, 50, 75 or 100 percent. Here many times an intermediate would be a good step, to go from 25 per cent to 50 per cent, too many employees can be too big a step to take. My question to the Minister is therefore: does the Minister share my view that there is a need for greater individualisation in the case of sick leave and therefore that today's firm steps should be replaced by more flexible ones?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-310	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hans Eklind, for the question and the commitment! We will receive next week the investigation that has looked at the right to sickness benefit. In fact, this investigation has been tasked, among other things, with looking at parts of the issues relating to flexibility. However, it is unlikely that there will be a proposal specifically related to the issue raised by Hans Eklind, but as soon as we have dealt with the investigation and its proposals, I am of the opinion that we should also look at other issues relating to flexibility. The more flexible the health insurance system is, the more opportunities we also have to offer people the security they deserve and the help they need to get back to work. I therefore look forward to acting together with Hans Eklind and the Riksdag to take action in this area too.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-313	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Ernkrans. Metoo showed us all that much more needs to be done to promote gender equality and combat violations. An important step in the right direction was the consent legislation that we clubed here in the Riksdag 2018. Now it is important that it also leads to a change in culture. Sex education and school cohabitation can play a key role in this process of change, but it is also important to ensure a high quality of teaching in this area. I therefore wonder what happens to paragraph 56 of the January Agreement, which states that sex and cohabitation education should be a compulsory part of teacher training.
i-PD6kHTg2PEtm8iayeKrRuS	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gunilla Svantorp, for the question! It is important that we have a really good sex and cohabitation education in our schools. Both the Swedish School Inspectorate and the Swedish Public Health Agency have pointed out that both teachers and students think this needs to be developed. I am therefore very pleased to be able to announce that the middle cooperation in Swedish politics actually enables us now to go forward with new degree goals for sex and cohabitation in teacher education. We are sending it for a referral right now, and we hope that everything can be clear so that those who start teacher education in autumn 2021 will include this in their education and be able to feel ready to improve sex and cohabitation education.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-319	Mr President, I would like to During 2019, Skogsstyrelsen, SCB and SLU presented statistics on how much of Sweden's forest land was taken from production for various reasons – various protection, reserved, impediment, all forests that simply do not exist in production. That percentage is 27 - 28 today. It is therefore forest land that we do not have any production on. Under the epithet of freedom under responsibility, Sweden's forest owners have ensured that most parameters are moving in the right direction in terms of biodiversity. Therefore, it needs to be as high production as possible in Swedish forests today for the climate and for Swedish nutrition to go as well as possible. There is a lot of investment in Swedish forests.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-322	Mr President, I would like to I thank John Widegren for the question. Swedish forestry policy is important. Forests are of great importance for jobs and growth throughout the country, for climate, biodiversity and recreation. In short, it contains many great and important values. We in Sweden have for a long time had a polarised debate, which I think is unfortunate and aims wrong. That is why I have taken the initiative that we should do a greater deal about the forest. We will raise crack issues linked to the development of forests and production while ensuring the sustainable use of our forests. The work will be started during the spring with a number of different seminars. It is important to create a long-term perspective by getting as broad a political base as possible behind the forestry policy that is then decided.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-326	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Enterprise. A crime wave of rarely seen character pours into Sweden. Youth robberies, stabbings and rapes have become commonplace. Serious crimes against persons are the focus, but at the same time burglaries, robberies and fraud are carried out on a continuous basis. Criminality is increasingly affecting, burdening and restricting the Swedish business community. According to the Swedish Trade Investigation Institute, companies' direct costs for crime and crime amounted to SEK 55 billion in 2018. In addition to this, there are indirect costs for purely preventive purposes. In practice, in other words, industry is forced to take the cost of the government's shortcomings. Mr President, I would like to I wonder how the Minister for Economic Affairs intends to act to remedy this.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-330	Mr President, I would like to I thank Tobias Andersson for the question. This is an urgent issue in that we can never ever accept that people are trying to get in our society through crime—no matter what kind of crime it is. The truth is, there are no shortcuts. We must fight both the crimes and the causes of the crimes. We fight crime by increasing the resources of the police, and we have done so. There will be 10,000 new employees by 2024 in our police department so that the criminals can be reached. Furthermore, the penalties should be tightened. The latest proposal we have put forward is, for example, a ban on access to shops for those who shoplift and engage in crime. We must continue this work. I don't think you ever get to a situation where you say everything has been done. For those who seriously want to get rid of crime and the causes of it do just that. Anyone who just wants to take political points is content to wallow in the fact that at the moment there is far too much crime in our country.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-334	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Jennie Nilsson. We have read in the media over the past few weeks, and even today, how unscrupulous wolves attack both hunting dogs and companion dogs. We know from the past that the predatory pressure on the reindeer industry in some areas is extremely high. The Swedish Parliament has previously decided that wolf should exist throughout the country, except in the reindeer grazing area. The reference level shall be between 170 and 270, and decisions shall be taken closer to those affected. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has set the reference level on the upper scale to 270, and then, after a government question, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has set it to 300. Now the predator management for wolf works so that all newly introduced wolves end up in northern Svealand, in Central Sweden. This, of course, creates incredible pressure on our rural areas. Does the Government think that local predator management works, and is it reasonable that all wolves should end up in northern Central Sweden?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-338	Mr President, I would like to I thank Peter Helander for the question. The decision taken in the Riksdag states that we should have favourable conservation status in Sweden. A figure was also given, as Peter Helander says, which has then been revised on the basis of new assessments of what is beneficial conservation status. The issue is complex in that, while I agree with Parliament's decisions and, as I see it, Peter Helander's view that the decision-making processes should be delegated close to those concerned, this is also an issue that falls within the scope of an EU directive called the Species and Habitats Directive. This means that we in Sweden are not free to deal with the issue exactly how we want to. The part that I think is important that we are developing further in predatory policy is about trying to ensure a better spread across the country. It is difficult when we are so close to what is beneficial conservation status today, but here we need to work on developing inventory methods and other things.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-343	Mr President, I would like to The fact that we have a state pharmacy is something that our society should take more advantage of. The Left Party believes that the sale of pharmacies and the introduction of private pharmacies were a major mistake. However, if we are now going to use the part of pharmacies that we still own, the focus should be to use that pharmacies meet patients considerably more often than doctors do. Therefore, the services and collaborations that pharmacies are now developing to improve pharmaceutical treatment should be updated. Having said that, I would like to point out that the private pharmacy's ownership of medical firms was criticised last year in a report from the Medical Products Agency that was submitted to the government. But now Apoteket AB does the opposite. Apoteket AB buys part of a private online medical company, despite risks for patients and despite the erosion it entails for our joint care. Will the government give priority to regulating this? It is still a large amount of money the online medical companies earn. It's money that could go to more important things than Wallenberg's pockets.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-346	Mr President, I would like to For me, this issue is ultimately about confidence in our entire health care and the supply of medicine. On what grounds is medicine prescribed? For me, there is only one basis, namely the need for those who need medicine and medical care. That's what's supposed to happen. When there are areas that are not regulated through technological development, it is important that we do so. It is against this background that the Government has requested the Swedish Medical Products Agency to provide a basis. That information has been submitted to the Ministry of Social Affairs. We will now go through it properly, precisely in order to safeguard confidence in the health care and the supply of medicines, but also, of course, so that the costs of the common do not run unnecessarily regardless of who runs a pharmacy or, for that matter, operates a network doctor company.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-348	Mr President, I would like to According to the government, the whole of Sweden should not only live but also grow. Is it reasonable from a business and accessibility perspective that the train journey on Dalabanan between Mora and the country's capital can be 60 minutes longer than the similar route Karlstad – Stockholm? Dalarna is one of Sweden's largest tourist counties. With 5 million guest nights in 2018, Dalarna is located directly after the three metropolitan areas. Mora is also an important place for tourism in Dalarna. Sixty-two thousand participants from 45 different nations came to Vasaloppet alone last year. In this context, it is worth recalling that for a year there has been no air traffic between Mora Airport and Arlanda Airport.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-351	Mr President, I would like to Marcus Jonsson raises an important issue when it comes to the development of our country: the tourism industry and its conditions. We have a very encouraging development in the tourism industry in our country – not least in Dalarna, where it has even increased faster than in our neighbouring countries. I would say that the tourism industry is becoming a new basic industry for our country, not least in the country, and it is clear that infrastructure will then become an important issue. It is against this background that the government has supported the opening of a new airport in Dalarna, in Sälen. It is necessary for the tourism industry. It is also against this background that the government has proposed and received the support of the Riksdag for significantly increased investment in infrastructure throughout our country. Unfortunately, it does not happen overnight. It takes time, but we shall step by step ensure that the infrastructure in our country is improved both for the people and for the industry.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-356	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mr Ardalan Shekarabi my question. Expectations of Social Democratic governments are usually great, which is, of course, flattering and, for our part, quite self-evident. Right now, there's a pretty strong expectation of health insurance. That is why my question is what is happening in the area of health insurance and what the government is doing.
i-A1f94kZD7gcX3EstqSC6Ao	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emilia Töyrä! We note that some of the changes that took place after the change of power in 2006 and are still in force in the legislation have had unreasonable effects. In particular, it concerns the examination of day 180 against normal work, where the exemption rules are very restrictive and restrictive. It has the effect that people do not have the financial security they deserve because of square rules. Therefore, the government set up an investigation, which will present legislative proposals specifically on this issue next week. Our ambition is to strengthen health insurance and increase financial security in the event of illness. Another issue on which we are working, where we will have to start a job, is sickness benefit. We currently have the most restrictive rules in the OECD with regard to those with permanent work disability close to retirement age. We will have to come back to that.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-362	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. Sweden needs to increase its self-sufficiency of food as well as entrepreneurship in general. In addition, we need to increase the Swedish production of lamb meat. Today we produce only 35% of our consumption in Sweden. It is boring, not only from the point of view of self-sufficiency but also for Swedish lambs bred in a climate-smart way and in a good living environment for animals. In addition, there is an increased demand for lamb meat. In Örebro County, the number of lamb farmers has decreased after several tough attacks on the sheep of the wolf. The county has the highest wolf pressure per square kilometre. In addition, all means have been used to strengthen fences.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-366	Mr President, I would like to It was a question of a very detailed nature. We also have the Minister for Agriculture present. But I will do my utmost to answer as well as possible. It is clear that we have a desire to develop Swedish agriculture, including meat production, via the food strategy. It is for several reasons – nutritional reasons, which Lotta Olsson addresses, but of course also safety and geopolitical reasons as well as climate reasons. It's part of government policy. What applies precisely to the lamb industry in Örebro County I leave unsaid, because unfortunately I cannot answer such detailed questions. But when it comes to Swedish agriculture's meat production in general, it is the government's policy to continue to develop it through the food strategy and other things, for both climate and nutritional reasons and of course also security and self-sufficiency reasons.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-369	Mr President, I would like to My question is to the Minister for Rural Affairs. There are many who are really concerned about the great boar tribe. According to some estimates, wild boars destroy $1 billion in agriculture, and the number of wild boars is increasing enormously. The government went out before Christmas with a message of a powerful boar package. It would come in the spring, and several with me thought: How good – finally something comes here! But I've looked into it, and all I've seen is that the Board of Agriculture should have received 13 million. It also says that the funds can only be used after further decisions by the government. My question is whether it is these 13 million that is the powerful boar package and how it is supposed to be used in the Swedish Board of Agriculture.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-373	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for the question! Finally, I don't think Magnus Oscarsson should think. This is, of course, an issue which was the subject of a number of government proposals and decisions throughout last year. We extended hunting opportunities and commissioned the Swedish Food Safety Agency to investigate how to increase the marketing of game meat, and we handle the re-submitted feeding letter. All of these issues are identified by the industries and industries concerned as perhaps the most important to address this problem. I do not believe that we have had much political agreement on the proposals that have been tabled, nor on the proposals that are on the way – with one exception, and that is the issue of feeding. I can only hope that the Christian Democrats will support this proposal when it lands on Parliament's table shortly.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-376	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan, who also answers general policy questions, and concerns the bombings that we have seen in the Stockholm area. In the last few days there have been attacks both in Husby and Kista, and a few weeks ago there was an attack on Östermalm. As a Stockholmer, of course, you get very worried. We have seen an increase in bombings throughout Sweden in recent years. When organised crime trades knives not only for pistols but now also for bombs, and it affects third parties in a totally unacceptable way, it naturally causes concern among people. The violence is getting close. At the same time, we know that Sweden is basically a fairly safe country. But I believe that we in society must take active action here. I therefore wonder what action the government will take to address the increase in the number of bombings.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-379	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Teres Lindberg, for an urgent question. We have seen it take in Stockholm, but unfortunately it is something that we see throughout our country and an issue that we must take very seriously. Unfortunately, there are no shortcuts. We must continue to strengthen our police authority so that we can both investigate and get hold of those who are doing this, very probably within the framework of organised crime. We must move forward and continue to strengthen our legislation so that there is no doubt as to how serious we view it. We must continue to increase our knowledge of what has led to the developments that we have seen in recent years and how to address this. It is therefore both a question of penalties and of continuing to strengthen the police, but also of gathering more skills so that we can both solve these crimes and prevent new ones. We simply need to use the full power of society to ensure that these ferrets go behind bars, because that is definitely not acceptable.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-383	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed in a report whether men and women are assessed equally in sick leave processes. The review concludes that there are clear differences in the rates of sick leave between men and women. Among other things, the Swedish National Audit Office noted that women diagnosed with mild or moderate mental illness are on sick leave 30 percent more than men. The inappropriate gender gap is particularly evident among younger patients who do not have children, who are highly educated, who have a relatively high income and who work predominantly in male-dominated sectors. My question to the Minister will be why the feminist government has not responded to the Riksdag's announcement almost a year ago about a review of the Social Insurance Fund's decision support.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-386	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm, for the important question! This is, of course, a priority for the government. Equal treatment, impartiality, objectivity and compliance with our constitution must be the basis of all public authority. This presupposes that we have rules that meet the legitimate expectations of financial security in the event of illness. This presupposes that we have regulations that have the necessary flexibility to ensure that all sickness situations are covered by health insurance. Against this background, we have started work that will result in the government receiving proposals on its table next week on the right to sickness benefit. Försäkringskassan has received a number of assignments dealing with development work, not least regarding the sick leave process. Collaboration with the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare is an important issue that concerns the insurance medical data base. All of this will result in health insurance for all those in need of financial security in the event of illness. Let's focus on that.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-391	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Rural Affairs Jennie Nilsson. Under the leadership of the Social Democrats, a long-term food strategy was developed for increased Swedish food production. Now the government has decided on the new action plan, and the next step in the strategy is now being taken. The action plan, developed in cooperation with the actors in the food chain, will lead to increased Swedish food production. Can the Minister develop how the new Food Strategy Action Plan will contribute to jobs and sustainable growth throughout our country? And how will the Minister then follow the regional action plans?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-394	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Malin Larsson, for the question! The food strategy is a very important tool when it comes to strengthening the entire food chain, from primary production to export. I think it is important that the new action plan has enabled us to build on the work done last parliamentary term. It shows both long-termness and perseverance on the part of the government. The new strategy includes a total of SEK 236 million this year for long-term investments that last until 2025. In this context, I would like to emphasise in particular that the issue of profitability is a priority. Here are suggestions and initiatives related to skills supply, regulatory simplification, export and much more. In addition, the Swedish Agency for Growth is tasked with coordinating the national strategy with the regional strategies, which ensures a clearer line and better exchange of work.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-398	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday I woke up to the terrible news that there was another explosion in Sweden. This time it was my old hometown of Norrköping that was hit, not far from the residential area that I have lived in myself. Before Christmas two people were shot dead in a nightclub in Norrköping. This summer a blast caused major damage to several houses in Linköping, and it is a wonder that no one died that time. This is a development that has been running for several years and which now has to be considered everyday in our country. According to Brå, 320 shootings and 257 blasts took place last year. After all, 41 people, many innocents, children and young people died. Despite the seriousness of the issue and the situation, we could read in Expressen the other day that Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren was more concerned about private health insurance than about the killings. It's something amazing.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-402	Mr President, I would like to I want to believe a lot of people. I would also like to think very well of colleagues in the other political parties. I've tried to work in politics over the years. I believe that there is a great deal of concern about this development both in the parliamentary parties and in the government for a very simple reason. It is not something that we want in our country, whether this type of gang crime or rivalry in drug trafficking, which in many cases is about, or for that matter the kind of explosions that we see. I also believe that it is important that we should be able to pool ourselves politically and with the full resources of society to ensure that those who devote their lives to this end are put behind bars. Perhaps they would have another thought at that point, because they destroy not only for all of us but also for themselves. Against this background, I would like to see a little less attempt to score political points and a little more cooperation to make sure the criminals are put behind bars.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-407	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. A factory is now being built in Skellefteå for the production of batteries for electric cars. It is one of Europe's largest industrial establishments. The factory plans to have a total of five production lines. The first two will be operational in early 2021. In addition, the company is planning a large recycling plant for lithium-ion batteries, so that the elements in these can be used again in new production. If we are to reduce CO2 emissions from the transport sector and create sustainable transport systems, emissions must be reduced. This requires the construction of a number of similar battery plants as the one being built in Skellefteå right now. What does the government do to enable more large companies to choose to establish themselves in Sweden and especially in the northern parts, where we have all the possibilities with, among other things, electricity grid capacity and surplus of clean electricity?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-411	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Karlsson, for a very urgent question that I personally also had the privilege of following both as Minister for Energy and now as Minister for Enterprise. Just as Åsa Karlsson says, this is a fantastic development that can help change the climate but of course also contribute to jobs and growth in our country, not least in the northern parts. Properly managed, this can be a very important strategic investment for the whole of Europe, because today Europe is totally dependent on battery production in other parts of the world, which often happens in an unsustainable way. Against this background, we continue to work together with Northvolt, our authorities and our researchers to ensure that Sweden continues to be a strong innovation country where we go in arm hook with the industry for long-term and actual conditions to invest just as Northvolt now chooses to do. I believe that we are only at the beginning of a fantastic development that can save the climate but also create new jobs, economic growth and thus prosperity in our country. It's amazing!
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-416	Mr President, I would like to The emissions of the transport sector must be reduced in order to achieve the objectives set by Parliament. To achieve these objectives, concrete and feasible measures are needed. Unfortunately, they are absent from the Government's climate action plan. Sweden has a mixed fleet of vehicles, and both cars and trucks are needed for companies to function and for rural areas to live. However, a prerequisite for the conversion is that our cars and trucks can be refuelled with renewable fuel. The climate policy action plan lacks the conditions for Sweden's stations to switch to more renewable in the pump. There are no conditions in Sweden to produce renewable fuel through the new fuel factory in Lysekil. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is therefore: Why do the Social Democrats let the Green Party stand in the way of Sweden's important climate ambition?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-420	Mr President, I would like to I thank Åsa Coenraads for the question. It seems to the Moderates nowadays much more important to argue with the Social Democrats and sometimes the Green Party than to actually combat the climate crisis. For the government, it's the other way around. We have introduced a reduction obligation to include biofuels in petrol and diesel. It takes place gradually so that by 2030 we will have a 70% reduction. We have introduced a bonus – malus so that you get bonuses for what is clean and good for the climate and have to pay more for what is not good. We have built electrical infrastructure through the Climate Centre and other things because we see electrification of both cars and trucks. We will continue to create the conditions for doing what the Swedish people basically want. In this work, it would be good if we were more so that we could create long-term conditions for these desirable and necessary investments for the individual and industry. It would be much better to work together than to fight.
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-425	Mr President, I would like to I, too, would like to ask Minister Baylan a question. To achieve the goal of becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country, we must protect the forest, our green gold, in particular. With Greta Thunberg at the forefront, many of the world's young people demonstrate a stronger climate policy. At the same time, many are also fighting for a living countryside and a country that holds together. We must manage a fair transition in which we invest in climate-smart solutions and reduce the gaps between cities and countries. The S-led government has taken several initiatives to secure long-term conditions for biofuels in Sweden. In particular, forest biofuels are forecasting a bright future. According to Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan, how can we cope with the increased climate ambitions and rural transport needs? For example, what role can biorefineries play in the transition?
i-dda6964c8a8cff07-429	Mr President, I would like to I thank Hanna Westerén for a central question. Sweden is well ahead in the climate transition, but the transport sector has proved to be tough. Then what have we done? I just told you about the introduction of the reduction obligation, precisely in order to create a market for biofuel production. BONUS – malus is another initiative and Klimatklivet is a third. We have fantastic conditions with a vibrant forest industry and paper and pulp industries with residual products that can be used. What was previously seen as waste and problems can today be used to produce biofuels such as biodiesel and biobenzi. What is missing today? In the past, the problem has been that there have been no long-term conditions. We have tried to create this with these measures. What we need to do further is to secure the financing of this type of plant. The technology and the need exist. If we also succeed in funding, we will have more jobs, good growth and climate change adaptation.
