i-d104247e52d4c631-14	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Sjöstedt has asked the Prime Minister whether he intends to work towards the appointment of a government accident commission that reviews all privatisation and market experiments on social functions that have been carried through in recent decades. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I would like to start by saying that I understand parts of the problem picture that the interpeller paints. In the 1990s, a period of liberalisation, opening up to competition, market opening and privatisation began in Sweden and in many other countries. In some cases it was justified and has contributed positively in terms of, for example, supply and accessibility, while in others, citizens feel that there have been deteriorations. For example, there is not a natural market in many parts of our elongated country, and, of course, citizens must be able to trust that important social functions exist and function when they are needed, throughout the country. The government estimates that welfare will need to be provided with substantial resources over the next few years, and it is in everyone's interest that the funds we jointly provide also provide the necessary improvements. In December, the Government appointed a Welfare Commission to analyse, among other things, how the wealth resources are used in the way that provides the most benefit to the population. It is also important for the state to take responsibility in the role of regulator. On 1 January last year they introduced new permit requirements for activities carried out by individual practitioners under the LSS, the Social Services Act and the School Act. With these requirements, we ensure through regulation that private operators in the welfare sector have the conditions for carrying out an activity with good quality t. Jonas Sjöstedt addresses pharmacies, electricity networks, railways and mail in his interpellation. It is true that these sectors are now exposed to competition, in some cases for many years. However, I would like to point out that the State, through its ownership in companies such as Apoteket, Vattenfall, SJ and Postnord, is still an important player in all these areas. Companies with state ownership must act exemplaryly in the area of sustainable entrepreneurship and otherwise act in such a way that they enjoy public confidence. In many cases, the companies in the state portfolio are forerunners in sustainable value creation.
i-d104247e52d4c631-19	Madam President, I would like The other week I went on a night train between Umeå, where I live, and Örebro. I travel by train quite often because I avoid flying within Sweden. In the morning when I woke up just north of Örebro, I went for a cup of coffee in the restaurant car and talked to the staff on the train. We were quite in agreement on the situation on the railways. They were incredibly happy that more and more people choose to ride night trains, but they thought it was difficult with the short-termness, that they do not know how it will be in the future and that the wagons are so worn out that they cook with duct tape instead of buying new ones. They would really like to offer an even better service to those who go. They were hoping for a long-term perspective. Yesterday they got a real cold shower: the line should be closed, because it is procured in a market. It doesn't matter that more and more people go and want to take the train instead of the flight. Now it is the market that applies, and when SJ loses an important part of Norrlandstrafiken for the na t train it will no longer be rational and perhaps not economically justifiable to operate night trains between northern Sweden and Gothenburg. Then it will not be possible to travel between Gothenburg and Åre for the family who want to ski, and the relatives from Skövde will not be able to take the train up to Norrbotten or Västerbotten in the future. This is one of the many examples – we see them almost daily – of how the market is unable to put the common good first. The market is short-term and is unable to think about long-term investments, and this means that important services are being withdrawn for citizens around the country. There are an infinite number of examples of this. If we stick to the railway area, we can see a broken and divided railway maintenance where different private operators will compete to perform completely different parts of the maintenance. With this, long-term and overall responsibility disappears. You are responsible for fixing a specific gear or signal. In the past, they had a responsibility to ensure that the whole system worked and to fix other things that were wrong when they came across it. The lack of railway maintenance is one of several explanations for the considerable delays in Swedish rail traffic and is directly related to the market release of railway maintenance. The question is: was it really so wise to make rail transport and maintenance a market? Was it so wise to turn pharmacies into a market when it turns out that the interest in opening pharmacies is quite small in large parts of Sweden while it is over-established elsewhere? But the most serious of all is that severely ill people get to hear from pharmacies after pharmacies if you really have their medication, because it is not certain that it is profitable to have medicine in stock for severely ill people. This is what we have pharmacies for in the first place – to make sure that people have access to their medicine, isn't it? In some of Sweden, we have had private ambulance service providers who have chosen to close their operations from one day to the next. Ambulance service! It wasn't profitable anymore. We have a liberalised electricity market where private companies would increase competition and lower prices. But they have monopolies on the electricity grids and raised prices instead, and ordinary people have to pay on their electricity bills. This policy has very little support. Recently there was a referendum in Helsingborg to sell out Öresundskraft, the municipal power company. The Helsingborgs voted against. 96% of them voted against. They voted against because they do not want more expensive electricity bills, because they want to be able to take climate responsibility and because they want to have democratic influence. The time has come to reconsider market fundamentalism and liberalisation. To be honest, Madam President, I do not understand the arguments against making a proper evaluation, to see what went wrong and to do it better.
i-d104247e52d4c631-29	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is possible to agree very much on the basis of these privatisations. Jonas Sjöstedt, for example, refers to pharmacies and part of the liberalisation on the rail side. On this we agreed when it was up in this Parliament. We both expressed it and voted against the proposals. We did so for several of the reasons referred to by Jonas Sjöstedt. Basically, it is about providing services and products to all citizens. There is and has been an overconfidence, especially on the right side of this Parliament, that it will be much better if it is private and you play market. To tell you the truth, this may be true in some parts of the country. In any shopping centre in the inner city of Stockholm there are now several different pharmacies. However, if no one feels responsible for providing all the medicines that citizens need, it is only a matter of choice on the surface. Similarly, a number of liberalisations can be said. The basic problem, as I also say in the interpellation response, is that our country is very different. Take Västerbotten, the county where Jonas Sjöstedt and I have worked together for quite some time. There we have a municipality with 40% of the population and a large number of municipalities with between 2 500 and 4 000 – 5 000 inhabitants. It is clear that the conditions are different, and therefore the desire for establishment among private actors is very different. In Umeå there are certainly a number who want to establish themselves. Into the country there are none at all. Whatever the case – the criticism we have had and expressed together in this House is in the Minutes – we are now in a position to deal with the reality we have. We will then have to ensure, through regulations and improvements, that we can still guarantee these services to our citizens. However, there is a difference between me and Jonas Sjöstedt. Just as I do not share the right's belief that privatisation is always the best, so I do not think it is always best for the state to take care of things and that the market cannot take care of certain things. I think that, basically, we need to be pragmatic in the situation where we are. Take the train traffic, which Jonas Sjöstedt is talking about. After all, I was chairman of Parliament's Transport Committee when that discussion took place, and I was equally critical of how liberalisation should be managed. But now it is here, and I have to say that the development we have seen – that more and more people want to go by train and send their goods by train – is basically positive. But it is clear that many of the problems we have in the area of rail transport have to do with the fact that somewhere in the mid-80s it was decided that it was no longer worth or profitable to invest in tracks in our country. This in turn has, of course, worked both on the tracks and has meant that we can no longer meet the very strong demand of our citizens and our companies for rail transport. What can you do? Well, you can do as this government has done: increase investment in trains, want to build new main roads and increase investments in maintenance so that we actually – and this should also please Jonas Sjöstedt – have higher punctuality now compared to five years ago. That's good. It's not enough, but it's good. We can also ensure that we gather around the financing of new main roads in our country so that both people and goods can arrive, regardless of which company they choose to ride on these tracks. Of course, there are problems with privatisation, but there is not the whole challenge.
i-d104247e52d4c631-38	Madam President, I would like You can sum up the Minister for Economic Affairs' answer like this: Well, this is boring, but I don't think we're going to do anything about it. You do not even want to find out how it went, let alone propose any changes in the future to ensure that this activity works. I mean, that's not enough. Of course, it is possible to increase joint responsibility if you want to do so. In Hamburg, the electricity grid has been restored. Chile has removed the interest in profit from school. In the UK, parts of the railway service have been withdrawn because it works better if you want the service to work for ordinary people. But in Sweden the government does not even want a Commission that goes through what went wrong to see if it can be done better. Madam President, I would like This is particularly serious in parts of welfare. Sweden is unique in terms of the possibility for single care providers and single school owners to start businesses and stop taxpayers' money directly in their own pocket. It has huge consequences for the Swedish education system, for health care and for elderly care. We are a country where schools can go bankrupt and close down from one day to another and then just roll over the responsibility of the municipalities. We are a country where private workers in the care of the elderly have put in a system to sub-manage the departments of the dementia so that nurses and assistants can run faster, all to enrich themselves. You let people and our elders pay the price for your own greed. We see how privatisation and the interest in profit in healthcare lead to dramatic cost increases, for example in Stockholm County Council. Sweden's only private obstetrician, BB Sophia, went bankrupt – or they didn't go bankrupt, but they chose to quit the business because it wasn't profitable enough. This deepened the lack of places in maternity care in Stockholm. In Västerbotten, as the Minister mentioned, we see how the private skiers choose to lie down in the coastal country, where people live. The county council then has to pay for everyone and tries to pull ambulances and health centres into the interior, where people have a long way to go to medical care. People throughout the country have the right to expect functioning communications, healthcare, school, care for the elderly and other things. If the pursuit of profit stands in the way of it, then you have to do something about it. The mere disappearance of billions of money that would go to nurses and teachers and instead end up in the pockets of various venture capital companies and short-term stakeholders means that we are missing out on a lot of staff that could take care of students and help them with math tasks they do not understand or have time to go out with the elderly in the retirement home. Instead, money runs away, and inequality increases. More and more, it becomes the responsibility of individuals to ensure that their children are allowed to go to a good school because not all schools are good and that their mother is doing well in the retirement home and avoids that really bad housing – instead of being a joint responsibility. What, then, is the government's response? Well, the government's response is to make a promise not to do anything about this throughout the term of office, not to make any proposals to do anything about it. One moment you can rage against the prize hunt in school, against the way the private actors behave when they are rogue and against the money disappearing. In practice, in the next few minutes, an agreement has been signed which renounces any possibility that Sweden, like most other countries, should ensure that quality and care for taxpayers' money goes before short-term profit hunting in welfare.
i-d104247e52d4c631-49	Madam President, I would like Now the left-wing leader is in the speaker's chair trying to sound radical, well aware that what he is proposing is a Commission. The Commission is in fashion right now. In the past year alone, a number of parliamentary parties have proposed commissions for everything from what we now hear about the privatisation of markets to the running costs of hirers, Gui Minhai, a Truth Commission for the Sami people, a Book Crisis Commission, a Commission for the Transport Agency and so on. It is clear that if you think that is what brings about change, then it is easy to take that kind of action. But for the government it is not enough just to go through this, because it has been reviewed. We are well aware of some of these shortcomings. The government's way of dealing with it is to make sure to change in the area by area. Take some of the examples mentioned by Jonas Sjöstedt. The power grid is one. We have changed the regulation there. Hundreds of thousands of households will have lower electricity grid costs because the government has made sure to cut the ceilings for the companies' actions. It's the same with the train tracks. We have increased investment in rail maintenance. We want to build new main roads to ensure that the trains arrive both on time and on time and also meet the very positive demand of the Swedish people for several reasons. In welfare, we have made a number of changes. Both in my previous role as Minister of Education and in opposition here in Parliament, I have pointed out the absurdity of the fact that it was easy to obtain permission to run a school and then, as Jonas Sjöstedt describes, when it is not profitable just to lay down and pass on responsibility to the public. We are now making demands on who gets to start school. We also made, and Jonas Sjöstedt is well aware of this, an attempt to change these rules during the last parliamentary term. The reason why there is no more there is that the parties in this Parliament that Jonas Sjöstedt is now working with, M and KD and the Swedish Democrats, essentially say no to any tightening up even though they are obviously needed. The lack of further needed changes, such as in the school system, is not due to the government's unwillingness to make them. This is because there is no majority for it in the Swedish parliament – and this in turn depends on the result of the election, Jonas Sjöstedt. During the last parliamentary term, we tried together, but in these times when you have new friends, it may not be something you want to know. It is better to sound radical but, in practice, to be aware that what will solve this is not another Commission but another majority in the Swedish Parliament. For that we need a new election result, Madam President. Then, Madam President, I do not share Jonas Sjöstedt's view that all privatisations are always evil or wrong. There are also areas where it has actually been a natural development. Take, for example, the telecommunications sector, where it works. I find it extremely difficult to see that we could have maintained the regulated and monopolistic situation that we had before. However, as a Social Democrat and Minister for Enterprise, I believe that what we are doing and what we are going to do is gradually addressing the shortcomings and problems that obviously exist, not least the unevenness of the country. What Jonas Sjöstedt is talking about, namely that we, as a society, should guarantee the kind of services and services that our citizens need in order to live a good life, we fully agree on. We also agree that it is not so fully in our country as a whole, and we shall change this step by step.
i-d104247e52d4c631-60	Madam President, I would like Anyone who doesn't learn from past mistakes is doomed to do them over again and again. That is also the case with this government. The Freedom of Choice Act was used in the Public Employment Service for the system of so-called establishment slots. How'd it go? It led to organized crime and bribery. When there were attempts at IS recruitment in this activity, it ceased, and Arbetsförmedlingen stopped having start-up slots. What's the government doing? The Freedom of Choice Act is being developed to privatise large parts of the actual work of the Employment Service, and it is being fought and upset that a system that has already failed is not being used. They have ended up to the right of both the Moderates and the Christian Democrats in their eagerness to break up Arbetsförmedlingen's operations and privatise it. It says something about our time, Madam President, when we have a Social Democratic government that ends up on the right of the Moderates on issues of privatisation. So a Commission may not be so stupid to learn from past mistakes. But, of course, we have the proposals too. It is about actually removing the profit hunt in welfare and not, as the government has done, promising not to remove the profit hunt in welfare these years. It is a question of ending the dismemberment of railway maintenance and of having a coherent common organisation, which the government delayed the years in which we negotiated with them during the last parliamentary term. We have a proposal to make sure that the National Railways have priority on the tracks and traffic obligations throughout Sweden so that we have a railway for people's sake, not for private companies' sake. This is not in contrast to having complementary players. We have the proposals that would ensure that there were medicines throughout the country. But as with many other things, it is about rhetoric. It is when it is the election movement that the Social Democrats speak against privatisation. But you don't even want to go through the past mistakes you have made to correct them in the future. We in the Left Party would like to see that done.
i-d104247e52d4c631-66	Madam President, I would like The difference between us, Jonas Sjöstedt, is that we Social Democrats see the election result we have and know what parliament we have. For us it is always important that we can take steps forward even when we have to compromise with other parties. And compromises will be required of all parties. If you do not reach up to 50 per cent in this Parliament, as it has been a long time since anyone did – it was the 1968 Social Democrats – you need to cooperate with others in order to take steps forward and address these shortcomings. One can also be content, as the Left Party often does, to stand with a placard alongside it and say: We are right in everything, and we have a stock exchange that is completely inexhaustible. But in reality, Jonas Sjöstedt, we still have to deal with the political realities, namely what this Parliament looks like. That is the one that is putting an end to the regulation of the hunt for profit, which we were talking about. It did so in the last parliamentary term, when we tried together, and it does during this parliamentary term. If you can convince your new friends in the Moderates and Christian Democrats to make this change, I can promise you that together we will accomplish this. However, something makes me doubt it. But I'll try if you want to achieve something practical and not just sound radical, Jonas Sjöstedt. Finally, Madam President, I note that over the years I have had a great deal to do with Jonas Sjöstedt. We had a period when we debated and discussed a lot of European issues. At the time, Jonas Sjöstedt was both European and EMU opponents, and I was in favour of both. Let us say that perhaps it was fifty-fifty; perhaps I was wrong about EMU and Jonas Sjöstedt about the EU. Maybe we've changed our minds there. Now Jonas Sjöstedt will stop. He's moving to one-party Vietnam, and I read in the media that he seems to be into starting a private café business there. I wish him every success in this and thank him for these years too. Although we have not always agreed, there has never been any doubt about what Jonas Sjöstedt wants, and he has always wanted well for the country, for Umeå and, of course, for his own party. Many thanks for these years, Jonas Sjöstedt!
i-d104247e52d4c631-71	Madam President, I would like Eric Palmqvist has asked me how the work on simplifying and shortening the permit processes for the mining and mineral industry is proceeding in accordance with the Riksdag's announcement and whether the government is working extensively on permit issues so that the conditions for other industries are also addressed as a consequence of the announcement. Swedish mining and mineral industries are of great importance to Sweden as a country, but also in the regional and local perspective and indeed beyond Sweden's borders. It is about jobs, welfare and the development of new technologies for green transition, and also about taking into account that ensures a good and healthy environment nationally and globally. Sweden's raw material resources should be used more efficiently and sustainably. Review processes and regulations need to be reviewed to take account of both societal and local environmental impacts when testing a project. There is a need to ensure more efficient and predictable licensing processes. In examining a project, it is important that better account is taken of both the project's local environmental impact and its social benefits, that a larger proportion of the value generated by the mining and minerals industry can benefit the whole country and that it is ensured that rogue operators do not pass on costs to the general public. The Government intends to set up an investigation to review how the mineral law can be adjusted to create predictability in the processes without compromising either fundamental environmental values or the rights of indigenous peoples. The review will ensure that Sweden can be a leading country for sustainable development in the mining industry. In order to review possible efficiency measures regarding the permit testing according to the Environmental Code, the Ministry's Memorandum Adapted Environmental Assessment for a Green Conversion was developed within the Government Office. The memorandum's proposal is now being prepared. Part of this is the commission placed on the National Courts and County Administrative Boards to be able to produce information about the permit review as of this year. The data shall be reported to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which shall be responsible for receiving, compiling, analysing and presenting the statistics. A comprehensive set of statistics is important to see how long the processing actually takes and whether it differs in different parts of the country. In addition, the Climate Action Plan announces an investigation aimed at achieving a more effective and effective environmental test that enables a faster transition to fossil freedom. The purpose of the investigation is to review, among other things, the possibilities to make it easier for the industry to contribute to the transformation. The work to create more efficient and predictable permit processes for both the mining and mineral industries and the industry as a whole is thus ongoing in several parallel processes.
i-d104247e52d4c631-79	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Minister for Enterprise for sticking around and answering my interpellation! The answer is largely what I had expected, and in this context it is positive. It contained a lot of good. What's troubling is that it's running out of time. We do not see any solutions to the issue of the permit process around the corner. However, it is my view, or should I say the hope, that the Minister for Economic Affairs has an honest and sincere ambition to overcome the problems that unfortunately characterise the licensing processes relating to the mining and minerals industry. The Swedish mining and mineral industry, as the Minister points out, is of great importance to Sweden as an export-dependent industry nation. It is about jobs, welfare, innovation and raw materials supply to enable the development of new technologies in order to move towards a future society where greater environmental considerations are taken into account. Nor should we forget the strategically important mineral supply at a time when other and new minerals are being demanded as a consequence of Western efforts to electrify to a greater extent. The value chains created when our ore and minerals are refined into highly specialized end products help to create our prosperity. Sweden has a centuries-old tradition as a mining nation, and today we are at the absolute forefront of environmentally friendly mining production and technology development. This is something we should be proud of and take care of. Unfortunately, troubled clouds have slipped into the Swedish mining sky, and virtually the entire mining industry describes that unclear and slow state processes are their biggest problem and have been so for a long time without the government having acted. The licensing processes that are a prerequisite for starting exploration or for granting a processing concession are perceived as unclear, lengthy, legally insecure and lack of transparency. Some companies– I'm sure the Minister knows some of the worst cases – have lived in uncertainty for six to eight years or longer without being given a final reply. The fact that this leads to Sweden getting a bad reputation as a nation where it is difficult and uncertain to invest and establish itself is extremely bad and may harm us in the long term. In fact, Sweden falls in the ranking when various mining nations are ranked according to investment activity. This is something that should worry the Minister for Economic Affairs. I have a very positive basic view of the mining industry, and it may not be a secret. I recognize its historical significance, its future potential and its importance in securing our welfare. I know that not everyone shares my enthusiasm, but the fact is that the tough and unpredictable state of affairs processes are also very destructive and demoralising for the owners who are critical of mining establishments. Many times it is about other traders, such as reindeer husbands and farmers. Even golf facilities and the like can equally depend on clear information in order to plan for the future of the business. It is thus a barrier both to the mining industry and to the industries that have had a conflict of interest about land use. Madam President, I would like I believe that the Minister for Economic Affairs largely shares my concern and recognises the importance of bringing about a solution. What I cannot help wondering, however, is how it affects the ability of the government to act and the will of one of the government parties to have representatives who, not long ago in this House, said that the mining industry should end.
i-d104247e52d4c631-89	Madam President, I would like Sweden will be the first fossil-free welfare country in the world. It is a fairly high ambition that the government has set up for our country, both because we need to show that it is possible to live a good life without destroying the environment and the only climate we have on this planet and because we believe that it is basically a very wise economic strategy for our country. It will strengthen our competitiveness in a world that will increasingly and as climate challenges arise globally, demand sustainable products and services. For this, Madam President, a large-scale electrification will be necessary, as Mr Palmqvist says. As far as the transport sector is concerned, everyone knows that we are getting more and more out of hybrids and clean electric cars. When it comes to industry, we have a number of Swedish companies – SSAB, LKAB, Vattenfall – who, together with the Swedish Energy Agency, are trying to solve the problems with the fact that today when they produce steel they use large amounts of carbon-based energy, which means that we get huge amounts of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. It's about steel without coal. So there is a will in the area by area, and we are in a very good position. Today, however, it is a dilemma and a problem that many of the minerals and metals required to electrify large-scale are dependent on imports, both in Sweden and in Europe. Unfortunately, we have received reports that some of these minerals and metals, especially rare earth metals, are produced in such a way that ethically and morally cannot be defended. There are reports of child labour, poisoning of rivers and workers poisoned by radiation, etc. Madam President, I would like Against this background, it is important that we can ensure that we create conditions so that Sweden can contribute to this transformation, both in our country and in our neighbourhood. I think it's good and important. While doing so, it is also important to point out that one of the reasons why the Swedish mining industry can assert itself so well, both in terms of profitability and sustainability, is that we have had strict requirements. I believe that it is important now that we move forward and review this regulatory framework that we continue to have fairly strict requirements for what we can do when conducting mining activities. What I am pleased about, Madam President, is that the mining industry is fully on board. I have not met a single representative of the mining industry in Sweden who says that no, we should probably not take into account environmental values or the local conditions. There's a will. On the other hand, doubts about predictability have crept in. There has been a shift in practice, and it is against this background that we are now going to review the regulatory framework and ensure that we get a proposal that is happy to have a broad foundation in the Riksdag. A prerequisite for making large investments in the long term is long-term conditions. If you are going to invest 10– 20 billion, it is good to know that a regulatory framework applies over a long period of time. This work is on its way. The directives for the investigation are currently being processed in the Government Office, and when the preparation is completed, it is also my ambition to present both the directives and the investigator.
i-d104247e52d4c631-97	Madam President, I would like In the party leader's debate on 15 January, the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, said in the speaker's chair that the Green Party is fighting to make Sweden independent of imports of fossil fuels. She then pointed out that my party wanted to allow the Swedish population to remain in a dependence on oil from dictatorships that makes it completely in the hands of what is happening in the Middle East and in Russia. I firmly argue that exactly the same argument can be made when looking at our dependence on imports of minerals, not least in relation to rare and innovation-critical minerals and metals. If you start to consider these raw materials as fuel in all the electric cars that not least the Green Party is talking about, it is difficult to understand that the government has not already taken strong action to ensure that the Swedish mining and mineral industry has the best conditions. How else is electrification going to happen? Where are we going to get all the copper needed for new wiring to electrify our roads and build a functional charging infrastructure? How are you going to build high-speed lines and electrify them unless the ore is broken? How can our automotive industry switch to producing electric cars when we are already totally dependent on the import of a number of minerals, including cobalt from dictatorship China and mines in Congo where children work under appalling conditions? What happens when the Chinese, which have a rapidly growing population that is becoming more and more profitable, decide to supply these metals primarily to their non-delighted automotive industry in order to reduce emissions at home? In the pot, 15 million European jobs lie in the automotive industry. Try it! Madam President, I would like I believe that the government cannot be taken seriously in its talk about climate change and electrification unless at the same time it ensures that the raw materials needed for this are available. In Sweden, no new mines have been established in over ten years, even though we know that the deposits are here. Companies that want to prospect and possibly break them feel opposed, and the government did not act until the Riksdag took hold of the takpin and addressed an announcement to the government to simplify the permit process. To me, this is somewhat incomprehensible. It's politics that doesn't go hand in hand. You say you want to do one thing, but instead of scratching the mane to make it happen, you pour so much gravel into the machinery that it's cutting together. My questions are: Does the Minister take the concerns of the mining industry seriously, and does the government see the whole picture? Will you act to ensure that we continue to be a strong mining nation, or are you prepared to let the wheels, literally, stay as a consequence of one of the government parties having a complicated view of mines in general and everything that rolls in particular?
i-d104247e52d4c631-106	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Eric Palmqvist talks about climate change, because it is not often you get that kind of signal from the Swedish Democrats. On the contrary, it is more common that there are doubtful notes from the Swedish Democrats: Is there any man-affected climate change on earth? When it comes to climate change policy and the measures that need to be taken, Sweden's democrats are generally opposed. They usually vote no. If they are pressured for once, they usually talk about nuclear power, as if it were a solution in a country that is already one of the world's most nuclear-dependent countries. We have nuclear power. 40% of our electricity comes from nuclear power. That's how it's gonna be tomorrow. That will be the case in ten years. Madam President, I would like If you take this seriously and not just use it as a bat, I think it must permeate all policies. For the government it is, and I can reassure Eric Palmqvist by saying: When I talk about the measures we are going to take, I speak for the whole government. The kind of polemic that Eric Palmqvist is now trying to paint a picture of does not exist, but we are working on these directives. We do so with the conviction that it is important to get predictability out. I have a close dialogue with the mining industry, both individual companies and organisations, to ensure that we have a broad review of the regulations. However, I will raise the finger of warning. I think Eric Palmqvist will make a mistake if he thinks it's just a matter of rules. Rules are part of this. Rules are an important part but not the only one. I think it is important to follow up on the implementation of these rules. How does this happen? It is against this background that one should see the mission that the government has given to a number of authorities – they have been given a mission to report actual times, so that we get the facts on the table. Nor do I believe that conflicts of interest should be underestimated – I believe that Eric Palmqvist and the Swedish Democrats make it very easy for themselves. One should not pretend that there are no conflicts of interest. In principle, it is often agreed that it is important that we can produce iron, copper and rare earth metals in our country – I think for my part that it is very important. For example, Sweden already produces 70% of all iron ore in the European Union today, so we are a major mining nation. But one should not pretend that there are no conflicts of interest. I meet property owners who say: Yes, I feel run over. We all know about the protests in Österlen and Småland. You may not be fundamentally opposed to mines, but you wonder: Why do they have to be here? That kind of question comes. We also know that this can sometimes be in direct conflict with other national interests. All of this needs to be balanced so that Sweden can be a strong mining nation, which in a sustainable way can contribute to climate change, but of course also a nation where we ensure that there are strict requirements, so that people do not feel that it is free to do everything possible. I do not feel that the mining companies and the mining industry want to do so. It is against this background, Madam President, that we must do this properly. We must do so in a way that is sustainable over time, and implementation should be in line with the intentions that we then come up with in legislative changes.
i-d104247e52d4c631-115	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Baylan, for your answers! I look forward to seeing both the investigation and the proposals that the government will present in the near future to ensure that the clouds of concern are removed for one of Sweden's most important basic industries, namely the mining and minerals industry. This is extremely important in order to secure our special position as an export nation and a knowledge nation. It is also important from a security policy point of view in a world where we are becoming more people and more people who are getting better living standards, while at the same time calling for us to switch to electric power to make us independent of fossil energy sources. Sweden's importance and role as a mining nation can be ensured, but then the right political decisions need to be made. It sounds to the Minister for Economic Affairs that the ambition exists despite the fact that the problem of licensing processes has been allowed to become so extensive that a majority in this House has made an announcement to the government to present a proposal for a solution. That is why, despite the apparently benevolent attitude of the Minister, I remain concerned and will remain so until I see concrete proposals for solutions that genuinely secure the conditions for this industry to operate successfully in our country. I hope that it is possible for the government to make the necessary decisions to give the Swedish mining industry shorter and clearer permit processes despite the fact that the representatives of one government party more or less regularly question everything what mines are called.
i-d104247e52d4c631-120	Madam President, I would like We are in a changing time, when the need to change to a more sustainable way is great. We are living at a time when geopolitical changes are rapid and the security situation has deteriorated. We are living at a time when pessimism in some parts has gripped both countries and populations. Against this background, Madam President, it is very important that Sweden is a pioneer in demonstrating that it is possible to solve many of these challenges and do so in such a way that it is sustainable for the environment and climate and also good for job creation and economic growth. Madam President, I would like I would say that we have great conditions for this, precisely because we have been careful to set strict environmental requirements and precisely because we have been careful that people should not feel run over. We are also transparent and sustainable in our processes in a democratic perspective. It is basically a question of using our natural resources in a way that allows us to show that it may be possible to transport itself without creating a lot of emissions out in the atmosphere from fossil-based energy. We have forest products that can become biofuels of various kinds. We have a mining industry that, properly managed, in a sustainable way and with respect for local interests can supply minerals and metals that can help in electrification in both the transport sector and our industry. Madam President, I would like Many of these issues are not simple – there are conflicts of interest. But the conditions for our country are good. It is against this background that the government has set the ambition and goal for Sweden to become the first fossil-free welfare country in the world and show that it is possible.
i-d104247e52d4c631-125	Madam President, I would like Mr Bohlin has asked me what national interests I consider appropriate to abolish. In accordance with the January Agreement, which is a substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, a review of national interests is to be carried out. The Government has recently commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the National Antiquarie Office, the Swedish Energy Agency, the Swedish Growth Agency and the Swedish Transport Administration to review their respective claims on areas of national interest. The review will be coordinated by Boverket. The review requires the said authorities to review and specify the criteria for which sites are considered to be of national interest. They will also evaluate whether current national interests correspond to established criteria and assess whether there are grounds for changing the claims. The background is that many of the criteria that are currently used to assess claims in areas of national interest are unclear and do not meet current needs. The system of national interests was founded during a period of political priorities that existed in the 1970s, and society has since undergone major changes. When the national interest system was introduced, only few and unique areas were intended to be considered for identification. It remains a relevant system, but over time the number of sites of national interest has increased, which is a basis for the need for a review. Overall, the review will lead to a significant reduction in the number of claims for sites of national importance and the overall geographical distribution of these sites. The review is limited primarily to those national interests that affect housing construction. It is the responsibility of the authorities to indicate within their fields of activity such areas that they consider to be of national interest. As a minister, I cannot anticipate the work of the authorities, but I would like to await the presentation of the mission. Boverket will report the part of the review that deals with the criteria to the Government by 20 November 2020. The Authority shall report the results of the entire review by 15 September 2021.
i-d104247e52d4c631-132	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. What prompted me to write this rather brief and concise interpellation was the fact that, on several occasions since this investigation was presented in the media, the Government has expressed that today's system of national interests constitutes a brake on construction around the country. We Moderates have been trying to point that out for a long time. My picture of the party represented by the Government, namely the Green Party, is that it is a party that is perhaps one of the strongest defenders of the whole idea of national interests and preferably a strong system of national interests. That's why I get interested when I see such a play and think about what really is behind it. What is the political will? I do not think that this political will is manifesting in a very clear way. I understand that the Government is of the opinion that he cannot anticipate this investigation. But one could imagine that there is a political formulation of problems that underpins this. Then one soon asks: What are the national interests that have been identified from a political point of view as problematic linked to housing construction? If it is not possible to answer even that question, these directives will be rather watered down. It gets more on the theme: Do something! What is the political order? What national interests are creating problems for housing construction around the country? I would like the Council of State to explain this, in the light of the entrances that his party has had on these issues.
i-d104247e52d4c631-137	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are allowed to speak for their own politics. But I have noticed that the Moderates also care about individual interests. The description given by Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin does not match reality. There is a reason why we have given this mission, and that is precisely why we feel that national interests are at risk of opposing other social interests. Then we must also be prepared to review the regulations and their interpretation. Unfortunately, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has also fundamentally misunderstood the mission. It is not a question of removing any national interests, as stated in Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin's interpellation, but of reviewing the criteria set for national interests by the responsible authorities. In our view, it is a question of adapting national interests to today's conditions and to the way in which society today is designed. Since this regulatory framework was introduced, we have seen major societal changes taking place, such as digitalisation, which is fundamentally changing our society, but also climate change, which unfortunately also changes our country in depth. This means that we simply need to look at whether today's interpretation and criteria for national interests are well suited to the challenges and problems we face today. Then we have clarified and specified that this is about housing and the development of our societies, which perhaps Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has also missed. Therefore, this investigation has been addressed to the authorities concerned in relation to national interests that may conflict in terms of the interest in building more housing and developing society. The Moderates can talk, as Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin shows in this interpellation, but they have not acted. During the years that the Moderates led the government work, there were no steps forward. On the contrary, it was added to national interests on the list that already existed. The national interest inquiry has concluded that approximately 46 per cent of Sweden's land area is covered by various forms of national interest. For example, Sweden's Municipalities and Regions have questioned whether it is a reasonable balance. It is also worth remembering that when setting up this system, the idea was that there would be few and unique areas to be identified was of particular interest. The preparatory work on the legislation that we have today also stated that the criteria for national interests need to be reviewed and clarified. That is exactly what we are now asking the Authority to do. We are therefore following exactly the principles that have been laid down in the legislation. I can tell you that Mr Bohlin has not put too much effort into writing this interpellation. It includes a single sentence. There's no evidence or anything like that. Before Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin goes out and demands that I answer which national interests should be removed, which is not even the purpose of the mission, I think he should clarify what the Moderates' attitude is. Do the Moderates have a clear attitude? Do the Moderates and Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin know better than our expert authorities, who have put the criteria in place, which national interests are no longer needed? Let's get some information on that, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin.
i-d104247e52d4c631-147	Madam President, I would like It was a benevolent statement that none of our national interests should be removed. We therefore have the optimal amount of national interests defined today. I do not share this view. I believe that we need to limit the number of national interests. Per Bolund is here and acknowledges part of the problem, namely that half of Sweden's surface area is covered in one way or another by national interests that are in their nature vaguely formulated, spans large geographical areas and prevents residential building. If we want to tackle this problem seriously, we must also be able to say that we may not need the amount of national interests we have today and that we may need a narrower geographical application. But none of this is a direct express order in the government's directives. That is what is at the heart of my criticism, namely that the government announces investigative missions that are so vague in character that they do not necessarily lead forward. There are, I would like to promise, expensive experiences from previous governments – even bourgeois – where one is too unclear from the political level as to what direction one strives for and what one wants to achieve. I think that is exactly what this is about. Today we have a situation where almost the whole of Gotland is protected, and 70 per cent of Jämtland County is made up of a national interest. I believe, then, that the political side must be able to say that this system has gone too far and that it may need to be fundamentally changed. Perhaps we need to remove all national interests and then consider whether we should start with a new bullet, so to speak. I think that the government's directives in these parts are too vague. It is clear that there are areas that need protection from the highest level of society, such as the Swedish Armed Forces' activities. But it cannot be appropriate for us to have so many national interests that today we protect half of Sweden's surface at the expense of, among other things, the conditions for building housing.
i-d104247e52d4c631-153	Madam President, I would like It is extremely telling that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin devotes his entire speech to talking about how easy it is to limit national interests and remove national interests without making a single suggestion on what Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin and the Moderates want to remove. It is very speaking for the Moderates today – very cold weather but very little action. Unlike the Moderates, who Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin also admits, have done nothing about this when they have had the opportunity to influence this, we have entered in the January agreement that we should make regulatory simplifications and that we should make a review of national interests. We now give a clear mandate to the authorities responsible for various forms of national interest that may conflict with increased housing construction, and we also have very clear clarifications: we say that stricter criteria should be developed, that we expect fewer areas covered by national interests and that we want the review to lead to a substantial reduction in both the number of claims for areas of national interest and the overall distribution of these areas. The clarity that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin pretends to ask for is therefore already there. I may find it a bit amusing – to put it mildly – that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin writes an interpellation on a single sentence and comes here and has great claims but without making any own suggestions or having any own opinions. Instead, he only demands this from the government – before we have received the opinion of the authorities, even though Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin knows very well that this is not how you work in a government position. Instead, it gives a mandate to an authority or an investigation, receives the proposals and can then take political decisions. But this is probably the entry of Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin and the Moderates into politics at the moment: to engage in breaking open doors and fighting windmills rather than actually trying to create some kind of movement forward and achieve something in concrete action. If this is what Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin says, that he actually shares my ambition to reduce the spread of national interests, what is it that prevents Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin from supporting the government and welcome this mission going to our authorities? After all, they are the ones who are responsible and have developed the criteria that are currently in force, and now they are also given the task of reducing the scope. Instead, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin is concerned, with the least possible effort, only with questioning. The natural question to the Moderates is where the Moderates stand. Do the Moderates think the mission is wrong and that we should not have commissioned our authorities to reduce national interests? Would it have been better to allow today's situation to continue? If the Moderates now have suggestions for national interests to remove, let's hear them, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin! Tell us which national interests the Moderates have decided to remove and where Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has better bases than our authorities.
i-d104247e52d4c631-158	Madam President, I would like It's usually known that attacks are the best defenses, but I'm sure this line round proves that's not the case. Here is the Swedish Minister of Housing and questions the whole basis of the Interpellation Institute, which is the opportunity for me as a Member of Parliament to ask questions to a Minister of State – not vice versa. It is therefore not problematic that I write a short interpellation and then I can get a reply from the Swedish Minister for Housing. What causes my question, whether there has been any ambiguity in this debate on this matter, is that I think the government is too vague. Yes, I think the government should have said in its directives that it is urgent to reduce the number of national interests. Precisely how this should be done and how it should look can of course be discussed, but I am of the opinion that not only do they spread too much geographically, but they are too many in number, and that the national interests that currently exist are sometimes so vague that they can be used arbitrarily. So it connects to the latter problem, that they use a lot of geographical space. If Bolund had been interested, he would have been able to see that we Moderates have put forward proposals on this in the Swedish Parliament for at least five six years. It's not a secret. However, this institute aims to enable me to ask questions to the Government, not the other way round. I do not think I have received very satisfactory answers. Instead, I am faced with a lull about the length of the interpellation rather than a fruitful debate about what we are really going to come up with. Whether or not the Moderates will support the investigation depends on what it comes to. I am afraid, however, that too little will be found, because the policy approach is too weak in this regard. That, Madam President, is my point.
i-d104247e52d4c631-162	Madam President, I would like As we hear, there are no answers from the Moderates. It is easy to say – order – that we should remove national interests, but the difficult thing is obviously to come up with the concrete measures. From the government's side, we choose to work the opposite way. We choose to have a solid basis before we make decisions, and we choose not to stand here and just decide which areas should be national interests and which should not be – as well as which areas are important as national interests and which are not. I think it is to respect the way we have to govern Sweden in not making decisions through some sort of whim in the speaker's chair or when someone writes an interpellation. I also defend the instrument of interpellation; I think it is important. But it requires a certain amount of respect and that one does not formulate just one sentence. I have responded to many, many interpellations in Parliament, and I have never encountered one as short and inconclusive as Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin's interpellation is. That says something about the commitment to the issue, I would say. I find it sad that the Moderates as a party obviously do not want to take any responsibility for actually implementing things in Swedish politics in some form of consensus. It does not want to try to hook arms and cooperate on politics at all, but chooses to distance itself from the mission to our authorities that is actually ordered to lead to a reduced level of national interests and a reduced geographical spread. Instead, we are talking about some kind of vague mission to remove the number of national interests – a mission that the Moderates obviously cannot define on their own either. I think this is a bad way of doing politics, and I regret that. Instead, the Government, in cooperation with other parties in the Swedish Parliament, chooses to develop a concrete mission for our authorities – the authorities that also have responsibility for national interests in their areas, which have set the criteria for national interests and which are thus best placed to review them – to reduce them significantly in number and extent. It is something that the Moderates should welcome, but unfortunately the Moderates are not that party.
i-d104247e52d4c631-167	Madam President, I would like Lars Adaktusson has asked me how I and the government see Sweden and/ or the EU taking action, including increased sanctions, in view of the shooting down of the Ukrainian passenger plane. Mr Arin has asked me how it should be ensured that Sweden has complete insight into the ongoing investigation of the accident and what I and the government are doing to ensure that the relatives receive full compensation from Iran. I reply to the interpellations in a context. Since Iran has acknowledged that the shooting took place by mistake and has taken the blame for this, the Iranian Government and the Iranian authorities have cooperated constructively with the countries whose inhabitants were killed. It is about Afghanistan, Canada, the United Kingdom, Sweden and Ukraine. The foreign ministers of these countries have set up a group to coordinate measures for the benefit of relatives and other victims of the shooting. I am actively involved in the group's work. Both the Prime Minister and I have been in direct contact with our counterparts in the countries concerned, including Iran, in order to promote a thorough and transparent investigation, ensure full transparency in the investigation of the national expertise of the countries affected and to ensure that Iran takes full responsibility also in relation to those affected. The international regulatory framework provides that the accident investigation is to be conducted and led by the State in which the accident occurred, in this case Iran. The State in which the airline belonged, i.e. Ukraine, has the right to appoint an accredited representative in the investigation. This also applies to the state in which the aircraft and the engines were manufactured, in this case the USA and France. Other States which have a special interest in an aircraft accident, for example because the State has citizens who have died or been seriously injured in the accident, have the right to appoint an expert in the accident investigation. In Sweden, it is the National Board of Antiquities that appoints such an expert. Afghanistan, Canada and the United Kingdom also have such an opportunity. The relevant investigating authorities in these countries have cooperated well and are continuously exchanging information with Iran, which has strengthened the transparency of the accident investigation. In this case, the experts have been invited to be present when the contents of the black boxes are downloaded. The accredited representatives have more extensive rights. They have the right to access evidence and attend various investigations. The issue of compensation for relatives is a complex and usually lengthy process in a case such as this. It concerns the application of several conventions in the field of air transport and general rules of international law. Our ministerial group has set up a sub-group specifically for these issues. The government's basic position is that all family members affected should receive compensation and be treated equally. I am prepared to say no to Lars Adaktusson's question about restrictive measures against Iran at this stage. As has been shown, Iran has been cooperating. Work on the accident investigation and compensation issues is a top priority right now. We will continue to cooperate closely within the ministerial group and speak with one voice. In the case of sanctions, they shall be dealt with within the framework of the EU sanctions regime.
i-d104247e52d4c631-174	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply to my interpellation. I noted that the Foreign Minister was talking about an accident and about citizens who had been killed. However, this is not an accident; it is a deliberate shooting down of a civil passenger aircraft. These are 167 innocent people, of whom 17 from Sweden, killed by Iranian missiles. In the past, Ann Linde has said that the government condemns the shooting. If this is still the case, it must be followed by action. The government must act against the Iranian regime. Madam President, I would like There is a meaningful parallel in this context. On 17 July 2014, Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 was shot down over eastern Ukraine, and 298 people were killed. The plane was hit by a Russian robot, fired from Russian controlled area. Five days after the shooting, EU foreign ministers declared that those who contributed directly or indirectly to the shooting must be held responsible. At the same Foreign Minister's meeting on 22 July 2014, it was decided to prepare sanctions against Russia. Just a few weeks later, on August 6, the implementation of the extended sanctions that had been decided on began. The Dutch Government was the driving force behind this process. The Netherlands was the country that had lost most citizens in the shooting of the MH17. What we saw was a national government that took on an important leadership, which did not content itself with words and which, through determined work, brought all EU countries into the decision on sanctions. Madam President, I would like The rapid reaction to Russia in 2014 shows that EU sanctions must not at all be a later issue, as the Foreign Minister said in the current case with Iran. The strong actions of the Netherlands show that the Swedish Government could have done far more in the EU context than has been done. The government could have pushed for sanctions against those responsible in Iran. The Foreign Minister now chooses instead to say no to increased sanctions on the grounds that Iran, as it is said, is showing cooperation in the work of the accident investigation. With all due respect, how is this relevant? The need for sanctions is, of course, linked to the regime's responsibility for the shooting and the death of 167 innocent people, not to the way in which the accident investigation is conducted. Or does the Foreign Minister mean that if only the investigation is handled as it should be, no action is needed against the Iranian regime?
i-9izGiYAUDeuDR1z7hP7iaJ	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde for your answer. It was on 8 January, Madam President, about 6 a.m. Irish time or Swedish time – now I do not remember myself. I remember lying in bed and waking up in the morning and seeing a flash from Aftonbladet that an airplane had crashed in Iran. The first thought that struck me, like many Swedes with Iranian influence, was: Do I know anyone on the plane? Then the phone started to ring. It was 24 hours when I had a lump in my stomach. Somewhere I felt that I was not touched, but I felt with them somewhere in Sweden that was affected and who had a relative on the plane – today they had lost a relative. The aftergame started quickly. Iran tried to put the lid on it. There was talk of engine failure and other things-- I don't know all the technical terms. It took them three days before they confessed, when evidence came. It was primarily Canada that pushed – Canada is the country that lost the most citizens in this plane crash, which killed 176 people. Turns out the plane had been shot down by two anti-aircraft missiles from the Iranian Revolutionary Guard. I am talking about the IRGC because Iran has two military forces. We're not talking about the Iranian army. We're talking about the Revolutionary Guard. It is they who are linked to the regime. They were the ones who went out, they're the ones who've held all the press conferences and it was from their base the two anti-aircraft missiles were shot. Madam President, I would like We were in the Great Church and met many of the relatives. It's so bad that there's a 17- or 18-year-old girl out in Järfälla-- it's been written about her in the paper-- who had her mother as her only relative, and her mother was on the plane. My question is: What is Sweden doing to ensure that we have complete insight into the work of the Commission? Just four five days ago, some form of sound recordings leaked from the tachograph or the black box. Iran wanted to suspend cooperation with Ukraine. There was pressure, however, and now Ukraine has been welcomed back. It's a lot of back and forth. Iran is not very cooperative. Iran does not approve of two citizenships. Now, Madam President, the Foreign Minister is taking a diplomatic passport, but if she were to go civilian, she could get a visa at the embassy. I must not – I also have Iranian citizenship, which I have inherited from my parents. To get out of the country, I have to use my Swedish passport. This means that the Swedish citizens who have died in this air crash – in this aircraft shooting – are not considered Swedish citizens by the Iranian authorities. There has been pressure from the Iranian authorities to bury these people in Iran. They have also been buried in Iran, and relatives do not bring home the bodies of the dead. Compensation shall not be given in Swedish kronor – or in Canadian dollars or equivalent for the country in which you live – but shall be paid in Iranian currency. The Iranian currency fluctuates and crashes against foreign currencies day after day. Then my question is: what is Sweden doing for its citizens? It was not only Swedish citizens who were on the plane – we also had people based in Sweden, i.e. probably future Swedish citizens with a permanent residence permit – but what does Sweden do to ensure that relatives of those who were Swedish citizens should receive a fair compensation in Swedish kronor and be able to take home the bodies that have been buried against their will and be able to bury them here in Sweden?
i-d104247e52d4c631-191	Madam President, I would like I can start by saying to Lars Adaktusson that there were even many more who were killed than Lars Adaktusson said – there were 176 people, not 167. Lars Adaktusson pointed out that immediately after the Russian launch of the MH17 passenger aircraft in eastern Ukraine, the EU began discussions on increased sanctions against Russia. At the time, however, the situation was quite different; Russia denied debt and has continued to do so. In the disaster we are now talking about, Iran has acknowledged that the plane was accidentally shot down and blamed. There is no reason to interfere with the very fragile process that we are currently in with the shudder of increased sanctions. The most important thing is that the victims' relatives and the Ukrainian airline have nothing to gain from Sweden doing so. That would be bad for the relatives, and it would probably cause Iran to withdraw from cooperation. Moreover, the Dutch Foreign Minister personally attended our Foreign Minister's meeting and shared the experience gained, and he supported us in the work we are doing. Let me repeat that I am very much prioritising the issue of compensation for relatives, which Mr Arin raised. We are clear that we want the same compensation for all relatives, regardless of which country they come from, and therefore no graduation. We are doing everything in our power to speed up the process. It is an important issue for the ministerial group and other subgroups of lawyers. We have a special group looking at this very thing. I spoke to the Iranian Foreign Minister, Mr Zarif, only last night, and I raised the issue of access to the black box, an independent, transparent investigation and compensation for the victims. Minister Zarif listened and answered all my questions. At the same time, we know that the compensation process is lengthy. However, we continue to have the best interests of family members in mind. So to the question of accident or shooting down: it was a shooting down. The reason we sometimes say accident is that the international conventions regulate what happens in an accident. The investigation commission and the international organisations believe that an accident can also be aware. This conscious shooting can therefore be described as an accident, and international conventions apply. But of course it was a shooting down and nothing else – and a great tragedy for all relatives.
i-d104247e52d4c631-198	Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister says the Iranian regime has confessed. But what kind of confession was that? There were three days of lies and three days of conscious attempts to deceive the world. The confession came reluctantly when the evidence was so overwhelming that there was no longer any possibility of sticking to the lies. It does not inspire confidence, and it does not relieve the Iranian regime of its responsibilities or the outside world of its responsibility to take action. Madam President, I would like Diplomacy and contacts are important elements of foreign policy. But it is also values and human dignity. With abstinence to the Tehran regime, the danger is that diplomacy will clash with the values and that the ambition of good relations outweighs the contempt for human dignity expressed by the Iranian regime in its exercise of power. As far as human rights are concerned, Iran is not in any respect heading in the right direction. On the contrary, governments, including those described as pro-reformists, are more likely today to increase oppression. They have used the creation of the international nuclear agreement for this very purpose. Alarm reports from Amnesty International and other human rights organisations confirm this picture. In other words, Iran is not just any country. It is in itself a ruthless and morally bankrupt system. The lie has long been the established tool of the regime, and we saw what has been said in connection with the shooting on 8 January. The government says that after recognition, the Iranian regime and the authorities have cooperated constructively with affected countries. At the same time, Peter Swaffer, who represents the State Commission on Accidents, says that he is already convinced that the investigation will not be conducted with the openness that Ann Linde, among others, has talked about. In an interview with TT on February 6th, Swaffer says, "No one expects either the Iranian investigator or the rest of us to be in and hold an interview with the military who shot down the plane." It's not likely to assume, it's a little naive. ..................................................... What's the deal? Is it the State Commission for Accidents or the Minister for Foreign Affairs who is right in assessing the cooperation of the Iranian regime?
i-d104247e52d4c631-205	Madam President, I would like In my role as a Member of Parliament in opposition, this is the only tool I have to put questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs or to call the government to account. But, Madam President, at this point it is not a party political issue but a national one. Sweden must be united in this. The main problem is that Iran considers these people to be Iranian citizens. Being a Swedish, Ukrainian or Canadian citizen is secondary and only a matter of having a travel document that allows you to get out of the country, no more than that. I do not know how the selection has been made among the countries concerned, that is, Canada has one role, the United Kingdom has another and Sweden has its small role. Sweden has 10 million inhabitants, and we have good diplomatic relations with many parts of the world. I understand that diplomacy is difficult. You can't just stand there and scream and write debate articles, but it'll be tissed and tassled. I have full respect for how diplomacy works. What will this House and the government say to the relatives? In Canada, for example, the government has paid 25 000 Canadian dollars to the relatives. It's supposed to go to funerals and unforeseen expenses. It's kind of like a bridge. In Sweden we do not have this practice, because here we have our own insurance policies. But not everyone has. Thankfully, we have long been protected from national crises. The last one was the tsunami in 2004. There will be crises, but as few as possible are desirable. But now we're there. Is the 18-year-old girl being sent to social services? I understand it may take time to get compensation. It may take up to five years; I don't know. But what's going on right now? What kind of guarantee do they have? They will be compensated at some point and certainly in Iranian currency. This is what has been communicated. I believe that Sweden can play an important role. I do not want another military conflict in the Middle East. I don't want another Iraq. If we thought Iraq was a problem, the Ira n will be a three or four times bigger problem. It is a nation with two armies, and these are more developed and more knowledgeable than any other country in this region, in the Middle East and at the Persian Gulf. However, I do not want to drag the debate there, but rather how we can ensure that we have transparency. What we know is that Iran does not have the skills and equipment to read the black box. What I understand from third-hand information and what I read is that if data is downloaded errors they can disappear. What is Sweden doing for the black box to be read in Ukraine or France and for the French to read it in the presence of all the countries concerned and Iran so that everyone gets insight, so that the facts come on the table, so that everyone speaks the same language and so that the same facts are communicated? What is the foreign minister, the foreign ministry and the government doing, more than just what I was told in the answer?
i-d104247e52d4c631-214	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that Members of Parliament will of course ask interpellations and questions. That is the whole point of getting information. I can see the genuine commitment of Mr Arin to these issues. It is genuine, and I am happy to answer the questions to the best of my ability. The shooting of the Ukrainian plane PS752 on 8 January is a particularly tragic event. Like I said, 176 people lost their lives. Of these, 17 were resident in Sweden, of which 7 were Swedish citizens. We have condemned the shooting, and it is important that the investigation is now carried out quickly, efficiently and transparently. As I said earlier, Iran, after the first three days of denial, has recognised the shooting and demonstrated its cooperation. We ministers from the five countries affected have worked closely together. We have specific subgroups for each issue. Our staff meet almost daily via telephone, video conference and so on, and we have subgroups of lawyers to follow up on compensation issues and other legal issues. It is now being discussed with those countries that have the right to participate in the investigation of accidents in accordance with existing regulations. France, Ukraine and the United States have accredited representatives. As regards the downloading of black boxes, the Iranian authorities have addressed the US National Transportation Safety Board, NTSB. Sweden, Canada, Afghanistan and the United Kingdom have the right to send experts. The State Accident Commission has done this, and they are now welcome to attend when the black boxes are downloaded. Iran would not have had to do this according to international regulations, but it has decided to do so anyway, as requested by us. In this situation, launching a campaign to increase sanctions against Iran, within the framework of EU cooperation and in the Foreign Affairs Group in which I am involved, would be counterproductive. None of the four other countries, like Sweden, lost citizens during the shooting, have such plans. Our ability to achieve success for the families and make the accident investigation work is something that we want to make progress with in particular. This has nothing to do with values; it has to do with respect for family members – that they should receive compensation and know how it has been done. We also want to see how we can ensure that it does not happen again. Why was airspace not closed, for example, when there is conflict? We want Iran to compensate the relatives. There may be a question of examining the airline's possible liability for damages. One challenge is that different conventions in the field of aviation clash with each other, but we want all family members to receive the same compensation, regardless of their nationality or non-nationality and which country they are. That calls for flexibility on the part of Iran. On the issue of damages, Canada has given the equivalent of SEK 180 000 per family. The idea is that the money should go to the transport of remains and so on.
i-d104247e52d4c631-220	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not answer the question as to why the State Commission for Accidents and its representative make a completely different assessment of the Iranian regime's cooperation from that of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Please use the next line, Minister for Foreign Affairs, to answer this important question! I think many people are wondering why the government has long shown a form of obsessiveness towards Iran. During the last term of office, no less than eight official trips were made between the Government Office of Rosenbad and the Ayatollahs of Tehran. There is probably no country outside the EU that the government representative has visited to the same extent. Last autumn, the Iranian Foreign Minister, Javad Zarif, was invited to Sweden. He was literally embraced by the government and leading Social Democrats. The fact that Zarif is the representative of one of the world's worst dictatorships did not prevent former Foreign Minister Jan Eliasson from publicly calling him my good friend. There were 17 people from Sweden who fell victim to the Iranian rocket launch of the passenger plane on 8 January this year. A total of 176 people were killed. Responsible for this crime is the government of the Islamic Republic of Iran. The responsibility for not allowing what happened to pass without action rests heavily on the Swedish Government. Increased sanctions against the Iranian regime are necessary now.
i-d104247e52d4c631-224	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the detailed reply that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will add to his final speech! That's the information I'm looking for. Yes, Iran cooperates, in part, but there are other things. There is great mistrust of the West and between Europe and Iran when it comes to diplomatic relations. There's one thing-- it's meta. What I will come back to in this House is the follow-up. What is important right now are the 17 Swedes who were on the plane. I do not know if 9 or 10 were Swedish citizens and the rest were based here. This was something that was registered in Sweden, and that is enough for me. What is important is that the family members receive some form of compensation, that they are assisted by the relevant authorities and that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs – if I may give the Foreign Minister a message from the relatives, Madam President – is quick on the ball. I can understand that it is difficult to get a passenger list or something, but if it is a national crisis you have to work 24 hours a day so that everyone gets their call. I understand that it is difficult to find relatives, but there are some who have experienced that it took a little too long. It's very emotional. Many have made good efforts, but we need to get better at this in Sweden. Perhaps it is because we have not gone through as many national crises as we do not have such experiences. I would like to thank you for your answer. I will come back to how Sweden can gain insight into everything from what has happened in the accident to family members receiving compensation and being able to take home the remains. I look forward to answers.
i-d104247e52d4c631-228	Madam President, I would like I want to start with Mr Arin's questions. It was 17 who were resident in Sweden, and 7 were Swedish citizens. They were all registered and had a residence permit. Our consular mission covers all 17 – there is no difference there. We worked 24 hours a day. Our crisis phone was open 24 hours a day, and everyone could call at any time. There was a living person who answered the phone immediately. When it comes to identification, I understand that it may seem to have taken a little while, but it must not be wrong. It can be posted on Google or in some evening newspaper that it applies to some people, but we have to be sure. We cannot make a false death bid to relatives. That is not possible, and so it took us a little longer to say which people were guaranteed to be on the plane. I understand the frustration, but it can't be wrong. I'm continuing on the one-off to Canada. Ukraine has also decided to give a sum to relatives. It is much smaller, but the idea is that it should go to transport costs and other costs. In Sweden we have insurance and the municipalities' responsibility. The municipalities have now in all cases contacted the relatives. Last week, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs arranged a meeting with the relatives of the deceased. They met representatives of various authorities, including the State Commission for Accidents. I was listening, too. Of course, I explained my deepest condolences to the sad and difficult situation they are going through. I also told you about all the work we do and how we continue as long as it takes to find out all the information and for the relatives to be compensated.
i-d104247e52d4c631-232	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat has asked me what measures I intend to take to restore an equal preschool for all children wherever they live. Preschool plays an important role in children's comprehensive development and helps to create a level playing field for school start-up. There are several factors that affect the quality of preschools, such as pedagogical leadership, staff training and opportunities for further training, staff density and the size of children's groups. It is important that all children have access to a high-quality preschool, and that is why the government is targeting different initiatives towards preschool. In the case of children's groups in preschool, the School Act(2010:800) states that the principal must ensure that the children's groups have an appropriate composition and size and that the children are also offered a good environment. S taten's carbon mill has also set benchmarks for group sizes in the comments to the Authority's general advice on m eel compliance in preschool. Since 2016, there has been an investment in smaller children's groups in preschool, and in 2020 the state grant amounts to SEK 1,228 million. The grant is intended for interventions that reduce or counteract an increase in the size of children's groups in preschool. The size of the group shall be the same for most of the day and over time. It is not allowed to use the allowance to create smaller groups of children during a limited part of the day. The Swedish National Agency for Education will monitor and evaluate the effects of the state grant. The refund may be recovered, inter alia, if it has not been used for the purpose for which it has been submitted. Statistics by the National Agency for Education show that children's groups in preschool have decreased sharply in recent years and have not been so small since 1992. During the years 2015 to 2018, the average group of children decreased from 16.7 to 15.4 children per group. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education, both the introduction of the benchmark and the state grant may have led to a decrease in children's groups. This is a positive development which shows that the government's policy has had an effect. As Daniel Riazat mentions, the school law regulates how many hours a municipality is obliged to offer children in preschool. This is a minimum level and the number of hours offered can therefore vary between municipalities. All children in preschool have the right to be seen and have opportunities for play and educational challenges. It is essential that we have an equivalent level of education throughout the country. Issues relating to the quality of preschool are very important. It is therefore closely monitoring the effects of the efforts made and the development of pre-school quality. If the efforts do not lead to improved quality, the government may consider changes to this issue in the future.
i-d104247e52d4c631-239	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The Left Party believes that preschool should be a right and an opportunity for all children. Of course, we share this view with the government. Preschool has long-term positive effects on children's learning and development. Preschools also have an equalizing socio-economic effect; children who come from low-resource families and who may live in class-egregated areas benefit most from a preschool. The determined effort on the Swedish preschool and the entire introduction of the Swedish preschool, which most of us in this Parliament have agreed on and agree on, has been unique and has taken a special position around the world. It is about moving from a care activity to a learning activity as well. In order for this equal preschool to continue, we simply mean that we need to look at the reality that exists. Then the figures presented by the Minister are not enough. We know from reports that the supervisors themselves leave out that the size of children's groups may appear to be smaller, but that at the same time, for example, there are fewer staff per child group. There is also a reduction in the competent staff in preschool. The proportion of qualified persons decreases in terms of both the number of children in preschool and the total number of staff. We have moved away from a situation where the ambition of all our parties has been that a majority of those working in preschool should be trained to work in preschool. Today, the trend is that very many of those who work there do not really have any education related to our preschool activities. In combination with this, it is also planned for cuts in the majority of municipalities. Today, many have premises that are not adapted for pre-school activities. It's too high a noise level. Staff are allowed to work not only as a preschool teacher or nurse, but also as a caretaker and everything else. This ultimately leads to the current situation. It's starting pre-school riots. The pre-colleagues have had enough, in town after city, from Jokkmokk in the north to Malmö in the south, where even demonstrations have been held on this issue and continue to be active. What is the result of this problem of health and safety at work? As a result, the supervisors – who have a woman-dominated profession – stand out when it comes to sick leave. It's about fatigue syndrome. If we compare with large parts of the labour market, this is one of the highest figures. I received answers to a lot of questions, but I do not think that I have received answers to the question of what we should do in real life to ensure that we rebuild an equal and equal preschool where pre-colleagues should not feel that they are not enough.
i-d104247e52d4c631-247	Madam President, I would like We have every reason to be very proud of our Swedish preschool. Take, for example, the PISA survey that came in December last year! It showed great satisfaction that the Swedish students are now learning more than they did three years ago, six years ago and twelve years ago. At the same time, the PISA survey showed that those students who have been admitted to an educationally thought-out preschool for more than a year are on average a full school year ahead of those who have not been allowed to do so. It is also amazing to visit our preschools and see what fantastic and beautiful activities are offered to many children. Madam President, I would like I'm not going to tell you that I share Daniel Riazats's concern about much of what's happening in Swedish preschool. I also get many testimonies about lack of work environment. A few years ago, when I was out meeting preschool teachers and child care workers, I heard much about the need to raise salaries in the activities. Nowadays, questions about the working environment are increasingly being raised. I also share Daniel Riazats's concern about the degree of competence. We have in Swedish schools, and perhaps even more clearly in Swedish preschools, very big problems with lack of trained staff. That shortcoming applies to preschool teachers. We see this particularly in the preschools that are located in areas where children may need preschool at their best. It is often difficult to recruit preschool teachers there. It is also the case that we need another occupational group in preschool, namely well-educated child care workers. In recent years we have been able to see how important it is that the recruitment for the children's and leisure programme at upper secondary school works in such a way that we get many applicants on that edge. I share Daniel Riazats's view that we need to do more together to strengthen the working environment and the state of competence. It is therefore good that the government is working to ensure that there are resources for the municipal sector in general and for preschools in particular. I can ask Daniel Riazat if he can point to a year when preschool has received more government funding than it is now receiving. I am very proud of the statistics that so clearly show that children's groups have decreased. I have a great deal of sympathy for preschool teachers who say they don't recognize it from their everyday lives. But to dismiss statistics that have been produced in an accepted way with these figures is a bit boring to me when we discuss the matter in the Swedish parliament. Let us together, Daniel Riazat, ensure that we can continue to strengthen preschool. It is very important to many children. Let us work together to counter the many forces that are today questioning preschools. They question that you should have good gender education, that children should play in preschool, or on the other hand that children should learn a lot in preschool. There is much to do to strengthen Swedish preschool on the basis of consensus.
i-NUeacwuwU5G4QhfihDmK9b	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education Anna Ekström, for your answer. I can start by saying that there is no doubt that whether we are very close to each other when it comes to the content of preschool, values in preschool, whether we should have gender education or not, or what the mission itself looks like. There is no doubt that the Minister for Education has a good view of these issues. But I also think that it is not enough just to share my concerns, although I am positively surprised that the Minister for Education says she does. Somewhere it is a fact that the Minister, as the highest responsible and representative of the government, must do something to remedy the situation. Let's start with the budget issue. It was asked here if I knew if there had ever been more investment in preschool. We know that huge criticism has been levelled at the government and, in particular, at the Minister for Education in relation to the budget allocation for education in general but specifically for children of lower ages. We saw press conferences where it sounded like it was going to be gold and green forests when it came to the budget. But in the actual figures we saw that funds had not been allocated to the school system except for some small investments. I am pleased that the Minister for Education shares my concern for the working environment. I did not mean in my previous speech to question the statistics. As a former municipal politician, I know that the situation on the floor sometimes does not look like they then look like you when we get a report on it on paper. What I'm saying isn't that the numbers aren't right. The cut for a group of children is said to be smaller according to the statistics. We are talking today about over 30 000 preschool teachers and child care workers who are involved in, for example, the pre-school uprising. They say that's not true in their everyday lives. How many stories from their everyday life should it be needed before we start looking at what it actually looks like? I simply mean that sharing my concerns is not enough. Something needs to be done about the current state of health and safety at work. It's for large groups of children. The benchmark from the National Agency for Education is not binding. This means that you do different things from municipality to municipality. As we are today, a large majority of all municipalities will make cuts in, among other things, preschool. I think it is unreasonable then to continue with the line that it should not be binding what size it should be on the children's groups. I would like to ask the Minister for Education if she is ready to make the benchmarks of binding regulations instead of being voluntary as it is today. Research on the size of children's groups and the number of educators per child group is very clear. This also applies to the connection theory. The Swedish National Agency for Education's recommendations also have an impact on the children and not just on the staff. If the staff are not well, it will not be able to help the children in a way that it really wants to do.
i-d104247e52d4c631-265	Madam President, I would like I can only repeat that the state funding for preschool is unchanged and unchanged. That's 1.2 billion in direct targeted funding for our preschools. It should be aimed at small groups of children in combination with a new benchmark in the Swedish National Agency for Education's comments on the general guidelines. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education's own evaluation, it may have had an effect in the form of decreasing children's groups. I could reverse the discussion about the current situation in Swedish preschool. We live in a country where the great 90th century litters are beginning to have children and, fortunately, many children are born. The Swedish preschool is then in great need of resources and staff. It is therefore wise for the government to provide funds, even though we respect the fact that it is a municipal matter to be responsible for the financing of preschools. It is a wise policy to strengthen pre-school education, strengthen child care training and ensure that more people can go out as child care workers. It is wise policy to ensure that more children's nurses can validate their rich and important experience and take the step of becoming preschool teachers of older ages. It is also wise policy to work with Komvux and professional packages to ensure that we have more child care workers through both full secondary education and professional packages. I don't want to go under the impression that it's a strained situation in many preschools. That is why I say that I share Daniel Riazats's concern. I'm out meeting staff, parents and children in preschool. Only yesterday I was in the Ladybug preschool in Vårby Farm and saw a fantastic business with quite difficult conditions. I am well aware that we will ensure that we strengthen the knowledge results in Sweden properly, lifelong learning will begin in preschool. Therefore, I will ensure that our preschool can continue to be a preschool to be proud of. If I'm gonna make it, I have to be able to bring in two things at once. I must be able to see that the government's efforts have an effect. I must also be able to ensure that I have good contact with the activities so that I know how to strengthen with further efforts. Daniel Riazat asked a specific question about the benchmark. Since I was personally responsible for producing the benchmark when I worked at the Swedish National Agency for Education, I know that what we got from the research community back then – and it's probably the same thing that's going on now – were numbers that were pretty round at the edge. We received the figures 6 - 12 for young children and 9 - 15 for larger children. Madam President, I am taking it from my memory now, so I apologise if there are incorrect figures. The reason we got it was because the researchers so clearly told us that a rigid benchmark can never take into account all the prerequisites of a preschool. For an educational activity at a preschool, the composition of the children's group plays a huge role. It matters very much how many of the children have Swedish as their mother tongue. It matters very much what environment preschool is in. What's the yard look like? Is there a good outdoor environment to play in? The composition of the staff also plays a role. How many are there? What training do they have? What experience do they have? All of this meant that the researchers' strong recommendation to the Swedish National Agency for Education at the time was that this would be a benchmark to aim for. I think it is wise policy, Madam President, not to lock the size of every group of children too hard from a meeting room in Stockholm.
i-d104247e52d4c631-276	Madam President, I would like Once again, thank you for your answer, Minister of Education. I absolutely agree that this issue should not just be about us making rigid decisions from the country's highest decision-making body, Parliament. That is not what this is about. It is about what a large majority of supervisors and staff demand when looking at both the trade unions and their protests and the pre-school uprising that has been around the country. I'm in good contact with them, too. The issue is not that we should have binding benchmarks. It's not about making any decisions that tie up someone to impair their business in any way. It is clear that everyone's needs look different and that there may be a little different numbers around the country, but there must also be a maximum ceiling somewhere. I simply agree with the pre-school uprisings and pre-colleagues and child-careers on this issue. Unfortunately, however, I hear that the government is not ready to change its mind on the matter. When it comes to a preschool to be proud of, it's quite interesting, because that's exactly what the supervisors say. They are proud to be preschool teachers, and they really want to do their best. But they feel that they are no longer enough. They're on their knees. They have too few colleagues, they have too few trained colleagues, they have too many chores and they have too little resources. When it comes to the question of resources, I would like to point out once again that it is obviously positive that we, the Left Party, have now taken the initiative to ensure that the municipalities, against the will of the government, would receive more resources. On the whole, however, the education budget was a great disappointment for all the players affected by it.
i-d104247e52d4c631-281	Madam President, I would like An equal preschool, as it says in Daniel Riazats's interpellation, is a binding headline. Do we today have an equal preschool in Sweden? We have a preschool that I'm proud of, but we have a preschool that needs to do more for all children and students to have learned a lot when they come to school. One thing that we have not touched upon in this interpellation debate is the major efforts made to strengthen language development early in preschool and to do so in a way that is consistent with the educational mission of preschool, which is based on teaching based on play. We are currently investigating how to strengthen the Swedish language preschool and how we can also ensure that more children attend preschool. The statistics speak a merciless language. It shows that the very children who most need preschool – the children of the unemployed, the children of newcomers and the children of parents who do not have a long education – are among the groups where participation in preschool is lowest. So there is much to be done to strengthen an equal preschool. But we also need to move on to ensuring that we have staff for preschool. We need to make sure that more people want to be preschool teachers, that more people want to be child-careers and that more child-careers also go on to become preschool teachers. There is much that needs to be done at the same time. All this, of course, requires resources, and it is therefore positive that the government, well aware that this is a municipal responsibility, contributes to the local economy. But the government also ensures that we have government subsidies which, once again, I would say, are at a level that it is difficult to find the equivalent of when we look at the history of state subsidies. All of this is necessary if we are to have a preschool to be proud of. I am very aware that we must do more, because our Swedish preschool deserves support.
i-d104247e52d4c631-287	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson and Sten Bergheden have asked me about fees for timber warehouses due to the fact that the Swedish Transport Administration has introduced fees for case handling for timber warehouses from the turn of the year. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. According to the current regulations, fees are charged by the Agency when applications are made for measures to be taken in a road area which may adversely affect road safety or be detrimental to the maintenance, operation and operation of the road. I intend to follow the question. It is important that there are good conditions for the forestry industry.
i-d104247e52d4c631-290	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer from the Minister to my interpellation! My questions were: Does the Minister intend to change the road law or the road regulations so that forest owners will not have to pay these new fees for timber warehouses along the public road? Does the Minister intend to act in any other way so that the country's forest owners and rural areas will not suffer these new fees? The Minister answers that he intends to follow the question. I do not think it is an answer, but it is the most passive position we can take on this issue. It is interesting and a bit of curiosity in the answer we get from the minister that he manages to confuse me and Jan Ericson, who have written various interpellations. Both are called Jan Bergheden. I hope the Minister has a better understanding of this issue than our names. Madam President, I would like That's good, but it won't be enough. And there are absolutely no answers to my questions. I asked the Minister about a month ago, on 16 January, in Parliament. At the time, the Minister was surprised at the new charges, and then it also sounded to the Minister that he thought the matter was important and that he should act. Madam President, I would like Today, a month later, nothing has happened. But the Minister intends to follow the question. The Finnish Transport Agency and the country's forest owners have not previously had to pay this fee. The permit came to 2012, and you have not previously had to pay 2,900 SEK to put up timber along the public road. For me, rural policy is really important. Then you cannot increase charges and taxes and reduce the regulatory framework for rural areas and then think that it is enough to talk well about rural areas. Madam President, I would like These new timber fees are not needed and should never have been introduced by 1 January 2020. They should now be removed immediately. These permits have been free of charge and should, of course, remain so. This is a new fee and penalty tax for the country's forest owners and for the countryside. The remarkable thing is that the Minister and the Government do not even seem to have known that it has been introduced. And worst of all, the government has no intention of doing anything. Madam President, I would like The Minister has every opportunity to adjust the regulatory letter to the authority, in this case the Swedish Transport Administration. He also has full opportunity to adjust laws and regulations. But the Minister answers that he is following the question. Is that a powerful move? No, I don't think so. This government is prepared to sacrifice the countryside to discourage lorries and road transport. Madam President, I would like At the same time as new charges are introduced for the use of public roads, the government is planning an unprofitable high-speed train. Everyone knows that the S-government's proposal to build unprofitable high-speed trains will affect the extension and renovation of both roads and railways for a long time. The losses will be borne by taxpayers. However, penalising the countryside and forest owners with new permit fees to temporarily lay timber along public roads is a completely new opportunity for the government. Make sure to bet on our roads instead! Make sure that Sweden works so that we can build our wealth and our export earnings can continue! My question is once again: does the Minister intend to change the road law and the road regulations, or does the Minister intend to act in any other way to remove these charges for the country's forest owners?
i-d104247e52d4c631-301	Madam President, I would like It is a good thing to thank the Government for the answer, so let me start with that. But what about the answer? Rarely has an interpellation response been as short and bland as this. Ten lines of text is all the Government has cost on my question; it is obviously not more important than that. In fact, I do not think I have had such a short answer to an interpellation during my almost 14 years as a Member of Parliament. I really wonder if the country's small forest owners agree that the issue is so insignificant. Today everyone is talking warmly about green industries, how to use more biofuels and build more in wood and how much the forest industry means for the Swedish economy and Swedish exports. And then we haven't even touched on the environmental benefits of the forest. At the same time, an almost incomprehensible attack is taking place on the Swedish forestry industry from the government and its authorities. I usually call it the tyranny of the small ladders. We see how authorities in different ways counteract all felling in large areas for environmental reasons without compensating landowners. Not infrequently, it is about forests that have been nurtured and cultivated for generations. However, when the forest becomes ripe for felling, it is indirectly stopped by the authorities – without compensation. We see ever-increasing fuel prices that make harvesting and transportation more expensive. Moreover, we are constantly living under the threat of truck taxes that would drive up costs even further. And then I have not even mentioned all the other decisions that are anti-rural to all the people who live and work in the countryside. Without these rural people, there is no one who can work in the green industries. As if this were not enough, the news that Trafikverket has introduced a fee of SEK 2,900 for each permit to place timber on its own land in connection with public roads pending transport to the sawmill or pulp mill. In the past, apparently, there was an opportunity to be exempted from this levy, but that exemption has now been abolished. When I have told you about this new fee for acquaintances who own small forest shifts, they have first thought that I made it up. Then, when they realize that it is true, the surprise has been replaced by anger. Unfortunately, I have to say to the Minister that it may not be entirely excluded that one or other forest owners around the country might refrain from both applying for authorisation and paying the fee for the warehouse. A fee of SEK 2,900 hardly means so much to a large forest owner as state-owned Sveaskog, but for a small forest owner it can eat up a large part of the profit. The average forest owner in Sweden does not own giant areas, and in case of thinning or clearing after a storm, there are often no large amounts of wood that is taken out. After the cost of the work, there is often not much money left. In fact, with the new levy, there is a risk that less thinning or clearing after storm damage is simply not carried out because the costs may exceed the revenue. The only answer from the Minister for Infrastructure is that the Swedish Transport Administration's fee is based on current regulations. We'll have to hope so. The opposite would have been remarkable. Otherwise, the Minister says that he himself intends, as it is said, to follow the matter. The only thing we know with certainty when a minister intends to follow a question is that unfortunately it rarely leads to any change at all. The Minister might as well have said that he doesn't care and that the Finnish Transport Administration can do what they want. Madam President, I would like It may seem silly to demand an interpellation debate on a fee of SEK 2,900. But it is actually an illustrative example when discussing the great hunt for small businesses and households in our Swedish countryside. The fact is that today's government is extremely inventive in introducing new taxes and charges, bureaucracy, rules, controls and costs, and this approach unfortunately also seems to permeate the government's authorities. Every single thing, every new rule, form or control, every new small cost or tax or supervisory fee may not spoil the finances of a small business or a private individual. But when you put it all together, the situation gradually becomes completely untenable. So my direct question to the Minister is: does he think the new charge is reasonable, or does he intend to work towards its abolition? I would like a clear answer to that.
i-d104247e52d4c631-311	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sten Bergheden and Jan Ericson, for your two excellent interpellations! Of course, the question that arises when you hear the Government's: Who controls Sweden? Madam President, I would like Who controls Sweden? I think that question is very relevant. Two straight questions have been asked in two interpellations. My colleagues ask the Government: Does the Government consider this fee to be reasonable, or do they intend to remove it? The answer is: The Finnish Transport Agency has introduced the fee, and I follow the trend. It is, as Jan Ericson says, a non-answer that is unprecedented. My county Gävleborg is a forest county with, just as Jan Ericson mentioned, very many small forest owners. It is not uncommon that there is an older couple who have saved up and owns forests and who pick out some forest from time to time. I have heard that an average felling is worth 30 000 – 40 000 kroner. Then the government authority imposes a fee of nearly SEK 3 000, i.e. 10 percent of the value of the goods. Then you have to deal with it. Sweden has a government and a minister responsible for their authority. The least you can ask, Madam President, is that the Government has an opinion: do you think the fee is good, or do you think the fee is bad? If you think it's good, the government doesn't have to act. However, it is considered that the fee is poor, another penalty tax on Sweden's small businesses and another regulatory problem, it is appropriate to order the authority to remove it. The government has all the power to write regulatory letters to its authorities – the whole power. Now it's just like the Minister's willless. There is no opinion on such an important issue. In the last five years, the pressure on Sweden's small businesses has been tightened. You make the rule by the rule, you raise taxes and you make it harder and harder to be an entrepreneur. In this sense, this fee is logical. Now someone has come up with: We squeeze Greta from Hälsingland, 78 years old, that fell some forest. She has to pay an extra fee of almost $5,000. It doesn't make sense. Add the truck tax that has been introduced. The difference between the Moderates' and the Government's budget is approximately 80 000 SEK per year and a truck for a forester in Gävleborg. Those of us who want to protect forests and the competitiveness of the business community must constantly stand up in order not to impose higher costs and more complicated rules, because it impairs Swedish competitiveness. For every little thing we do, our friends in Finland can smile. They are protecting their forest industry. They safeguard competitiveness. I would like the Government to answer the simple question: does the Government think that this fee is reasonable? If he thinks it's reasonable, we know it. But if he thinks it is unreasonable, what does the government intend to do to ensure that the fee is removed?
i-d104247e52d4c631-320	Madam President, I would like Since in my professional life I have worked with timber transport from forest to road, I want to give my picture of these now so talked about permits that the government wants us to apply to put timber on the road. I do not think we are very many among the 349 elected MPs who have actually been in a forest machine at some point. I myself drove the machine until March 2013. In the last millennium, when I started operating machinery, and even in the first decade of this millennium, we forest machine drivers were able to judge the suitability of a layover on a road. When the alliance government began to demand permission in 2012, the message to us who worked on it physically out in the terrain and who never really understood why they were introduced that we could continue as before. So the condition did not affect me at all when I was in the machine. It was a bureaucratic process that led to extra work for officials in the office. It also meant an additional fee for the company. However, the condition never had any impact. The fee affected the forest company and not us who did the work, not really the landowner. It is a classic example of unnecessary bureaucracy. You introduce a permit and a fee that has no impact whatsoever in practice. One might wonder what problem this condition was supposed to solve. There were already clear rules and guidelines, which were followed by those of us who worked on it. For example, we do not put timber where there is a risk of a traffic hazard. Naturally, we always try to influence you as little as possible. The new permits that are now to be applied for for each lay-off to be started will certainly, in addition to increased costs for the landowner, lead to three things: increased bureaucracy, greater environmental impact and lower road safety. I wonder if that is really what the government has in mind with these permit fees. There is, of course, an increase in red tape, because each new set-aside of each new landowner must seek a new permit instead of, as before, a general permit applicable to all landowners. There is a greater environmental impact when heavy machinery is forced to drive extra distances to put the timber where you have a permit and not where it is best. Anyone who has worked with it knows that the place where it is drawn on the map that the timber should lie rarely is the best place to put it. Therefore, drivers usually change places. Earlier, it was easy to do so, after just one phone call with the landowner. Now, when there will be a state that says exactly where the timber should lie, such a change will not be possible. Instead, it will be forced to drive the extra distance. Worst road safety is, of course, when you can't put the timber in the best place from a road safety point of view, but where it's drawn on the map.
i-d104247e52d4c631-328	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank my parliamentary colleagues Sten Bergheden and Jan Ericson for asking very good questions. From 1 January this year, Trafikverket will charge SEK 2,900 when a forest owner will lay timber on a public road. This penalty is perceived as another stick in the wheel for forest owners. There are about 330 000 forest owners in Sweden. The average forest owner has about 49 hectares. Many have smaller forest shifts, not large ones. Right now, many forest owners have problems with spruce bark. To solve it, you have to be good and take out your affected forest. It also requires the state to do so. It may not lead to very large piles of wood. They could be smaller. But every time a farmer takes out his trees, he will pay $2,800. Of course, many feel that it is troubling. I'd like to ask the Minister a few questions. Is the fee something that the government itself has put on for more money? How will the Finnish Transport Administration control this? What's the fee for? And what will happen if a landowner does not report and pay this penalty?
i-d104247e52d4c631-332	Madam President, I would like I arrived late, and the Government had already preferred its answer. But I understand from my colleagues that I did not miss anything, that it was a defensive and bland answer. At the beginning of December, I submitted a written question on wood removals. I received an answer where the Government hid behind Section 43 of the Road Act of 1971 and Chapter 6. Section 8 of the Road Ordinance 2012. So the law is very old, even older than me. The Road Regulations are not as old. We have managed without this fee for a number of years, but now it is to be introduced suddenly. It may seem to be a small matter that does not affect so many people. In addition, it affects rural areas, and it is therefore not very important. In my last few years as a Member of Parliament, this is the one of my questions that has received the most unparalleled response in the media. SVT Värmland contacted me and asked how much response I had received. They saw on their website and otherwise how unusually much response they had received. Therefore, even if it affects rural areas, it is not a small matter. Since the Christian Democrats feel that the Minister has not taken the matter seriously, we have submitted a committee initiative to the Transport Committee, precisely to stress the importance of the issue. We need to make more people understand that it is not only about $2,900, but also about the green industry. It is those who live in the countryside and who run the forest who are affected. In its answer to my written question, the Government writes that the Swedish Transport Administration has announced that they will introduce procedures to comply with the rules according to road law and road regulations. But who can change the road law? Who can change the road regulation? As far as legislative changes are concerned, I believe that we are the ones in this House who own that right. As a result, there are great opportunities to change so that it will not affect small forest owners, who are the hardest hit. Does the Government realize that this is a severe blow to the countryside and the green industries? Now that we're going to reset, the forest is extremely important. It is Sweden's competitive advantage. We're going to use the forest in our transition. Punishing the use of the forest then becomes counterproductive. Does the Government realize what the decision really means?
i-d104247e52d4c631-338	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your strong commitment. First of all, on behalf of the government, I would like to point out that in the title of the written version of the interpellation response, it should certainly not be Jan Bergheden. I'm sure Sten understands that it's a miswrite. The Member of Parliament Sten Bergheden is well-known in this Chamber. Furthermore, I very much appreciate having a debate with him. For those sitting in the gallery in this Chamber who may not know, I can say that I am a Chronoberger. I live in the middle of the forest and know well the conditions of the forest industry. I have several times had to pull out to its rescue, not least in connection with the storm Gudrun. Then we had to make an extra piece of legislation and quickly come up with various proposals. So I understand the commitment and can honestly say that I also appreciate it. I might think that there are some overtones in the discussion, for example, that it is a complete disaster. Of course it is not. This is an administrative charge that has not been levied for a relatively long time since the rules came into force in 2012. I want to remember that we had an alliance government when it was introduced. It is clear that it surprised some when Trafikverket made a new legal assessment and began to charge the fee. I think most people think it's reasonable to take a test. Nevertheless, I would like to say this to the Member of the Swedish Democrats who brought it forward. For a responsible road keeper, it is important that a timber warehouse cannot look like any other. Then you have to make a test and see where it should be and whether it can affect or impair road safety. Everyone who has driven on smaller roads knows how important it is that it is not dangerous to traffic. Therefore, it is important to have a trial. It is also important to look at the impact of the new application chosen by the Authority. I was asked if it is a saving that is being done. It's not. It is not a government directive, but it is the authority itself that has come to the conclusion that it cannot refrain from charging a fee. You have a duty to do it. Let us therefore study and follow this and see if the authority is obliged to charge such a fee. The Government Office is now looking at the question. I know that the Committee on Transport and Tourism has gone into the matter in depth, which I appreciate. Various stakeholders will be invited to follow the dialogue that exists between the Swedish Transport Administration and the forestry industry. If there is one thing we agree on, it is the importance of good conditions not only for rural areas but also for the forestry sector. Since I became Minister of Infrastructure, I have made sure to open up the regulatory framework for BK4 and 74-ton trucks. We have increased the funding for roads to SEK 164 billion and made extra funding for not least the smaller roads. We came with the so-called pothole money to strengthen the carrying capacity of the roads. This is important in conjunction with the policy that the government generally pursues to improve the conditions for rural areas, both ensuring government services and making some tax simplifications in the latest budget. We also ensure that municipalities and regions that are in a difficult situation will have improved opportunities, not least through cost equalisation. To the moderate Members who are involved, I would like to say that I wish that the commitment was there when we talk about cost equalisation. Here, instead, the Moderates have wanted to add more money to the big cities and delay support for the smaller rural municipalities. My answer will be as before: We prepare the question in the Government Office. Nor can I say anything else, because we do not have ministerial rule. I cannot oblige the Finnish Transport Administration to do anything other than apply the laws and regulations that exist here in the pulpit. But I want you to know that we are preparing the question in the Government Office.
i-d104247e52d4c631-349	Madam President, I would like The Minister may continue to call me, if he wants to, Jan Bergheden, but remove the fee – that's the most important thing. We need to produce much more forest to cope with the environmental change. Instead, the government opposes it through new reserves, high fuel taxes and new timber charges. This is hardly the way to create competitiveness and a vibrant countryside. Many forest owners today need to combat spruce bark, as many others have mentioned today. The state reserve produces a variety of spruce bark drills that then spread to neighbouring properties and create problems for other forest owners. When forest owners are forced to pick the forest on affected trees, the volumes in many different places can be small. This means costly logging costs, increased driving costs and more work. It is totally unacceptable that the country's forest owners should also be subject to a new government fee when driving out the timber. Is there really a need for a permit for timber strips along a public road? I had a RUT run. Approximately 1 000 permit cases are handled each year – it commutes between 700 and 1,200. There will be 7 – 8 refusals per year. Someone at Trafikverket is therefore looking at maps in their office somewhere to find out where the landowners and those who drive out the timber will put it, and then they draw it on the map. We heard from a former machine driver an example of how it is done. That is the problem. I am absolutely convinced that the people living in rural areas are capable of dealing with this on their own. These are not supposed to be bureaucrats sitting in Stockholm drawing on a map. The rural people themselves manage to put this up on the basis of the guidelines that the Swedish Transport Administration can of course develop on what to think about when laying up timber along public roads. We should agree here today, Minister, that we should immediately remove the charge and amend the road law and the road regulation so that the type of timber is removed from that part. In this way, there will be no concern for Trafikverket's continued work. Rural areas have bad roads with poor maintenance. Often the roads are worn down. What do the government and the Finnish Transport Administration do? Well, instead of upgrading and maintaining the roads, the speed is lowered. The government works in every way to try to fund unprofitable high-speed trains. What if the government had put the same effort into solving the maintenance of our roads and railways, not least in rural areas? Instead, the government now allows the countryside to pay additional fees when using the public road to get its timber to the forest industry. The government should really think about its priorities before spending tax money on unprofitable high-speed trains. The Moderates put forward a budget in which we wanted to strengthen competitiveness and create opportunities for rural areas by reducing petrol and diesel taxes by SEK 1. This would have meant that a truck owner who drives 20,000 miles [20,000 km] a year would have a reduced tax of about $1,000 a year. This, of course, is important when we may soon enter a recession. We must strengthen the competitiveness of our important forest industry. Madam President, I would like It doesn't seem like we're getting any answers today. I'm still asking you a few questions. Does the Minister intend to work to remove the fee on timber strips? If so, when can we have a decision? Do you expect those who have paid this fee to get their money back?
i-d104247e52d4c631-358	Madam President, I would like As I said in my first speech, it may seem a little silly that we have a debate in Parliament on a fee of SEK 2,900. I understand if anyone thinks so. However, it is a very good example of how the authorities deal with Sweden's small businesses and rural areas. This is a typical fee that is perceived as excessive and unnecessary, for something that is not needed. With 1,000 permits of SEK 2,900, the agency collects SEK 3 million from the Swedish forest owners. The fact is that today's government is very inventive when it comes to introducing new taxes and charges, more bureaucracy, rules, controls and costs. As has been said, this approach also seems to permeate the government's authorities. Every single thing, every new rule, every form or control and every new small cost, tax or supervisory fee may not spoil the finances of a small business or a private individual. But if you add up every little n puzzle piece, the situation will gradually become completely untenable for very many of the country's small rural operators in agriculture and forestry, tourism and hotels – the restaurant and service sectors. My experience is that the government today is governed far too much by officials and bureaucrats, not infrequently living in the inner city of Stockholm. They show huge shortcomings in the interest, knowledge and commitment to rural areas, sparsely populated areas and smaller towns in our country. The understanding of the particular economic conditions of the green industries is appallingly weak. I do not think that the forest owners concerned are particularly interested in the Minister following the matter, nor in the fact that the matter is being prepared in the Government Office. I think they are more interested in whether the Minister really thinks this is a reasonable fee. You can discuss whether the fee actually needs to be examined. If the Minister is so familiar with forestry a condition, which I know Tomas Eneroth is, it is strange that he himself has not received this reaction from people around him. They should have reacted to this, too. I have a very specific question for Tomas Eneroth. He said the government is looking at the question. Then I have to ask, what are you looking at? The Minister states in his reply that the fee is levied in accordance with the rules in force. So you don't have to look at it. So what's left to look at? Well, that's why you charge the fee. So there is only one question left: Does the government think the fee is okay or does it not? Just as my fellow debaters have said before, if you think the fee is okay, the government can justify why you think it is reasonable and okay and therefore should continue to be charged. It can't be that hard to say, can it? If you don't think it's good or reasonable, you have to say that it doesn't feel really good and that you should try to do something to change things. The government speaks very beautifully of simplifications of rules and the removal of unnecessary obstacles to small business. In practice, however, developments are moving steadily in the other direction. And if you take small steps to dismantle an unnecessary rule or charge, there are often several new ones instead. This is very unfortunate at a time when we see unemployment rising and we need more people in work. And we know that many with lower education can get a job in the green industries. Then it is these industries and the countryside that you go after. I think it's really sad.
i-d104247e52d4c631-365	Madam President, I would like I have full respect for the fact that the Government does not read the Worker's Sheet. But I'm gonna have some reading from it. It says: After 55 years of asphalt – now the county road is broken gravel road: They lied to us right up in the face. Large holes, pits and deep mud. Ground road for miles. Now the road in northern Ockelbo has also been destroyed. The antiquities rage and fear the worst for the town. It's a scandal. Do they not want us to be able to stay here, says a person interviewed in the Worker's Sheet. It is the reality for all of us who live beyond Stockholm's subway network, and it is the reality for many of those who live in Gävleborg. I think that is exactly how we should look at government policy. I don't know how many interviews I've seen with some infrastructure minister who thinks it's important to build high-speed trains between some big cities at a cost of 300, 400, 500, 600 or 700 billion SEK, while Åmots residents don't make their way on the gravel road. Then you also take the opportunity to tax those who buy a four-wheel drive car in order to get through. It has become natural for the same government to allow authorities to impose an additional penalty tax, or levy, in rural areas that have no function whatsoever. Just as Sten Bergheden said, it was 3,621 stores last year. Of them, 7 were denied. I think the Government can give its honest opinion here. Does the Government think it is a reasonable fee? Then stand up for it. Does the Government think it's wrong? Then act to change it. It's a very digital question.
i-d104247e52d4c631-372	Madam President, I would like I wonder if Tomas Eneroth really means what he said about the fact that it must not look like any other way along the way and that these permits are therefore required. Even if we look at smaller roads, the reason why it may look bad sometimes is that you have pulled up dung on the road or that you have lost branches on the road. It is very rarely that the timber itself is in any way in the way or disturbing. Moreover, the condition does not say what the trot will look like when it is finished. In the condition, it only says where the trot is allowed to be laid. In fact, very rarely trots are laid on a larger road. One might imagine that permission was required on the largest roads. But the vast majority of public roads are very small. Historically, it has always been the driver who has been judged when something has gone wrong. If there is a car that has had an accident or similar, it is the driver who has made a mistake, usually the driver of the forest machine or the driver of the truck who stands there loading. Tomas Eneroth also mentioned the storm Gudrun. I don't know if he missed it this weekend, too. The fact that this weekend was windy wasn't in itself something that caused some great devastation. But I'm sure that's caused a lot of trees to fall. When these trees are now to be run out, those who do so risk getting a fee of $2,900 just to put up a small pile. This in itself is not yet in place. But next year, if I have understood correctly, that will be the case. This fee is probably higher than what the income is from the smallest roller that is ten cubic metres and where the value of the timber is less than SEK 3 000.
i-d104247e52d4c631-377	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the Minister's reply. It was still a small opening when the Minister said that you should look at how the new penalty fee will be. I hope that the Minister and the Government will really look into this and come up with something else. A new additional charge for forest owners and indirectly for rural areas is worrying. Unfortunately, what many have said here, that is, more rules and more bureaucracy. It is something that we politicians, both from the red side and from the other side, often say that we should reduce. But this is exactly the opposite. This becomes a burden and something that further affects many people. I will continue to ask the Minister the questions that I did not get an answer to before. How will the Finnish Transport Administration check this, and what will the fee be done? What will happen if a landowner does not report this and pays his penalty?
i-d104247e52d4c631-380	Madam President, I would like The Government considered that there were some overtones in the speeches. I would rather counter the fact that I can note a low level of commitment from the Government on this issue. Is it perhaps because this charge affects ordinary people living in rural areas? It seems that people living in rural areas are a kind of second rank people. Not long ago, I sent a written question to the Government on individual roads. That is something that we really have a lot of in rural areas. The individual roads would be reclassified. This also changes funding. Many of the individual roads' funding consists of government money but also of municipal money. Municipal money depends on the state. If you do not receive a state grant, you do not receive a municipal grant either. This reclassification causes individual roads to suffer as they do not receive a State contribution. In the answer from Minister Eneroth, it says:. as the Swedish Transport Administration has also clearly stated in comments to the media, there is no saving purpose in their review work. ..................................................... Thus, the reclassification of individual roads had nothing to do with savings. The signals we have received here are not about the fact that it is some kind of saving or money that you have to have. These fees have not been paid for a number of years. Then you should continue to make it. Now Jan Ericson asked me the question I was going to ask. I'm also thinking about what you really need to look at. This is crystal clear. It has done without this in the past. It is stated in the law, and it has been pointed out that the law should be respected. Who's changing the law? Yes, we are.
i-d104247e52d4c631-385	Madam President, I would like Thank you, my fellow debaters. As I said before, I appreciate the commitment, and I share it. In fact, my opinion on harmonics is still valid. I am worried when Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson tries to argue that people are different depending on where they live in this country. That is a remarkable statement. I myself grew up in Kosta with 800 inhabitants, and I know very well what it means to live in places where there is no subway, fast train or anything else. I would never dream of accusing even the Christian Democrats or the Moderates, despite the tax policy that you represent and despite the urban-concentrated policy that you have pursued as soon as you have the government, of distinguishing people according to where they live as if they have different values. This is not how we do things in the Swedish Parliament. But we have different starting points. It is clear that my starting point is that we should have good conditions to live in rural areas and that we should have good conditions for Swedish forestry. When a fee is introduced, as was now done, we will of course look at how the Swedish Transport Administration handles it. The Committee on Transport and Tourism has itself concluded that it wants to look at how it is managed and how it is implemented. What I do not want to blur, which I think is important and to say in connection with the speech by the Swedish Democrats, is road safety. That's why you need to try this. We have seen that throughout history there have been accidents where timber warehouses have not been placed in a safe way. That is not to be missed, and it is also a responsibility of the road keeper. I think you have to respect that. Then there is a general debate here on rural conditions, and I note that moderate Members have a huge fad for the view that it is the petrol tax that is at issue. They want to spend SEK 7 billion on reducing the tax on petrol. With all due respect: millions of people are currently demonstrating worldwide, out of concern for the climate issue. Thousands of scientists worldwide are concerned about climate change. Then the Moderates go to the front and say: Lower the petrol tax! Then you take up the truck tax and the road wear charge. Seriously, we soon have a development where the only people who pay on Swedish roads are Swedish hauliers, not foreign hauliers. I have never really understood where bourgeois involvement comes from in order for only Swedish road hauliers, not foreign ones, to pay tolls. I think it is reasonable that we have a charging system where everyone who is working on Swedish roads also contributes. This is a discussion we have, about the design of the Eurovignette and the road wear tax, but I think it is important that we create good conditions for Swedish forestry – and of course for rural areas. When we make infrastructure investments, we actually choose to do them throughout the country. New main tracks that will go by and contribute to housing in Hässleholm, Borås, Linköping, Norrköping and Jönköping are an important initiative not only for better communications but also to be able to provide space for more freight transport on the Södra Stambanan and Västra Stambanan. But we are also investing, as was said earlier, 164 billion in road maintenance and have extra money for roads in rural areas. Recently I opened the Västerdalsbanan in the middle of Malungsfors in Dalarna. There we made an effort to electrify the railway so that the forest industry, instead of driving 7 500 trucks along a long distance, can transport the goods fossil-free by rail. It was an important investment in western Dalarna. Again, I respect and appreciate the commitment. I will not call Sten Bergheden Jan Bergheden, but I will still look at and study how the fee can be charged in the future – and whether it should be charged. We will, of course, evaluate this on the basis of the information we receive from the Finnish Transport Administration.
i-d104247e52d4c631-394	Madam President, I would like The Minister tells us that he appreciates the commitment and, as we see, many Members of Parliament have gathered in this debate. What we would have liked, however, is a little greater commitment on the part of the Minister, given that he is responsible for the fees. Through my RUT investigation I have found that Trafikverket does not have a comprehensive picture of traffic accidents and other accidents linked to timber warehouses. So I do not know what sources the Minister refers to, but at least the Finnish Transport Administration has no overall idea that they would pose a risk of accident that can be documented. Regardless of this, fees have nothing to do with the permit. What we are discussing here today, Madam President, is above all to remove the fee. It is, of course, the one that affects all smaller forest owners and others when they have to lay out smaller timber strips along our public roads. If you live in rural areas, it is obvious that you must be able to use the roads without having to pay again, in the form of a fee, to use them. We need the forest in Sweden. This government is investing in forest reserves, higher fuel prices and new timber fees. It does not strengthen the competitiveness of the forest industry, but rather undermines the competitiveness we need to have when we enter a recession. We Moderates have looked at trying to strengthen the forest industry by removing fees, reducing reserves and reducing fuel taxes. These are policies that are really noticeable out there and that make the Swedish forest industry competitive. These fees have not been in place for eight years and, of course, they do not need to be introduced now either. If so, you could have a waiver while changing the law. If it is the case that the Minister and the Government find it difficult to amend this law ourselves, then we in Parliament will have to help to adjust the legislation in the future.
i-d104247e52d4c631-399	Madam President, I would like With all due respect to the Minister for Infrastructure: No matter how much we raise the Swedish petrol tax, I do not think we can compensate for China building 500 new coal power plants, about which there was news this weekend. As far as road safety is concerned, I am, in fact, concerned about this charge. If you have an unnecessary fee that people do not perceive as legitimate, it leads to that they do not apply for a permit, to avoid paying the fee. Then the publishers end up in dangerous places instead of people being helped by the Swedish Transport Administration to find a good place. It can thus put road safety at a disadvantage. The most serious thing here, however, is how the levy hits the industry. We remember the lofty promises before the 2014 elections that with a Social Democratic government we would have the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. Now we see that, instead, we have higher unemployment than the EU average. When the government took office in 2014, we were 12 in the EU, and now we are 22. Only 5 countries in the EU have higher unemployment than Sweden, and we have now seen that we have the lowest per capita growth of all countries across the EU. In this situation, as a minister, I had asked myself in every context: does this measure, fee or provision create more jobs? Does this mean that we are increasing growth in Sweden? If it didn't, I wouldn't do it. If something had proved to be counterproductive, countering jobs and, in fact – in this case – even countering green industries and a good environment, I would have torn up a bad decision. Now I'm giving Tomas Eneroth one last chance. Can the Minister not give a clear statement that he at least sees a problem with this fee and that he understands the anger over the fee? Can't we at least have it?
i-HpDkMYPtYsLPS41HivM9Zt	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the interpellations, Jan Ericson and Sten Bergheden, and thank you to all of you who have participated! Of course I understand the irritation. I have also made it alive, because I have many in my surroundings that come from the forest region of Kronoberg in Småland. So I carry the irritation with me, and it became very clear when we worked on the effects of the storm Gudrun. But it is, of course, just as important today to ensure that forestry and rural areas have good conditions, and this government does. We spend more money than ever on roads: 164 billion for road maintenance and extra money to improve road standards. We make sure to create government services in smaller municipalities, and we strengthen rural conditions in a variety of ways. Sometimes we do this in conflict with a bourgeoisie that usually benefits the big cities. Not least, the aim was to delay tax equalisation at the latest and not to provide additional resources to the rural municipalities that needed it. Historically, too, the development of big cities has often been enhanced. I belong to those who think that the whole country should stick together, and that is the starting point for all the policies that I represent. As far as this charge is concerned, I have said that it is not something that the Government has ordered the Finnish Transport Administration to introduce. It is a fee that the Swedish Transport Administration's lawyers have said that one should now charge, and then the Swedish Transport Administration has started to apply this from 1 January. When we got this to life, we said we had to control it and study it. Now we do, and we prepare the question in the Government Office. I cannot say anything else as a minister, and so do my former fellow Members of Parliament. However, I can assure them that the commitment is both on my part and, apparently, on the part of a great many in Parliament. I appreciate it. However, I also appreciate, and in particular, that the Committee on Transport is considering and looking at road safety. For we must not jeopardise it on our roads – whether the big ones or the smaller ones. Thank you for a good debate!
i-d104247e52d4c631-409	Madam President, I would like Runar Filper has asked me how I see the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency not following the parliamentary decision on the limit for favourable conservation status taken by our elected representatives. The interpellant has also asked me if the government should authorise the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to correct its assessment of the level of favourable conservation status following the parliamentary decision taken in 2013. Furthermore, the interpeller has asked what the government is doing to enforce more effective game management that manages the wolf rather than indirectly exposing it to illegal hunting. Finally, the interpellant has asked how I see the possibility of strengthening local and regional influence in the game management delegations. The Swedish Parliament decided in 2013 to approve the government's proposal in the bill A sustainable predator policy that the reference value for favourable conservation status of the Swedish wolf population should be 170 – 270 individuals. In the bill, the Government stated that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency would, after Parliament's treatment, assess where the reference value for wolf would be within the range proposed by the Government and report the value to the European Commission under the Species and Habitats Directive. Within this limit, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported that the reference value for the wolf population in Sweden should be at least 270 wolves. The reference value for favourable conservation status may then not be less than the reference value. However, the Swedish population has had a higher inbreeding rate than is considered acceptable, and the vulnerability analysis underlying the reference value in the bill was criticised for not taking into account the genetic aspects. In 2015, the Government commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to update the analysis on the basis of a broad scientific basis and, on the basis of the new analysis, to investigate what is required for the population to be considered as having favourable conservation status. The analysis showed that at least 300 wolves are needed in Sweden and that at least one immigrant wolf from Finland or Russia reproduces with a Scandinavian wolf every five years in order for the population to have favourable conservation status. According to the European Commission's guidelines, countries are constantly to re-evaluate the conservation status between the regular reports that they are required to make under the Species and Habitats Directive. Such reports shall be made every six years, and in 2019 Sweden reported to the European Commission that the reference value for favourable conservation status is now 300 wolves. I see no reason to ask the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to correct its assessment of the reference value for favourable conservation status for the wolf in Sweden. The assessment of the reference value is based on a scientific basis. The management of wolf can be carried out more actively when the wolf tribe has achieved favourable conservation status with a certain margin above the reference value of 300 individuals. When the number is balanced on the reference value, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has assessed that there is no room for hunting other than hunting for animals that cause damage or are close by. It is not certain that the total mortality of the wolf as a species would decrease if it were decided on a licence hunt instead of a protection hunt. When it comes to the question of how I see the possibility of strengthening the local and regional influence of the wildlife management delegations, my assessment is that delegations are already based on regional participation. Delegations have a strong influence on overall guidelines for the management of game as a whole in the county within the framework of the EU Species and Habitats Directive.
i-6B6RHAvy1Ks3FzPJ6sDPRs	Madam President and Prime Minister Jennie Nilsson! Thanks for the answer, Jennie! As you know, the Environmental Protection Agency officials first decided to raise the limit for the wolf tribe's reference value to at least 300 wolves, contrary to what the Riksdag decided. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency then ran democratic decisions from the game management delegation and decided that there would be wolf rejuvenations in Jämtland. This happened despite the fact that the county's wildlife management delegation decided by a majority that Jämtland should not have any wolves. The democratic process is eliminated when a government work makes decisions that run counter to what – in this case – a democratically appointed group under the County Administrative Board has been established. The county governors in northern Sweden have also agreed in consultation that the counties should not have any wolf rejuvenations, either in Västernorrland, Jämtland, Norrbotten or Västerbotten. A vargrevir is also a blow to reindeer husbandry, Sami culture and reindeer husbandry's chances of survival. There is a parliamentary decision on a maximum of 10 per cent losses to the reindeer industry due to predators. Wolves there would make things worse. This shows that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is rather uninterested in this fact and more or less runs its own race. I think that's very serious. Doesn't the Minister think that decisions taken democratically are not accompanied here? Will instructions and regulatory letters to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency be reviewed and be able to be amended in future to follow democratically made decisions, or will it continue this way year after year? It cannot be the intention that parliamentary decisions should not be accompanied. I want answers to these questions.
i-d104247e52d4c631-422	Madam President, I would like We Moderates place great value on rural activities and on those who live and work in the countryside. Both wolf and other large predators need to be adapted to the countryside, not the other way round. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has announced that it will not allow the hunting of wolves this winter. The reason given by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is that the wolf population continues to consist of 300 individuals – the same level as the authorities consider necessary for favourable conservation status. Therefore, it is considered that there is no scope for licence hunting. The reason for this, in turn, is considered illegal hunting; it is something that has been heard. Madam President, I would like The fact that the hunting of wolves has not been carried out this year has been strongly opposed by many, as the concentration of wolf populations differs greatly in Sweden. In Värmland in particular, many people perceive that neither the government nor the authority understand their everyday lives. Many have also reacted strongly to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's statement on illegal hunting. Hunting is not a hobby for most people, but a lifestyle and part of their identity. Such a statement is therefore seen as a guilt of all hunters. A clearer explanation of its position and the fact that the authority stands up for all law-abiding hunters would reduce tensions. No one wants to see illegal hunting, least of all the hunters. Regarding the wolf population, there is basically a previous parliamentary decision based on science and EU directives. With these safe foundations to lean on, there is now room for a halving of the wolf population on the Scandinavian Peninsula. It may also be added that many people perceive the number of wolf individuals – 170 – 270 – mentioned in previous parliamentary decisions as a framework for the number of wolves that should exist. That is wrong, Madam President. Scientists have previously established that the number for the smallest viable strain is 100. This figure is also based on the Scandinavian Peninsula as the range of wolves. 170 is already well above it, and today the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's figure is 300. Madam President, I would like As I said, we Moderates place great value on rural activities and on the people who live and work in the countryside. Parents should be able to let their children out on the farm without worrying, and in preschools the children should be able to play out without feeling insecure. There have been wolves near preschools. There is a need for sensible trade-offs between different interests, not least between animals and humans. Restrictions on people's freedom should be prevented as far as possible, and this issue is important for people living in rural areas and having wolf close to the corner of the house.
i-d104247e52d4c631-432	Madam President, I would like I thank Runar Filper and Marléne Lund Kopparklint for their contributions in an important debate. This issue concerns, and it is important that we show that we take it very seriously. It is a difficult and complex issue, and a number of different interests should be taken into account. Under the EU Species and Habitats Directive, the wolf is strictly protected. This means that we must relate to it and to the conditions and frameworks that exist. We have a unanimous parliamentary decision from 2013 at the bottom. There the figure was set at 170 - 270 on the basis of the scientific basis at the time. It also says that socio-economic considerations should be taken into account and that the wolf should be spread throughout the country. I think we all agree that these objectives are still valid and that we stand by them. Yes, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is the responsible authority in these matters. In the case of licence hunting versus protection hunting versus illegal hunting, 98 wolves were carried out during the last term of office. During the previous term of office, from 2010 to 2014, a total of 22 wolves are operated by licence hunting. As far as protection hunting is concerned, 118 wolves were found in 2010–2018 and another 19 wolves in 2019. This far this year three or possibly four wolves have been shot. I think there was another one the other day. In the considerations that have been made, it has been found that licence hunting has not been possible because the number of wolves after last year's bill was close to 300. On the other hand, protection hunting is carried out for socio-economic reasons or to protect domestic animals or other objects. This is in accordance with the tools you have to work with. There is nothing in the statistics from 2010 to today that shows a sharp increase or differentiation without licence hunting. During the last parliamentary term, we took a number of decisions to ensure high efficiency and access to the best possible tools. We set up, among other things, a special court for appeals in order to obtain legal certainty proceedings. We have also introduced an urgency requirement to ensure that these cases are dealt with quickly. We have also been clear that we want to develop a methodology linked to inventory in order to get a good settlement and high legitimacy in how to count the number of wolves. It is also a matter of ensuring that DNA is used as much as possible to be able to inventory when there is no snow, but above all to be able to have it as a basis in the scientific basis for favourable conservation status.
i-d104247e52d4c631-441	Madam President, I would like The parliamentary decision taken in 2013 had another scientific material to base itself on, as Marléne Lund Kopparklint said. That was the solid scientific evidence that Skandulv produced. There, the smallest viable population for Scandinavia was added to 100 individuals. Now we have 300 wolves in Sweden and 100 in Norway, which far exceeds the 100 individuals required by this scientific report. Now, as I said, there is a new scientific basis, which says that 300 wolves are the minimum for favourable conservation status. What will be the next step in the next and next report? 350 wolves? 400 wolves? 500 wolves? When authorities make decisions and do not follow political decisions or listen to locals, a kind of culture of silence and Robin Hood mentality are forced by people living in forest areas with many wolves. According to wildlife guardians and game handlers at Värmland County Administrative Board, previously established territory has disappeared without trace. Revir-marking couples and wolf puppies disappear and are replaced by new immigrant wolves at a pace that has not been seen before. Revir and flocks disappear and new wolves wander in. It used to be the same wolves year after year for many years. It's not like that anymore. There seems to be a high turnover in the stem. Something is happening that is not natural. This could be illegal hunting, because there is a large turnover of wolves in the area. At the county administrative board, you scratch your head. Allow me to say here that I and my party strongly reject illegal hunting. However, my conviction is that with regular licence hunts, these problems would be reduced, even if they would certainly not disappear completely. Getting a desired scientific basis in your hand is not very difficult. You just give the mission to the right people, you get the report you want. In hunting debates at home in Värmland, the Green Party is often represented by the same person. He has done the vulnerability analyses for lynx, bear and wolverine. He has previously also done vulnerability analyses for wolf, which have formed the basis for Swedish wolf policy. He has also been chairman of the Swedish Rovjursföreningen. Similar forces have a great influence on the scientific basis for Swedish predator management. A year ago, in February 2019, it was said to read in the think tank Timbro's leader: Another sign that the 68-left march through the institutions has succeeded – and that the public has too much power. .....................................................
i-d104247e52d4c631-450	Madam President, I would like The rural minister says the wolf should be scattered all over the country, but that's not the case. I think I've shown the Minister for Rural Affairs a map of how almost my entire county of Värmland is covered by vargrevir. The wolf stirs emotions, and it's also about protecting the wolf. What risk is there if people do not feel confident about letting their children out to play on the farm or drop their dogs in the woods or if they experience danger to the animals they keep in their farms? What happens if you feel insecure and the wolf gets very close? I have met farmers who have had wolves from three different vargrevir on their plot. Then it's not so fun to let a three- or four-year-old play in the yard. You should also not have to opt out of farming with animal husbandry because you are afraid that the wolf will harm the animals. It's limiting people's freedom. Madam President, I would like I think that the decision on the hunting of licences made during the winter shows that the government takes no account of those who live and work with the wolf's presence around the corner. It is on this decision that I have asked my questions to the Minister for Rural Development. Instead of creating conflict between rural and public authorities, the government should speed up efforts to strengthen regional administration in order to allow the county administrative boards to decide on regional management on the basis of local conditions. This would be a solution to the problem.
i-d104247e52d4c631-455	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the supplementary questions. I can only say that it is worrying to have a discussion about the choice of scientific basis. My expectation and picture is that Swedish authorities take a broad responsibility to collect broad scientific data and that this is important. It is also important to me that the decisions that we and the authorities have to deal with are based on a scientific basis. I think it is problematic when you indicate that you can choose the basis based on that it should fit in. Unfortunately, this is something that occurs a little too much in the political debate, but it is left to political representatives to take responsibility for themselves. I note that I have wolf debates quite often in this House. It shows that there is a great and genuine commitment to these issues. I think it is good and important that we work to increase the legitimacy of these issues and try to find good common paths to create greater legitimacy. I can also note that the interpellants in the debates so far always duck at the fact that this is an issue in which we do not have sovereign national competence. We have to deal with the existence of an EU directive which provides strict protection and which requires Sweden to have favourable conservation status. There we already have an infringement case which is inactive and which can be activated at any time if we see that we do not live up to the intentions of the directive in this area. My picture is that it would be hugely costly for Sweden with such an infringement case. This could mean both a fairly high fixed amount, given that Sweden is considered to have a high ability to pay, and possibly ticking periodic penalty payments. I would like to hear from the interpellants how they view the fact that we have a directive on species and habitats to deal with. I miss this perspective in the debate so far. On top of that, I think it is a good thing to have a lively discussion. I would like to point out once again that, in the years when we do not have a licence hunt, we have protective hunting as the tool we use. It is clear that it is being used and has been used all along. I can also note that the year when there were most wolves in Sweden since the law was introduced and came into place was at the bill made in 2014– 2015. Then the number was over 400 – if I remember correctly it was 425. One advantage of such a large number is, of course, that, based on the fact that it is to be sparse, one can take some kind of consideration of this when licensing is granted. I can also say that it is embarrassing when it sounds in the debate that the wolves are getting more and more. This is not correct; they are fewer. On the other hand, they are very concentrated in certain areas, and my main concern at this point is actually to find the actual tools that mean that we can have a good and natural embellishment that is accepted by the European Union, given that we are not in breach of the directive that we are committed to following.
i-d104247e52d4c631-463	Madam President, I would like Only 6 protection hunts on 42 applications, such as in Gävleborg, affect people's everyday lives very much. The concept of protection hunting must be broadened and used to a greater extent for preventive purposes. Here the county administrative boards must have new, sharper directives. The Swedish Democrats have proposed the creation of local consultative bodies in each municipality that can give rapid opinions to the county administrative boards before decisions on protection hunting are granted or rejected. Local knowledge of predators, incidents and moods must be taken into account when so crucial decisions are to be taken far away, behind a desk. This would be the real regionalisation of predatory policy. We believe that strengthening rural communities, as well as better dialogue between regional authorities, hunters' organisations and rural people in general, must be a priority. Here is an announcement and parliamentary decision from 2015 on a new game agency that should take over the functions of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that are linked to game conservation and hunting, but the government has put it in the investigation pile. The Norwegian wolf zone extends along the Värmland border. It is the only area that the Norwegian authorities have set aside where flocks of wolf puppies are allowed. In addition to hunting in a territory, wolves who have wandered out of the wolf zone may be shot during the licence hunt, up to 26 animals in total. Environmentalists at county boards and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have proven to have a great impact. Couldn't a new wildlife agency be the start of a much more pragmatic and realistic body for hunting and game management in Sweden? Can we learn something from Norway's license hunt? We know that they are under the Berne Convention as well as that we have to deal with the Species and Habitats Directive. Maybe there are things to learn from the Norwegian organized hunt. I want answers to these questions.
i-d104247e52d4c631-469	Madam President, I would like I am also seeking the best possible dialogue with all relevant stakeholders, both regional and others, on this issue. I can see that Norway is a bad example to measure us against because they are not in the EU and therefore do not have to comply with the directive on species and habitats that we have to comply with. I noted that, despite the question, I did not get any reflection on whether to make a different assessment from what I, as a minister and our authorities, do in terms of what we have room for manoeuvre in this area. I look forward to this in the next debate on this subject, which I am sure will come shortly. Better dialogue, however, is very good. I was asked a specific question about a new game conservation agency, where there is an announcement from the Riksdag that is being prepared in the Government Office. This is a complex and difficult issue. What I can see is that a new authority would still have had to deal with the same species and habitats directive as the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is today. The situation does not change in that part. Again, I welcome the fact that we have a constant dialogue on these issues, which are important. Above all, I am looking for constructive thoughts and ideas on how to work well in addition to what the government has already done in terms of legally secure processes, introduced urgency requirements and developed inventory to achieve a better distribution across the kingdom. In my opinion, this is perhaps the most important issue when it comes to having a good management of our wolf tribe at the moment.
i-d104247e52d4c631-474	Madam President, I would like John Widegren has asked me how I intend to create the conditions for increased profitability for our Swedish farms in the short term, and whether it is my position that only a strong size rationalization is the solution to the food strategy's goal of increasing production or what I intend to do to provide the conditions for increased production. Through the long-term rationalisation of size, an increasingly smaller part of farms is responsible for an increasing proportion of production. At the same time, smaller companies are developing new business ideas in areas such as further processing, construction and tourism. It creates a dynamic development that is positive for increased competitiveness. Fuel costs for agricultural machinery affect Swedish farms. The reduction in diesel tax in agriculture has recently increased from SEK 1.70 onor per litre to SEK 1.93 onor per litre. The level for 2020 is the same as the average level for 2019. The national food strategy with a view to 2030 was adopted by the Riksdag on 20 June 2017. It means that a clear line is anchored in food policy until 2030. The overall objectives of the strategy are a competitive food chain where total food production increases, while at the same time achieving relevant national environmental objectives, with a view to creating growth and jobs and contributing to sustainable development throughout the country. In December 2019, the Government decided on a new food strategy action plan. The action plan includes investments of SEK 122 million annually up to and including 2025. In addition, additional investments of a total of SEK 114 million are made in 2020. It includes long-term measures up to 2025 and is an important step in increasing competitiveness and profitability. Some of the measures that I think are worth mentioning are: The design of the EU's common agricultural policy is also an important aspect for the implementation of the food strategy, which we have with us in preparing for the new period of the common agricultural policy. Overall, I see that the Swedish food chain has great potential that is important to exploit, and it is through long-term and continuous work towards the food strategy's goals of increased production that we can make it happen.
i-d104247e52d4c631-481	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister very much for his answer. The food strategy is a good thing that we have adopted across block borders. There is very much good in the food strategy. Nevertheless, Madam President, when external signals are received, we are still concerned, for example, that the government's commitment this year to the food strategy, with a basic amount of 122 million, is being eaten up by increased taxes. Then, on a short, small and simple road, we have reduced profitability while at the same time saying that we want to strengthen profitability in the long term through the food strategy. The food strategy's goal, as the Minister for Rural Development says, is that we should have some kind of results by 2030. That is the long perspective we see. But at the same time we know that it is still the case that almost every week there are five milk producers who close down in Sweden. It is usually said that we halve the number of milk producers over a ten-year period. This would mean that in 2030 we have under 1 500 milk producers in Sweden. We're somewhere under 3,000 now. They're getting pretty few. Should we not reduce the weight of milk, as we unfortunately do – I believe that today we are the only country in the European Union that is reducing the weight – this means that the farms that remain will have to be extremely large. That is why, Madam President, I choose to ask about size rationalization; it is one of the consequences. But is that where we want to go? We're talking about new environmental goals and things like that. But we will realise and understand that really large dairy producers may find it difficult to deal with environmental objectives, especially locally. We have a grazing legislation that says the cows must go out every day to a fairly nearby area. Then they should be in and milked two or three times. We will have an extremely high environmental load with such large farms. Therefore, size rationalization, which has been good for Sweden, can also be a threat to the future. All this lands in the fact that we have too little profitability. Even if, in the long term, we manage to find the goals of the food strategy and strengthen profitability, we would need some simple, quick and concrete things here and now. The refund of diesel is one thing. One could also accept the Moderates' proposal to reduce the diesel tax by another cent. This is something that gives farmers direct profitability. The LRF went out a few weeks ago and said that they want to be fossil free by 2030. Of course, that's a great goal. I think we can certainly achieve that. However, this is no obstacle to lowering the tax rate now in order to strengthen profitability in the short term. Farmers themselves are starting to adjust to the fact that they are going to move away from fossil fuel and that they are going to switch to fossil-free fuels. But they also need profitability now to be able to do so, a short-term profitability. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I think that the short-term issues are often lacking in the rural minister's reasoning. But we're going to need them too. I am not much in favour of having a lot of short-sightedness and then not thinking about the long-term. But we do have that in the food strategy. We have a long-term thought. It must not be the case that there are hardly any farms left by 2030 and the objectives of the food strategy are to be achieved. Should there be 1 500 dairy farms spread throughout Sweden, when we would have the opportunity to have 5 000 dairy farms instead? Therefore, once again, I would like to take the opportunity to put the question to the Minister for Rural Development: are there no short and quick solutions to strengthen profitability even now, so that we have some farms left when the food strategy is in goal in 2030?
i-d104247e52d4c631-488	Madam President, I would like I thank my fellow Member, John Widegren, who has put this very important interpellation to the Minister for Rural Development. When I talk to the industry's people, almost 100 percent of them say that the most important question in Swedish agriculture is how to increase profitability. According to the statistics, it has unfortunately deteriorated. John talked about the dairy industry. We know that dairy farms after dairy farms have closed or are closing down right now. It is happening at a rate that is devastating for our country, which John was at. We could produce even more milk, but instead we are currently producing less milk than other EU countries. We are now importing a lot of dairy products into our country. I find this incredibly remarkable and serious. We have adopted a food strategy in this House. It states that profitability will increase, competitiveness will be strengthened and food self-sufficiency will increase. What has happened, now that it is almost three years since we adopted the food strategy? Unfortunately, Madam President, it is precisely the opposite on all three points. The profitability, competitiveness and self-sufficiency of food have all deteriorated, even though we have adopted a strategy in this House. I would like to ask the Minister for Rural Affairs a question. When the Minister for Rural Development meets farmers in the country, I think they say the same thing to the Minister for Rural Affairs as well. It points to the food strategy, which has been adopted, and says: It is almost three years away, yet we still see nothing at farm level. Instead, there are unfortunately closures around our country. What is the response of the rural minister to the farmers who say that?
i-d104247e52d4c631-492	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Widegren and Magnus Oscarsson, for having this debate tonight! It is a very important debate in which I think we have basically more that unites us than divides us. I note with gratitude that there is great confidence that much of what we do needs long-term conditions and rules of play. Research and innovation, for example, are historically neglected. That is part of the explanation why we have, above all, profitability challenges today. We cannot make the same mistakes for the future. Therefore, it is very important that we are able to focus on things that are long-term. The new action plan adopted just before Christmas has four priority areas in particular. They have a little varied long and short term in their perspective. Long-term, of course, is research and innovation. In the short term, although it is not here and now, it is a question of giving very direct and more far-reaching initiatives to authorities to look at the overall regulatory burden and come up with proposals on how to deal with it. It is about coordination, digitalisation, making it easy to do the right thing, and so on. When I meet farmers in the country, it is something that they very often highlight. The supply of competence is of course also long-term, but it is also about h is and now. We are in a situation where the problem of recruiting staff with the right skills is an issue that is shared with all other sectors. Let's take a joint grip there. We give a mission to map and make proposals to this particular industry in all its parts. The final priority is on exports. There is a certain long-term outlook in exports. These are new export agreements, such as what we now got in place with the Philippines. It means conditions here and now to get an increased sales, better price and thus better profitability for the farmers here and now. Given that I mentioned the Philippine agreement, I assume John Widegren is already here to ask me what is going on with the China agreements. There I say with a preventive view that we already have everything in place from the Swedish side. We're ready to sign at any moment, and the ball's with the Chinese. Of course it would mean a lot if we got such a big deal on the ground. It is also an issue on which we work very structured towards identified, interesting markets. We have also identified the areas that are perhaps more easy. There we work to create conditions for market access, and so on. As soon as we get the contracts in place, they can start ticking right away. We are doing quite a lot of preparatory work in this area. We identify trade agreements such as what the EU did with Japan, for example, as a clear and good way to get on its feet quickly. There are many other interesting parts of Asia. A number of different things are being done. There is also a point in the January agreement that concerns the transition to fossil-independent agriculture. I noted that it was very gratifying that the LRF might have an even higher level of ambition than we may have initially expressed. Here I see great opportunities to work with fuel issues, for example, on the basis that we should stick to what is the basic principle because we have a reduction on diesel at all. For me, it is about ensuring that we have competition neutrality compared to other countries and other producers. This concept needs to be included in talking about switching to other alternative fuels. In that situation, unlike John Widegren, I think it is rather unwise to make any abrovink with something beyond that with, for example, 1 crown.
i-d104247e52d4c631-505	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for Rural Affairs. Of course, it is gratifying that we are getting agreements with the Philippines. It is even more gratifying when it is said that we could possibly have agreements with China. Unfortunately, we're a little second on the ball, but it's never too late. We can see how good pig-producing countries such as Denmark and Germany, which have been hard hit and previously got to their agreements, have already made a lot of money from the agreements. Unfortunately, there is a small threat in this. It is our dear African swine fever that is ravaging Europe right now. It approaches the German border by leaps and bounds. What happens if it enters Germany and Germany gets a ban on exports to China? Will Germany then want to dump all cheap pork into the Swedish market? It could knock away the bones very quickly and hard for the Swedish pig production. You can think and problematize about that. What happens if more countries in Europe get it – and if Sweden gets it? We will compete on the food side with our competing country in the west, Denmark. They currently produce 25 million pigs, and we produce about 21⁄2 million pigs. It is not because we are not good at producing pigs in Sweden. It depends on something completely different. It is some structure that has been in place for a very long time. I am not saying that it is because of the rural minister's government or the government before it. It is because of governments over 30, 40 and 50 years in Sweden that unfortunately did not think agricultural production in this country was important. Of course, it's a huge job we have when we're going to reverse that whole trend. The food strategy is a step in this. Many of the things contained in the food strategy are very good. The exports, which I have highlighted here, are good. Rule-simplification is a very important area. The Minister has also highlighted this. I can ask myself a little bit of a question as to why the Swedish Agency for Growth is the one that should handle it. Shouldn't the industry, together with perhaps the Swedish Board of Agriculture and others, handle this type of investigation? I believe that the industry itself, perhaps at the head of the LRF, is probably on a great many good solutions for how we can quickly strengthen competitiveness through regulatory simplification. We have talked about the supply of skills before. That's a very important question. It lands in the fact that it is difficult today to find the right skills for farms. We're going to fight with companies that have higher profitability. We are not able to measure profitability here today. We cannot pay the wages these people demand. For example, the construction industry is struggling and going to Sweden. It absorbs a great many of the people who could have worked in the green companies. There's the question of profitability again. Research and innovation are of course very important. We may have been at the rear when it came to developing research and innovation for Swedish agriculture. What is important now is that we listen to research and innovation. It may then be quite contradictory, for example, to set targets for different forms of production in the food strategy. Research doesn't say it's good to do that. We must dare to listen to the research when it comes with thoughts and ideas. It's really important. Another issue that was debated before here was the predator issue. It's also very important. In areas with important valuable pastures, people choose to end their animal production because of the predatory issue. They simply cannot afford, for example, to set up predatory fences. This needs to be highlighted in the debate on the food strategy. It would be interesting to hear how the Minister for Rural Development links the predatory issue to the food strategy debate.
i-d104247e52d4c631-514	Madam President, I would like I would first like to thank the Minister for his reply. It is very interesting to hear that you are talking about an agreement with the Philippines. It's very important. It is also good that we have more countries to look at to get more exports. It's very important. We are talking today about profitability. There is one group that I think about a lot and that needs to hear other things than that everything is just negative. They're our kids. They are the ones who will try to become farmers forward. It is important that they are told that it is positive and that we do things, so that they have faith in the future. It's incredibly important. Perhaps the Minister for Rural Development could do more to facilitate and strengthen Swedish agriculture. We are talking a little bit about the diesel tax. There's something you could do right away. The minister himself spoke of taking a strong stand to facilitate the rule jungle. There are other countries, such as Finland, which are good examples that the government, along with the green industry, is actually taking care of things. It's very important, because it can't make sense that a dairy farmer who also grows crops has over 600 rules to deal with. It is still stated in the environmental code that agriculture is environmentally dangerous. It's awfully strange for me. It has to be able to change; it doesn't have to stand like that. There are certainly more measures to take, and we have lots of things that we could tell you about here. My speaking time is almost up, but I am going to ask the Minister: what does the Minister intend to do in the short term so that it really makes a difference to the farmer at farm level?
i-d104247e52d4c631-520	Madam President, the interpellant and Magnus Oscarsson! Given that it's always a short time to answer questions, I'm going to focus a little bit on what I might not have got into so much in my first post. Time is running out quickly when you have a lot to say and the issue is urgent and important. This touches well what Magnus Oscarsson concluded with, namely what you do in addition to what is the food strategy. It is clear that there are a number of different other issues that are also important, not least in the short term. Here I think we need to highlight sector-specific issues, where the industries have been good and ahead. Then I think mostly of the successful label from Sweden that the industry itself has developed. It actually appeals to what is the biggest driver of change that is moving rapidly here and now, namely to influence consumers and consumer behaviour. This has had an enormous impact in a situation where we see that Swedes eat less meat but still eat more Swedish meat. The consumption of it goes up, which clearly shows that informed consumers make good choices – also for the Swedish farmer. I don't think it's primarily because it's Swedish, but because we stand for high quality products. I can only say that this is something that we need to help to promote more. I think that Swedish consumers are quite much on that ball. At least that's what it looks like if you look at the buying patterns that we have. Someone mentioned Denmark and Denmark's ability to be quickly on the market and to establish themselves. It is only to be noted that the Danes have been much more skilled than the Swedes in promoting the added value they have in what they produce. It is a question of high animal welfare, low antibiotic use and a few pesticides. What is needed is for us to make sure that we know about this and therefore also to get consumers to be prepared to pay for this added value. This is, of course, another way of ensuring that profitability is increased. We have taken the initiative on the subject so that we broaden the concept. It can be noted that Swedes eat more and more of their meals in a restaurant compared to how they have done before. You've changed your behavior. That is why we are now going in and preparing to be able to go to the EU and request permission for information of origin also in restaurants. I think that's going to be important. There are larger bulks, which affect the whole more. Another part that is under way and that we are looking at is that given the Swedish added value and the Swedish legislation, which I think we are jointly proud of, we want to make demands on public Sweden. It is about buying meals in schools, care for the elderly and other things and that you should then procure in accordance with Swedish law. So we want to go to Europe with such a request. This does not mean, of course, that you can say that you have to procure Swedish. But if any other country produces according to Swedish law, they are of course welcome to be on the ball. I think this is important. It is also about ensuring that you can get paid for the added value that you have in Swedish production. I hope that we will be able to agree to lift these parts. I believe that in the part about whether to get new farmers in place, we have challenges linked to generational change, investments and other things in the industry. But of course it is also a lot about what image we give of agriculture to interest young people, new people and make them want to invest in this part. It is clear that it is small farms and young people who are responsible for much of the innovation power. Here all good ideas are gratefully received.
i-d104247e52d4c631-531	Madam President, I would like It is clear that we in all ways that we can only spread a good picture of Swedish agriculture. But ultimately, much is about profitability and that we should be able to pay good wages to the young people who want to find their way into the industry. Then we definitely have a big problem with generational shifts and other things. There is incredibly large capital today, and it is very tied up capital. The issue that the Minister did not have time to raise, Madam President, was the impact of predators on the food strategy. I met a sheep farmer outside Finspång a couple of weeks ago who has much of their pastures on arable land. Then you can't get support for predator-repellent fences. For him it would cost about 2 million if he were to set up predator-rejecting fences on the entire arable land where his sheep graze. That's pretty much money for fences for a sheep producer. If we are to have as high a predatory pressure as we have today, which I do not of course think, in these areas – especially the broken landscape, where we have many of the valuable pastures – we will probably have to start thinking about how we provide support for predator-repellent fences. Then the next question is: how much is it going to cost to do predator management like this? We have to ask ourselves the question somewhere: what is the most important thing at this point – are they predators or is it our food production? I think we are having too little trouble with this when we talk about the food strategy, because this is going to be a very important part. Our pastures are an important part of the food strategy, and they are being threatened. Can we have some kind of problematisation about that, please?
i-d104247e52d4c631-536	Madam President and John Widegren! There are many issues that are interrelated. I'm trying to give you an idea that we're working strategically on the food strategy. It is based very much on the fact that we can be long-term. I share what has been said in the interpellation that we also need to work on some other issues, mainly linked to here-and-now issues. I can say that 2018 was a tough year for our farmers. At that time the policy went in quite broadly; we invested 1.57 billion in such a situation. It is all about somewhere that we need to ensure that we have reasonable competition neutrality vis-à-vis other countries. It is also an issue that we are watching hard in the CAP negotiations being conducted. Now John Widegren lifts up the wolf as a specific problem linked to, for example, sheep husbandry. I could also mention reindeer husbandry, to be honest, because it is the two areas that stand out in terms of injuries here. There is a work in progress at the moment that I have partly explained in the interpellation debate on wolf that we had just now. We are also taking a holistic approach now to look at administrative areas and remuneration levels. To this I will absolutely add that I will look at if there is anything that falls into what you can get compensation for. We are therefore taking as broad a holistic approach as possible to this. To be honest, you could also talk about wild boar management when raising challenges for agriculture. We will soon have an interpellation debate on this, so we will have the opportunity to develop on this. It is about the overall picture, and my message is that as a minister I am trying to take a concerted approach to all these issues. Some of the questions, not least linked to how you have worked with them in old cultures and so on, it takes time to turn around. But I am determined and determined that we should do it as well as possible in this area.
i-d104247e52d4c631-543	Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson has asked me what the government's powerful boar package means, what the SEK 13 million that the Swedish Board of Agriculture will be used for and when the government will present a proposal for the Swedish Food Administration's proposal. The government takes seriously the problems caused by wild boars for Swedish agriculture, among other things. Therefore, the government has decided to set aside a powerful wild boar package in the Food Strategy Action Plan Part 2. The contents of the package will be decided at the beginning of 2020. In total, part 2 of the food strategy contains measures for SEK 122 million annually until 2025. D in addition, additional investments of a total of SEK 114 million are made in 2020. The Swedish Food Safety Agency has been tasked with analysing and proposing simplified procedures for the marketing of wild boar meat. At the end of 2019, the Swedish Food Safety Agency presented its proposals. The report and its proposals are now being analysed, and an important starting point for the government is, in addition to the ambition to reduce the damage caused by wild boars, maintaining food safety, ensuring both food hygiene and meat quality. I am pleased that Magnus Oscarsson is looking forward to the government's wild boar package, but the necessary analyses must take their time. As promised, the government will return at the beginning of the year and present the contents of the boar package.
i-d104247e52d4c631-547	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. There are many who are seriously concerned about the large boar tribe in Sweden. In some parts of our country, the number of wild boars has grown out of control. Farmers, homeowners and road users are increasingly feeling the consequence. In fact, the presence of wild boars in some parts of the Swedish countryside has almost reached the limit of the intolerable. I visited only a few weeks ago a farmer in Viebäck outside Nässjö. He showed how the wild boars had really destroyed the farm wall. So it was only about a farmer and a field, but it was completely destroyed. Based on estimates made, we know that wild boars are destroying about 1.5 billion in agriculture. These may also be old figures; unfortunately, there may be much more. The number of wild boars is also increasing enormously, especially during these mild winters. During Christmas 2019, the government announced that it intended to present a powerful wild boar package during the spring. On the Government Office's website you can read that the Swedish Board of Agriculture for the implementation of a wild boar package may use SEK 13 million in 2020. Then another SEK 9 million each year comes up to 2025. The funds may be used only after further decisions by the Government. Madam President, I would like If I understand the Minister correctly, after this package comes another package in the spring where more money is raised in order to reduce the wild boar strain. The amount of 9 million a year that goes to the Swedish Board of Agriculture is, to say the least, thin. My question, then, is once again whether we will see another package, as it were, which is this powerful boar package that the government talked about before Christmas.
i-U2Wsmt3enk1rx3rvgmJoZK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Rural Affairs, for the answer about wild boars! There have been many proposals in the air for many years now as regards wild boars. From the Moderates' side, we have been driving many of them, such as what the government went out with in May last year where we let go of the use of moving lighting and night vision. These are measures that, in fact, I believe have produced results. I believe that more wild boar has been shot using these aids. I also believe that much more wild boar will be shot once we get the proposal for small-scale sales on the ground. What's a little unfortunate-- but that's the way it is in the world of politics-- is that these things take so long to get in place. Germany has had small-scale sales for many years, and it has worked very well. They sell 600 000 wild boars a year in Germany in this way – thus not saying they do not have damage and problems from wild boars. That is precisely what is behind the wild boars: the enormous damage they cause locally. This major problem is certainly not everywhere, but it is a major problem locally. Many times it is farmers who suffer. They do not have the right to hunt on the ground, but it has either a hunting team or a landowner. Then someone should try to run a farm without being able to deal with the wild boar problem. It is very difficult to go in and legislate on such things. Much of it can actually be agreed away – it is important to point that out. But what politics must do, and it is now going on, is to make it easier in every way to increase the shooting of wild boars. I saw the other day that the number of Trichinella-tested boars in 2019 was 137 500. If that number's correct, we've got a hell of an all-time high for the launch. I think 117 grand was great before. That would mean that we have significantly increased the launch. It can also mean that the tribe has become much larger, and then it is of course a problem. I think it is important that we, as politicians, now take all measures to facilitate wild boar shooting. It is positive that the government has taken a strong stance here and continues to want to take a strong stance. However, there are other problems with wild boars. I raised this a little in the previous interpellation debate, but now I got the chance to get back into the speaker's chair. I am thinking of the problem of African swine fever. We see African swine fever spreading rapidly throughout Europe, and wild boar accounts for a large part of that spread. Therefore, I simply wonder: do we have sufficient preparedness for what happens if African swine fever enters Sweden? It is enough that it enters a sausage sandwich in a truck, so we have got African swine fever in Sweden. In the worst of worlds, the question is no longer whether we get it, but when we get it to Sweden. We see how fast things have gone in the Baltics. Of course, some people will be happy. The wild boar tribes have basically disappeared. But for others, hunting wild boars can be an asset and an income. However, the greatest threat that African swine fever would pose is what it does to our Swedish domestic pig production. Therefore, while I have the chance, I would like to ask: is the preparedness enough, Madam President, to deal with African swine fever? Precisely in southeastern Sweden, where there is a risk of it coming in, we have extremely large strains of wild boar. Please problematize around the wild boar population against African swine fever!
i-d104247e52d4c631-563	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that, despite the late hour, we are still very committed to discussing issues that I believe touch us very deeply. As in one event, there is something of a red thread here, and it will continue in another interpellation debate in a moment. Again, I think it's good that you have the opportunity to both tie together and cave in different details. However, the form of this kind of debate is somewhat limited. I can see that this is a very priority issue, not least given the damage caused by wild boar strains, both on farms and in the form of road accidents and other things. We have a situation where the wild boar tribe grows in a completely unreasonable way, given that it has far too good a supply of food and really no natural enemies more than the hunters. Therefore, we have focused on first putting forward the proposals that are in place since last spring, linked to more and better hunting agents. Today it is basically possible to hunt wild boars all year round, round the clock – except that sows cannot be hunted during the time, which is right now, that they bear children. It is really the only limitation that exists. To this we have identified that we need to shoot more, but to shoot more we need to increase the interest to shoot more. The question then is to improve the outlets for wild boar meat to consumers, possibly through direct sales from hunters to consumers, and through shops and restaurants, so that consumers can easily create demand, a very important issue. Therefore, the Swedish Food Safety Agency received the assignment, which was reported just before Christmas. They made a number of concrete proposals which we are now analysing and which we will soon put on the table in a wild boar package. We're working as fast as we can. The question is urgent. At the same time, of course, we need to ensure that it is legal and good and that the process does not jeopardise issues such as health, legitimacy, that one can feel safe with the meat and so on. There are a number of aspects to be considered. I hope that Magnus Oscarsson and John Widegren are pleased that a Social Democratic Minister for Rural Development is now in fact likely to be able to deliver on this issue. It was investigated twice by the Alliance – it shows the complexity – but it did not manage to land in a proposal to the Swedish Parliament. So it is not as simple as it might sound. But I have great hopes that we will be able to deliver in the near future. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is also responsible for revising the national management plan. It is about how to manage and what guidelines exist for county boards and others. It will be completed in the spring and will be an important tool for dealing with these issues. I intend to come back to Parliament with a proposal to restrict feeding. It is a concern and drives the supply of food and probably the population. It is also an issue that could have been resolved in 2016, but the Alliance, together with SD, chose to send the question back to the government. I hope we can now work it out. We have had a great deal of ambition to negotiate with all the actors involved. Of course, not everyone will agree on exactly what is the optimal solution. But we see a need to get a solution in place, too, when it comes to that part.
i-d104247e52d4c631-572	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. What the Minister tells me about what is going on, I am delighted. It's important for a lot of people to hear that things are happening. It is also important that we engage in dialogue, as we are now doing in this House. I think we all agree that measures must be taken to reduce the feral pig population. It is good that we agree on that. It cannot continue as it is today. I am sorry to have to say this, but I do not see that there will be an improvement if there are not strong proposals. That's why it's important to hear this. As a Christian Democrat, I am also pleased that the Swedish Food Authority has come up with a number of good proposals. They are moving in the direction that we have proposed, for example, that hunters themselves be able to sell more wild boar meat, that Trichinella tests should be free of charge and more. My question actually concerns what the Minister was a bit on: regulated feeding. Will there be such a proposal? It seemed like the minister just said it. We Christian Democrats support such a proposal. But it is important that county boards know from the beginning that it is not possible to drive out, for example, tons of sugar beet. We believe that such things should not be legal. Will the government make such a proposal? As I said, we think it is important that people, whom we in Parliament work for, feel that what we come up with really makes a difference. I hope that the Minister will come to such a conclusion.
i-d104247e52d4c631-578	Madam President, I would like The wild boar, which we are now debating, is also a fantastic food. There are encouraging reports from around the country that municipalities are beginning to look at buying wild boar meat to serve it in both schools and elderly care. It's a great step to stimulate the launch. Madam President, I would like I am also a little curious about what the Minister mentioned at the end of the feeding issue. I was rather hesitant about the proposals that were on the table already in 2016. I believe that there is no one asking for a ban. I haven't met any organization that's asking for it. On the other hand, they want to steer up the okynese feeds of wild boars that still exist. In practice, however, they can actually be dealt with today, both through environmental and feed legislation. I do not believe that this is being done sufficiently. Instead, I think we should consider the type of feed that should be used. Most wild animals in the southern half of Sweden do not need to eat root vegetables. However, consideration can also be given to establishing distances between feeding places and busy roads, sensitive crops and property boundaries. A ban and also the other proposals would be a direct restriction of property rights. I therefore believe that it is difficult for us to justify this. I think there are other feeding solutions and I would like to hear how the Minister thinks on this particular issue.
i-d104247e52d4c631-582	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the interpellants once again. Magnus Oscarsson points out that there must be a change and that one has not yet happened. I disagree. There's a change. We can see this clearly, with the tools available, such as increased opportunities for displacement and industries themselves, hunter associations and others, who offer to push off and so on. The problem is – I think that's why Magnus Oscarsson says – that it doesn't help the total. It is still not a reasonable administration, given that the tribe is so large, that it does not have enough natural enemies and that the supply of food is great. Now, for example, we have a mild winter. This is likely to mean that the population will increase directly, as there is a good supply of food. Nor is there any frost or cold that leads to self - death, which may normally be part of this season. It's troubling. It has major consequences, for entrepreneurs and individuals as well as traffic statistics and so on. That is why the issue is a priority. Again, I think we need to be prepared to use all the tools. I believe, however, that it is wise to introduce them, evaluate them and be prepared to proceed with new efforts if they are not sufficient or fail to achieve the objective. It's a clear message. In my previous reply, I did not have time to say anything about John Widegren's question about African swine fever. Of course, that would probably mean fewer wild boars. That does not mean, however, that we want it. The fact that they are many does not mean that they are more likely to take up infection. But if we were to get infection to Sweden, there would probably be an uncontrolled spread, because they are many and spread over large areas. The biggest problem, of course, is that it would affect our Swedish pig farms in a devastating way. That is why we have taken steps to be as prepared as possible. According to the information I'm receiving, we're on good alert. This does not mean that it would not be a very difficult situation if we got the infection to Sweden. Much is about information, preparedness and so on. I have great confidence in our authorities in case we have to deal with a difficult situation where we get the infection to Sweden. Sweden is also working with other EU countries on information and other activities. I think it's important. I also received specific questions about feeding, which I think is important in this context. There is a great demand for a ban, not least from farmers who are affected. The question is difficult. It concerns ownership issues and other matters, which John Widegren has raised. What we have done now is to listen to all the stakeholders and various issues that exist and have tried to find a reasonable balance based on the fact that the issue has been in Parliament and turned around. We are also very keen to find something that we can move on with to get a restriction on something that I understand is a major problem. I will not say much about the proposal, because it will be referred in the near future. I imagine that I will have new interpellations about the content of it as soon as it becomes known. Given the discussions that have taken place, it is reasonable to look at the ban on feeding related to a certain limited area, which may be limited in time and which weighs in a number of different values. You'll have to give yourself up until we present it, which will happen quite soon.
i-d104247e52d4c631-592	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for a very interesting discussion and dialogue that we have had here during the debate, in which John also took part! It's been very good. As we were on, a lot of things have happened. Several measures have been taken and more will be done. But still, Minister, there are problems. A while ago, a survey went out to 6,800 LRF members. 70 percent of all respondents had been injured by wild boars. So this is an incredibly important issue. The food strategy, which we talked about in the previous debate, is important to many. A problem arises when you notice that wild boars do not allow you to produce food in the way you want. I even know people who say they're thinking about quitting because it's no longer possible. That is why something must be done. However, it feels as if the Minister has several things going on, which I think is very positive. An important question to ask the Minister is: when will the proposals come? Can we wait six months or a year? We in the Christian Democrats are more concerned that this should be regulated. We think it is important that we know what is at stake right from the start. The county administrative boards around our country, especially in the counties that are having a very tough time, should know that you cannot drive out tons of sugar beet, for example. It must be regulated by law. We think it's important. We also have to work to have more hunters who can hunt boars. It is important to think about supporting them as much as we can.
i-d104247e52d4c631-597	Madam President, I would like I feel that we have a great deal of consensus, both that this is a problem and that we need to take action to tackle the problem. We have already taken action and more are in the pipeline. I do not rule out the need for further action. Very important in this context is to have an effective evaluation of what gives good and desired effect and what does not. I was asked about when. If I was not clear enough in my previous speeches, we are preparing the Food Safety Agency's proposal for increased sales to consumers and intend to make a proposal at the beginning of 2020. We are now in February. For me, the beginning of the year extends until Easter. That's the timeframe I'm working on hypothetically. We must, of course, ensure that the whole thing is legally secure and is up to date so that the proposal can be sent out for consultation. There is no reason to be so quick that you have to back down because you have not done the procedures properly. All of us who work with politics and have done it for a long time know that you as politicians always want to be really fast. However, we need to take account of the fact that this is legally certain and that we deliver this seriously. The same goes for feeding. We have had long discussions with all stakeholders. Not everyone in this House will get exactly what you want in terms of how it should be designed. However, it is good that you want very much. At the same time, however, I expect us all to recognise that this is a problem for which we need to take responsibility and bring to the lowest common denominator. It is not constructive to block or send back a question. We have really tried to have a constructive dialogue. I hope you've appreciated it. I also hope that this will enable us to deliver in this area. Not least, the farmers are asking for this. This is very important. Thank you for a good and constructive debate! I look forward to continuing it.
i-d104247e52d4c631-603	Madam President, I would like Betty Malmberg has asked me what measures I intend to take with regard to the acute shortage of animal nurses and veterinarians. In recent years, demand for and supply of animal health care has risen sharply. In animal health care there are today advanced diagnostic tools and treatment options that are in principle fully comparable to those used in human care. In its report "Better competition for more people to change animal insurance", the Competition Authority has reported that the turnover of private veterinary activities conducted in the form of limited liability companies has increased by 38 per cent between 2013 and 2016. These developments have greatly contributed to the shortage of veterinarians and animal nurses. Since 2007, the number of training places at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, SLU, has been 100 per year. In recent years, in several steps, SLU has increased the number of training places for animal nurses from 40 to 80. At the same time, the National Board of Agriculture has decided on temporary derogations so that, after some training and experience, non-certified staff may carry out items that should be reserved for those who are licensed, for example, when it comes to anaesthetizing animals. The so-called fast track for newly arrived veterinarians was a successful collaboration between SLU and Arbetsförmedlingen, which ended in 2018 and resulted in nearly all 20 participants receiving a licence as a veterinary nurse. Happily, a new fast track was recently started. These projects provide a welcome addition of animal health personnel. District veterinarians are also affected by the veterinary shortage and the fact that private operators are no longer able to meet the needs of certain areas. R egeringen has therefore increased the funds allocated to veterinary field operations by SEK 15 million in 2020 and 2021 and SEK 20 million in 2022. Agrifood is currently carrying out an analysis of the veterinary market. This includes analysing the nature of the shortage of veterinarians and the need for measures to improve the functioning of the market. I would also like to mention that both professional organisations, industry and authorities work together in different contexts to increase knowledge and try to find solutions to the shortage of animal health personnel. Animal welfare is a priority for the government. The resulting shortage of animal nurses and veterinarians is serious. There are many reasons for the shortcomings that have arisen. I will take note of the results of the activities under way and assess whether, and if so what, further action should be taken by the government.
i-d104247e52d4c631-612	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Government for its answer, but I must admit that I was disappointed. We politicians are sometimes accused of being unclear and not answering questions, and I have to say that unfortunately this interpellation response was an example of that. I asked a clear question in which I wondered what the Minister for Rural Development intended to do to remedy the acute shortage of veterinarians and animal nurses. But the answer does not mention a word about it. Instead, an exposé of various facts is given on the subject. The Minister also concludes his reply by saying that animal welfare is a priority for the government. The resulting shortage of animal nurses and veterinarians is serious. Yet no answer is given as to how you intend to work to solve this. This is serious, as this deficiency goes out on the animals. Surely it must feel hard for the horse owner in southern Sweden who recently had to drive four hours to get help and get an emergency operation from the horse's legs. And it must be tough for the horse girl in northern Sweden, who already lost a horse, to find that where she lives is colic – a disease that affects about one in five horses – equals a death sentence for the horse due to the veterinary shortage. These are everyday situations that show that something clearly needs to be done. The Moderates have seen these problems and needs. Our budget therefore proposed to increase the number of training places on the veterinary programme by 10% and on the animal health care programme by 25%. Interested students exist. These are two of the courses in Sweden for which there is the greatest search pressure. There will therefore be no problem with empty training places. This search print is so great that on the veterinary side there are many students who even choose to study abroad to get their dream education. But they will study at their own expense. How do you know this? When you look at who collects IDs after graduation, it turns out that as many as 57 per cent have a foreign education with them in their luggage. This is not sustainable. Sweden should do its own homework and expand education, as the Moderates suggest. This was done by the Alliance government in connection with the medical and dental program. At the time, there was a similar situation with many travelling abroad. As I said, it is not sustainable. Sweden has a good reputation for animal welfare, animal health and low antibiotic use. We also have good conditions for livestock production both in terms of pasture land and access to clean water. The food strategy also states that Swedish livestock production in an international comparison is relatively sustainable and should therefore be given good opportunities to increase. But for that reason we cannot leave farmers and owners in the lurch when they have problems with their animals and the animals need treatment. Then we must be able to access professional skills and be able to call in the help that is actually needed. I'm going to give the minister one more chance to answer my question. What steps does the Government intend to take to remedy this acute shortage that actually exists?
i-d104247e52d4c631-620	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking my colleague, Betty Malmberg, for a very good interpellation. This is an issue that is close to our heart. More and more people see their pets as family members. If you get sick, you want an equivalent care for them no matter where you live in the country. During the summer several animal hospitals closed down their emergency activities due to the lack of veterinarians and animal health workers. This meant that our pets risked unnecessary suffering. And in the worst case, they could have died because they did not receive the right care at the right time. This feels terrible to think about, especially if you are an animal owner – that even animals should not get the help they need if they get sick, get hit by a car, get bitten by a snake or if there are complications when they are pregnant and are about to give birth to puppies or kittens. The list can be made long. Madam President, I would like Then why does it look like it does? With regard to the supply of competence for Swedish animal health care, there is, to say the least, a crisis when the shortage of both veterinarians and animal health care providers is enormous. There is no shortage of people who want to educate themselves, as my colleague mentioned. The search pressure in the training places is huge. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the rural minister's reply did not contain anything about what should be done about the shortage of veterinarians and animal carers. What the Minister has written is a list of measures which have already been taken and which have proved completely inadequate.
i-d104247e52d4c631-626	Madam President, I would like I don't feel safe about this. The Minister for Rural Development should know what the main causes of the shortcomings are. It doesn't require any further investigation. The veterinary shortage is due to the fact that the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences does not train enough veterinarians, either today or historically, for Swedish needs. Swedes were educated abroad long before EU entry, mainly in Denmark. However, after EU entry, Swedes are also highly educated in Hungary. This has happened on such a large scale that the Danes have had to limit the number of places for Swedish veterinary students for many years. They simply got tired of training Swedish veterinarians for the Swedish labour market. Unfortunately, SLU has not taken these signals seriously and increased the scope of Swedish education sufficiently. Of those who received their veterinary ID in 2018, 57 per cent had a foreign education. Madam President, I would like The increase in turnover in the industry, to which the Minister refers, is mainly about the fact that we are carrying out increasingly advanced and more expensive health care. The number of pets in the country has not increased by 38 percent. On the contrary, it has been almost constant for decades. The lack of qualified animal health care providers has been created. It was created by the fact that the introduction of the licence requirement was never synchronised with a reasonably dimensioned training effort. The 80 seats that SLU now wants to emphasize were offered only in autumn 2018, so none of these 80 are even out on the labour market. Thus, it took eight years for the number of training places to increase from 40 to 80 annually from the introduction of the licence requirement on 1 January 2010.
i-d104247e52d4c631-631	Madam President, I would like I thank Betty Malmberg and Marléne Lund Kopparklint for these issues. These are also very important questions. It is quite clear that we have a problem with the availability of veterinarians in Sweden. This problem did not arise yesterday or even last year, but it has happened for a historic period of time. You'd like to bet on more places. The Social Democrats and the Moderates tend to agree in this context, however, given that Betty Malmberg and I may have a business policy perspective more than an educational policy perspective linked to these issues. However, it is surely the case that politicians in both our parties think that higher education institutions are better suited to determine how they dimension their places of education. However, some of us feel that there is a need for a clearer link with business and business needs. I can note that it is inscribed in SLU's regulatory letter that account should be taken of the needs of the labour market. Having said that, however, I also understand the challenges of dimensioning this type of education in a very short time, especially when not very long ago it was the case that those who make recommendations and assess future labour needs rather felt that the need would be reduced, which runs counter to the development that we are now seeing. I can also note that the two Members are, in some sense, targeting two different species of animals here. It's a little interesting in itself. What can be seen in this context is that we have a sharp increase in demand for veterinary services, which mainly drives the private market to both certain types of segments, i.e. small animals, and some parts of the country – densely populated areas where money can be made. It is market logic and sound from an entrepreneurial perspective that you do so. But given that there is a shortage that has accumulated over time, it is clear that this has consequences, not least linked to the needs of agriculture. Betty Malmberg highlights cows and horses – large animals. But there will also be a concern linked to certain parts of the country and certain parts of the day. My picture is that you need to take a fairly unified grip. Of course, you need to look at the conditions for finding tools and incentives for more training places and driving that development, but it will take time before that solution generates new veterinarians on the market. There is also a need to look at how to ensure that the private options available reasonably take responsibility for the availability of, for example, all hours on call, every day of the week. As it is now, this is a cost and a commitment that largely goes to the district veterinarians, and I may think it is a little unreasonable that we are forced to spend money to ensure that the operation works. There's something we've done. If you want rapid results in this area, you need to work with the tools that we have done. I do not share the picture that I did not answer the questions. We work to have a dialogue with the industry to identify how the industry and stakeholders – both those who are veterinarians and those in need of veterinary services – look at the problem and at quick solutions. I think it is wise to have a good basis for decision-making. We've been working on fast tracks, to take another example, and we're going to continue working on fast tracks. Then we get trained veterinarians or animal nurses who can quickly enter the labour market.
i-d104247e52d4c631-637	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I share the picture of history and that something should have been done much earlier than is the case, but the Minister goes a little away when we talk about this with how training places are dimensioned. A training place on the veterinary program costs about 1 1⁄2 million. It is therefore not something that the university itself can arrange; one cannot suddenly spare so much money that one can dimension this up to an adequate level. That's why it's important that the government then adds money, just as the Moderates did, and just as the Alliance government did with the medical and dental program, which is also extremely expensive training. That we want to increase the number of training places is wise, but it is a long-term solution and no quickfix. However, we also have some quick-footed proposals, and this applies, for example, to foreign veterinarians who work here in Sweden for a period of time. Today they are unable to keep their records in the English language. Doctors may do so in human health, but it is not allowed for veterinarians. It feels a little strange that there is a distinction between human health care and animal health care in this. Similarly, those who have trained as animal carers, i.e. at upper secondary level, do not have the same powers as a nurse today. It also feels a little anno dazumal and strange. There are certain exemptions that will apply until 2023 to the animal welfare services themselves, so that they will be given a little more powers, but the derogations will run the risk of disappearing in a few years' time. This will make the whole staffing situation more difficult for animal health personnel. The Minister's answer to the question is very much that it is a market situation and that the private operators benefit in different ways at the expense of the district veterinarians. But the fact is that many people have gone to private operators because of the working conditions of district scientists. I hope that the 15 million government is now making a contribution to working conditions, so that the activities of the district veterinarians are given priority – and so that agricultural animals are given priority. For the district veterinarians are heavily burdened. The Caliber radio programme recently mentioned how tough working conditions they have. Instead of going into the wall, they basically take other ways of coping with their personal life. I also find it strange that the district veterinarians today treat small animals to such an extent, because that is not really their mission. In half of the meetings with animal patients, it is therefore small animals they treat, and it does not feel really relevant given the great needs of farm animals. I would like the Minister to comment on the measures which might be a little more of a quick fix and which the Moderates are proposing here. This also applies to how to strengthen and improve working conditions for district veterinarians.
i-d104247e52d4c631-644	Madam President, I would like According to the industry organisation Green Employers, Municipal and Swedish Animal Health Care, recruitment needs for the next twelve months are approximately 275 veterinarians and about 175 animal health care workers. Since these courses are under SLU, it is we MPs, but above all the government, who are responsible for the issue. Several things need to be initiated quickly. The number of places at SLU needs to be increased, but that is not enough. We have proposed several things, as my colleague put it, but in addition to that, we want to see more education providers – for example other universities, universities of applied sciences and distance learning – to meet the most urgent need. We also need to improve the quality of upper secondary education to animal health care providers. There is a need for a professional category corresponding to nurses in health care for people. Today, the powers of animal carers are very limited, despite the fact that education is equally extensive. It is not reasonable for a nurse to carry out a number of medical interventions on a person while it is far more restrictive as to what animal carers may do on an animal. Today, animal carers are allowed to work with these extended tasks under exceptions to the treatment ban, precisely because they saw the need, but the exceptions only apply until 31 December 2023. These are exceptions that we think should be permanent, together with an examination of the professional categories. We note that the policy would have needed to secure animal health care in Sweden yesterday in order to ensure the safety of our animals, Madam President. Animals should receive the right care at the right time regardless of where they live. This is not an issue that can be waved away, Madam President-farm animals and pets should not be subjected to unnecessary suffering or die because of a lack of animal health care. This is an animal welfare issue that must be given priority.
i-d104247e52d4c631-648	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellants. I can only emphasise that I share the view that this is an animal welfare issue that needs priority. On the other hand, I think that, possibly because I am not in opposition, I see a little more the complexity of finding the smart, fast solutions. My picture is that here, as elsewhere, we need a good basis for making decisions. My way of gaining input is always to try to have as good a dialogue as possible with the relevant stakeholders. In the dialogue that is now in place, stakeholders and sectors – and I mean both the veterinary industry, that is, those who provide services in relation to animal welfare, and those who need services in relation to animal welfare, such as farmers and others – will be heard, describe what the problems look like and say how they see practical and possible solutions. I think it's important. At the same time, one should certainly work with fast-footed proposals, as Betty Malmberg put it, within the framework of what is possible and reasonable. When it comes to foreign veterinarians and their ability to keep records in English, for example, it is, spontaneously, a reasonable proposal that might be handled quickly. I have not heard about this particular problem, but I assume that it will come up in the kind of dialogue that is now in place with the industries; that is a little bit what they are for. If the proposals are reasonable, we should deal with them quickly. Otherwise, I believe very much in the tools that are, for example, about fast track – that we ensure that people who come to Sweden and who have this type of competence have the opportunity to get in and get a licence more quickly so that they can practice the profession. Training places have been extended from 40 to 80 for a fairly long period, and I can see that 20 plus 20 places in the fast track have actually been a fast and effective way of increasing volume. I think you need to do more there. At the same time, these are now licence professions. We have had transitional rules that have been linked to the introduction of a licence in these professions that have not existed before, and that has been good and necessary. There were a lot of people who had worked for a very long time and who had a lot of experience in this area that needed to get different ways to validate this knowledge and to get their IDs. However, I do not think it is a good way to deal with the issue in the long term to have a system for double ways of obtaining identification and belonging. It will be difficult to justify to people why they should take the training route to obtain a licence for this profession if there are parallel sidings or other – if we are talking about fast track in this area – which is going about as fast. I think that would be unfortunate, although I believe that validation as a concept in general is an important tool. I spoke earlier about the market. In fact, I think it is necessary to decide whether you are prepared to go in and direct the market in this area. Given the development that is taking place in the field of technical aids – that is, the possibility of curing animals as advanced as we cure humans; it is today hip replacement surgery on small animals – and that there are paying consumers who buy this type of service, and given that it will take time to find a way to get a balance here, I think it is still reasonable to consider how we ensure that we have good animal welfare and good access to veterinarians throughout the country every day of the year and for all species of animals.
i-d104247e52d4c631-656	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Rural Development for his constructive response and for at least being prepared to listen to what kinds of proposals we could get on the roll here and now. I share the Minister's positive view of the fast track; it is certainly a positive activity. At the same time, we know that a two-three disappeared. There was a break, and some of the immigrant academics who had some remaining remains and who were often actually competent veterinarians in their home country were then unable to do their rest exams. I note that the government may not be prepared to act on the great need for veterinarians. There are 267 vets missing. There are 89 specialist veterans missing. It is also about the skills available at upper secondary level. If we do not get this expertise on the ground, it does not benefit any animals, at least those farmed animals that will contribute to Swedish competitiveness and export of internationally sustainable food. I said at the outset, Madam President, that I was a little disappointed with the answer I had received. That is because a colleague of mine asked me a corresponding question ten months ago and received an answer in principle that is the same. More than half of the answer was in principle the same, even then with the confident commitment that the issue is a priority and that the Minister is closely following the rapid developments. This doesn't hold. Despite the positive things that the Minister is now saying, I hope that the Minister will take on board the message of the Moderates and be infected by our commitment to this issue.
i-d104247e52d4c631-661	Madam President, I would like I am always sympathetic to listening to constructive thoughts and ideas, so I certainly take on board what is highlighted in the debate. As far as the fast track is concerned, I can see that Betty Malmberg has a point, of course, in that this is based on the fact that there is enough money in labour market policy. What made them disappear after 2018 until this year, which I think Betty Malmberg and the Moderates need to take responsibility for, was that they sharply cut down in labour market policy and gave less opportunities in that area. I am very much in favour of finding constructive solutions, but one also needs to look at the whole in all the different areas and realise that different policies have an impact. With regard to training places, which I feel is at the heart of what the interpelletor highlights with this debate, we have a need that is greater than the number of training places. It is important that we continue to have a dialogue and evaluate the future of the labour market. It is obvious that this is a large amount of money per place of education, but it is also associated with major challenges to switch up volume. It is not just about money on the spot, it is also about having given a very pressured market able to receive trainees. You should be able to solve all parts, which is one of the reasons why SLU does not jump directly on the opportunity and try to claim that this would be easy. But given that there is still a major shortage, I assume that SLU will do what they are encouraged to do and look at the needs of the labour market, also linked to these issues. I have no reason to believe anything else at this point. I also note that we are spending money on the district veterinarians. We do this in order to address the challenges that exist, including in terms of their working environment.
