i-4e518e9df739b4f3-3	Madam President, I would like We are currently debating three separate matters: Property Law, Housing Policy and Planning and Construction. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4 of CU13 Property law for a review of Lantmäteriet. Madam President, I would like Lantmäteriet and its services are a prerequisite for real estate to be cut off where new housing can be built. They decide on the change of existing borders, on commons, on servits– yes, the list can be made long. Common to all the work done by Lantmäteriet is that it is difficult to avoid dealing with them if you want to build new buildings, agricultural properties, infrastructure or new economic activities. Lantmäteriet is a little everywhere, you might say. Lantmäteriet as a state authority has a responsibility to carry out its important tasks so that we can continue to develop Sweden. Unfortunately, it does not always work as it should at Lantmäteriet. A report from the Swedish Parliament's investigation service from last year states that for several years long processing times in the proceedings are a major challenge for SLM. Lack of competence, outdated administrative support and a way of working that does not ensure progress in the cases are seen as contributing factors. SLM has taken several initiatives to address the problems, but any substantial improvement is not expected to be achieved until the longer term. JO has repeatedly criticised Lantmäteriet for slow and passive handling. One of Lantmäteriet's actions to respond to the criticism has been to gradually complete the agency's tasks since 2015 – listen! More than five years old. ..................................................... The same report compares Sweden's Lantmäteri with its sister authorities in our Nordic neighbours. It turns out – unfortunately, I can only say – that Sweden is the worst when it comes to processing times and also the most expensive. This doesn't hold. Now the government has to deal with the problem. Lantmäteriet has an important social task and must not be the brake block in social development that it has now become. In order to overcome the problems, we believe that a general review of Lantmäteriet's activities is needed. We also believe that it should be easier for municipalities to set up their own municipal surveying authorities. It is the government's task to take the necessary initiatives. What we are now saying should be supported by the Parliament and announced to the government. Madam President, I would like Having a home that you can call your home is a matter of course for most but only a dream for too many. Sweden has a housing situation with growing exclusion areas where overcrowding and unsafe secondary contracts prevail. We have an EBO legislation that allows municipalities to say no to settlement in certain areas but still allows municipalities with misdirected goodness to say yes to new residents in already overcrowded apartments and in areas where exclusion and integration are minimal. It has also been shown in these coronatides that the spread of infection has been particularly widespread in areas characterised by overcrowding. In my own municipality of residence, Social Democratically controlled Borås, two districts classified as alienation areas have increased their population by 15–20 per cent in recent years– without new apartments having been added to these areas, i.e. people moving into already inhabited, crowded apartments. But the red-green rule sees no need to limit the migration, even though this would give those who already live there a real opportunity to enter Swedish society. The road to integration, Madam President, does not go through overcrowding in vulnerable areas. It goes through a conscious housing and integration policy, both at national level and in the municipalities. Madam President, I would like A dwelling is so much more than four walls and a roof. It is a ticket into society and adult life and a prerequisite for starting a family and scale up or, later in life, scale down. The housing situation in Sweden is described as a housing crisis by almost everyone. Some people don't see it that way. The red-green government, which has not been able to come up with any proposals on how to resolve the crisis, obviously does not – unless it is that they see extended square metres in attefallshus or building permits-free terraces as part of the solution. Of course, we Moderates continue to support the moderate proposals which are now being dealt with in a simplified way in case CU10 Housing Policy. Unfortunately, we can only conclude that after almost six years in power the current government does not have a functioning housing policy, but we Moderates promise to come back to this House with proposals that Sweden and we who have a living or are struggling for a living so badly need. It needs Sweden, it deserves Sweden, it has Sweden's right to demand, and we can only hope that the Red-Green Government, in the absence of its own policy, takes on board our proposals on how to solve the housing crisis. I look forward to continuing the debate on housing policy in Sweden.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-18	Madam President, I would like Lantmäteriet maps Sweden and society with advanced and detailed maps, an information that is becoming increasingly important in several areas of society. It is therefore important to make so-called geodata available in order to further develop digitalisation and increase the efficiency of the civil engineering process, i.e. to simplify planning and implementation, while at the same time shortening build-times and reducing costs at all stages, something that undoubtedly needs to be done in today's crisis-stricken housing market. In addition, easy access to up-to-date geodata would have more and more effects. Not least, we can learn from the terrible events that took place in Västmanland in 2014, when almost 14 000 hectares of forest burned down and firefighters fought day and night for many months to control the extensive fires. The rescue service's work was delayed because of the use of old, unupdated maps. In the current situation, there should be a great understanding that work on issues that increase the possibility of preparation and allow society to act quickly when necessary is incredibly important. Furthermore, Madam President, opening up geodata would enable more companies to develop both existing and new services. Sweden has always been at the forefront of digitalisation, both of public services and of citizens and companies. There are therefore great opportunities here. In conclusion, updated maps are of great importance to many parts of our society and would contribute to a number of positive effects. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats propose that the latest updated maps should be made available to everyone, free of charge. I therefore support the joint reservation No 2 by the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats in the report CU13, Property Law.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-22	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the CU13. The Center Party wants to open up parts of Lantmäteriet to competition in order to get faster handling and improve access to surveying services. This needs to be done at the same time as the agency develops its work on geodata, digitalisation and improved service to citizens and municipalities. The reason why we want a faster procedure – it can take several years today – is that it is serious that one prefers to abstain from a real estate business rather than wait for an execution. It is true that the agency has improved its handling of older cases, i.e. those over five years old, but that is not enough. The number of cases has decreased both with the national authority and with some municipal authorities. This is not a positive development because it shows that the number of proceedings is decreasing. This, in turn, may be a sign of a halt to the construction of society. Another reason for opening up competition and catching up with the agency is to be able to keep the trained surveyors in competition with construction companies and consultants. Madam President, I would like I request the assent of CU13 to reservation 4. I'm going to the CU10. With the continued decline in housing construction and the continued poor functioning of the housing market, where 600 000 dwellings are still missing and 240 of the country's 290 municipalities indicate a housing shortage of some kind, there is much to be done. The basis for a better functioning rental market has been laid with the January agreement's points on free leasing in new production, a mapping and measures that will increase the impact of the situation in the leasing process and an independent dispute settlement procedure when leasing negotiations are under way. We expect this in the long term to improve the functioning of the rental market and increase the construction of rental apartments. We also want to facilitate ownership and expand the possibility to borrow for their first home. That is why we want to see the introduction of housing savings. There are successful examples of this in our neighbouring countries. Madam President, I would like We also want us to start work on a housing policy in which we ensure that more residential areas are better transformed into social housing environments. Despite fine words, the Swedish housing market players have not performed, and it is individuals who are affected. There are deterrent examples, but also good ones, in our neighbourhood. There are places that have succeeded in what can be perceived as a dream – to transform alienation and precarious environments into attractive living environments where people choose to stay even when their economic situation improves. Gårdsten outside Gothenburg is one such example and the only residential area so far that has been removed from the police's list of particularly vulnerable areas. Many have made study visits to Gårdstensbostäder and marveled at what they have achieved by interacting with industry and civil society and involving the residents in their work. Madam President, I would like Property owners have also developed a method support that they call BID S in Swedish. Unlike in the USA, for example, there is no legal support in Sweden to induce uninterested property owners to engage if there is a majority that wants to cooperate. Good examples and general ambitions are not enough. Pressure needs to be put on the players, and perhaps some kind of legislative change is needed. Our reservation is about setting up an investigation that identifies the need for legislative change and establishes knowledge about BID as a collaborative model to increase security and reduce crime. I request the assent of CU10 to reservation 1. So to the third report, CU16, Planning and construction. Unfortunately, the Coronandem has begun to influence the construction process. Some municipalities have put the brakes on their own construction plans. This runs counter to what would be needed now that uncertainty is increasing among housing investors about how demand will be affected by an economic crisis such as the one we see. We see short-term lay-offs and even construction workers going into unemployment. But Sweden should not stop building. We still need housing, schools, sports halls, premises, roads and other infrastructure. I would like to take this opportunity to call for projects to be brought forward rather than delayed, in order to prevent the construction industry from suffering a total decline as well. Madam President, I would like In order to make it easier for people to get a home and to shorten the time from idea to finished house, we need to increase the pace of construction, which we can achieve through reduced costs and shorter processing times. Some of this is now being reviewed as part of the January Agreement. The Center Party is not content with this. We believe, for example, that the suitability of construction is not determined by whether noise guidelines are achieved, but by whether people actually want to live there and whether the disruptions can be removed. Madam President, I would like It will be easier to build in the countryside, close to the beach, and also free of praise if you want to build a riding house, a café or similar. The requirement for planning should be reduced if it is outside cities and agglomerations it should be built. Above all, it needs to be economically beneficial to build housing where the need exists. But it is difficult to get the calculation to go together for the small housing company, which cannot handle a direct write-off. Here we ask to be allowed to return. This report, the CU16, deals with many of our proposals in a simplified way. We therefore call for the proposal in the report to be approved and refer to our specific opinions.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-37	Madam President, I would like Housing construction in Sweden has declined in recent years, and the year we are now in will not be an exception. Corona, as we see, also strikes at housing construction, and measures are needed in the future to ensure that the tap is as small as possible. Signals are strong when it comes to halted projects and the difficulty of financing both larger and smaller projects in the near future. This can, of course, be a snapshot and, in time, will change when we return to normal – what normal will mean now. Our focus in the near future should be to get projects stopped and to agree on measures that facilitate it, hopefully with mixed types of housing, much for the sake of the social dimension. I think it would then help to set actual targets in speeches and put forward proposals that are working towards that goal. It is about how many rental apartments per year are to be built, how many residential apartments and how many small houses are to be built. Without a goal in numbers, we're in the dark. It feels a bit like we can drive in any direction, because the target is unclear and it will be as it will be. Politics must take firmer hold on housing construction, set targets and work towards them. I believe that the objectives must consist of three parts: rental apartments, flats and small houses. All three elements are important and require their share of attention, but we must ensure that even smaller projects receive attention and support. This can be about individuals who want to build a house for their family or small house builders who build 10, 15 or 20 small houses in an area. These smaller projects have a major impact on society from a social perspective if they stop off or fail. Here we have a common responsibility to get the wheels going as soon as possible when we get on the other side of the crisis. Then it is perhaps possible to start talking about housing couples, starting loans or lightening the amortisation requirements in a longer perspective. You might even look at the mortgage ceiling and even agree on a housing building target in numbers. We Christian Democrats are constructive and are waiting for an invitation to housing talks. We have wished that the whole term of office. Madam President, I would like We are responsible for the real estate division in Sweden and provide the community – the public sector, business and private individuals – with information about geography and real estate. This is how Lantmäteriet writes about its activities on its website. For me, Lantmäteriet is an important piece of the puzzle so that we can build and manage the number of homes that we need to build in Sweden. It could even be said that it is a key element in bringing about housing construction at a rapid pace. In a time of housing shortage, friends of order can consider how Lantmäteriet manages its processing times, which are linked to housing construction. According to the figures available, there is a wide distribution of the time taken to deal with a case. It can take 23 weeks in Blekinge to 52 weeks in Västra Götaland or 80 weeks in Stockholm. For me, it is a very strange signal when we politicians talk about housing shortages and then let the processing times of an authority that is central to the possibility of building be this long. Long processing times cost not only time but also money, because projects need to go on unnecessarily long when we do not have the courage to take the necessary measures politically. For many years, criticism has been levelled at long processing times in the field of plan implementation. When municipalities have made decisions on building rights, often after a long processing period in detailed planning matters, it is of the utmost importance that property owners and developers can quickly get decisions on building permits or changes in property classification. It is time we saw the whole picture. If we are not brave enough to give Lantmäteriet the resources needed to shorten processing times, we must think again. In our reservation, we believe that some of the activities carried out by Lantmäteriet can be carried out by consultants or other companies in order to speed up the processes and free up the capacity of Lantmäteriet for the tasks that are most important and must be done by an authority. That is how this task is solved in other countries. It should not be foreign to us in cold Sweden either. We believe that there are many good forces in the form of companies and consultants who want and can take on those parts of the business that do not necessarily need to be done by an authority. If we are serious about increasing housing construction, we must resolve the issue of Lantmäteriet's processing times. Madam President, I would like Building land and planning dimensions are also a major problem in housing construction. Private right of initiative can be one way to overcome this. Overplanning of buildable land in the municipalities is a road that we believe we can try. This means shorter processes, cheaper housing construction and the possibility for us to catch up with housing construction in many of our municipalities. Building land should be transparent and visible to the public. We believe that the county boards can be parties to this and can help to identify what can be buildable land. If you do not dare to let the county boards be involved in the process, I do not know what the national dimension can contribute at all. The committee says that it thinks this is a municipal matter. The municipal plan monopoly is strong. This means that you nationally lose the opportunity to control housing construction in Sweden, which I find boring. With this, I would like to endorse reservation 4 of the CU13 and reservation 1 of the CU16.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-51	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of CU3 Amendment No 3. A dwelling is much more than just a place to live. It is a basic security that gives people freedom to develop. Too many people are currently constrained by a malfunctioning housing market. The housing shortage is great. Young people are forced to stay at home instead of experiencing the freedom of moving to their first home, and older people are forced to stay in the villa even though they want to move to something smaller and simpler. Families with children live cramped to get their finances together. The housing market needs to change in many areas to become a functioning market where supply meets demand. More people need to have the opportunity to own their own home, move chains need to be facilitated and more housing needs to be built. An important step towards a functioning housing market has now been initiated through the study on freer leasing in new production that the Liberals, together with the other January parties, have recently presented. Madam President, I would like However, housing policy is not just about a functioning housing market and more housing. It is also about children's right to grow up in a safe and pleasant area. It is about children's right to have high ambitions and faith in the future. And it's like we're all supposed to be proud of the area in which we live. That is something that we are addressing in a specific opinion. Unfortunately, today we have too many residential areas where unemployment is high, school results are low and many feel excluded. Often these areas are characterised by a large proportion of relatively cheap rentals. A person who makes a job career cannot at the same time make a housing career and stay in the area, but must move elsewhere in order to own his or her home, even though he or she would actually like to stay. New people move in. The students in school start every semester with new friends in the class while old friends have moved. The networks that build a stable area, such as knowing your neighbours, are more difficult to build and maintain. In order to create sustainable residential areas, there needs to be a variety of housing for the different stages of life and for people's different wallets during these stages. In areas with great dominance of rentals, we l iberaler therefore want there to be a special strategy for conversions to enable those who want to own their home to remain in the area. Rents, flats and owner-occupied apartments are needed. Housing areas with a mix of tenure forms create the best opportunities for the residents to choose a form of accommodation that suits them. However, achieving a better balance between different forms of leasing takes time, and efforts are needed here and now to lift the areas that need to be prioritised. What is needed are structures that last over time – not short-term projects. We know that it makes a difference in the areas where property owners and other stakeholders share common cause and in different ways contribute to increasing security and the attractiveness of the area. In many other countries there is legislation that facilitates this type of cooperation, often called BID, Business Improvement District. The legislation in these cases regulates forms and responsibilities and makes it easier to get started and cooperate. The BID can be said to act as an intermediate between an economic union and a unity, where the common task is to contribute to the development of the area towards the objectives that have been jointly set. Since this has been a success concept in several other countries, we liberals think it is high time to invest seriously in a pilot operation with BID also in Sweden. Madam President, I would like It may seem remote to talk about housing policy during an ongoing pandemic and in view of the uncertain economic situation ahead of us. But to enable the young person to move away from home, the elderly to leave the villa and the family to arrange a larger accommodation is not done in a quick turn. And, unfortunately, in the wake of the pandemic, we will see that it will be even more difficult for more people to find housing that fits both the wallet and the life situation. The need for reforms that existed before the pandemic has not diminished, but rather increased. We Liberals will continue to work towards a functioning housing market and for all children and young people to feel safe and proud of their residential areas.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-63	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking you for your confidence: I can now replace all the other committees in Parliament. But it is because we are in a situation that we hope we will soon be out of. Madam President, I would like We need a sustainable housing policy here and now, but also for the future. What do I mean by a sustainable housing policy? It should be socially, economically and ecologically sustainable. But before I describe that policy a little more, I would like to touch on the situation we are currently in. Madam President, I would like No one should have to be evicted as a result of the Corona crisis. Those who are at risk of losing their job or who have already lost their job and therefore their income should not also have to lose their home. It is extremely worrying that we are now seeing that this could be the result of this crisis. Without a safe home, it will be extremely difficult to re-enter the labour market, regardless of who you are or what work you have previously had. No one should have to be evicted as a result of the Corona crisis. You should not be able to go directly to the bailiff, but you should go through social services. We also need to ensure that children are part of the responsibility of social services for structural homelessness. Children of parents who are at risk of losing their housing contract as a result of the Corona crisis cannot be responsible for their situation. The last part is one that I think we need both now and in the future. I have exercised this again in the past, but this time exercise has been simplified. It's about residents. Part of the Swedish housing market does not have its own contract. Some have a secondary contract. You are then entitled to housing allowance, but there is no financial support for those who live in it. Many of those who today have lost their job live temporarily in a city. They took a job that they have now lost. They are therefore unable to remain as residents. I come back to a sustainable housing policy – and that also applies at this time. This is a socially sustainable housing policy in which the municipality takes real responsibility for the housing supply that the municipality has, and that applies to all residents. As I mentioned earlier, we would like to see the municipality also given increased responsibility for families with children. Children can never take responsibility for the situation their parents find themselves in. We have heard earlier in the debate about overcrowding. It is also an issue that is extremely problematic. A party colleague of mine once said something that felt so hard in my heart: The Madrass places are over in the suburbs while we who can afford only live bigger and bigger. It's true. We're very privileged. A large part of Sweden's population has a very large residential area. It is even said that we are one of the peoples of the world who have the largest living space per person. We can think about that ourselves. We're having a pretty good time. But those who do not have the economic conditions have it very difficult and live less and less. An economically sustainable housing policy – we have heard of a number of proposals in the past – is about housing savings and conditions for the individual, but it is also about being able to afford to ask for what is being built. The government's investment aid, which has been redesigned and reshaped in the cooperation on the January agreement, is an important tool to ensure that even those who do not have a fat wallet can afford to request a newly produced apartment. Then there is an ecologically sustainable housing policy. In fact, the report we are debating today deals with a motion from me on how we could contribute to an ecologically sustainable housing policy. There's a lot. The housing sector accounts for one fifth of Sweden's climate impact. This is as much as passenger cars do, but the construction sector usually manages without being called into question. We need to reduce emissions from the construction sector, and some of it concerns building materials. I've been standing here talking about that before. We have to use the right material in the right place at the right time. We also need to start recycling the materials that are already in use. This is something I have been exercising about. I will not be in favour of that motion, because that is not the way we usually do it. But it is very good, and I would like to emphasise that. I support the committee's proposals in the reports and therefore reject all the motions. I am pleased to note in this debate that the KD now wants to have a jointly numbered target for how much we should build. When we introduced it in 2014, we were very critical of putting figures on housing policy. It is therefore gratifying that we can agree on this. I hope that we can also achieve those objectives. For me it is not about numbers, how much we build, but it is about giving everyone in Sweden a safe home.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-73	Madam President, I would like I have a rather simple question or a complicated question, depending on how you look at it, to Emma Hult. The wish list described at the beginning of the speech was beautiful. Everyone's going to be fine. It should be socially sustainable. That's a nice wish list. However, I did not hear any suggestions. I wonder, Madam President, whether Emma Hult is aware that the Minister for Housing comes from her party. I understand Emma Hult wants a lot. I liked what I heard, at least a lot of it. But as usual, there are no concrete proposals on how to solve today's housing crisis in Sweden. I just want to hear how Emma Hult has thought that the wish list will become real when, after six years, the government has still not been able to make proposals.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-77	Madam President, I would like It is fascinating that you are standing in the speaker's seat and turning on a party because it does not have proposals when you do not have proposals either. It was earlier in the speaker's chair and said: We ask to come back with our proposals. I think you should think about what proposals you want to make yourself before you strongly criticise. It is remarkable that in six years Sweden's second largest party has not presented any proposals to remedy the situation we find ourselves in. Yes, it may seem to be the government's fault, but the situation we find ourselves in is because we have been building too little housing for far too long. And you chose to remove the responsibility for housing policy from the national level and say: Here are the municipalities! Here's the market! Solve it! The government has taken back national housing policies and introduced investment aid. We are really talking about housing policy in the national debate again. In the past, you did not think it was a matter for the national level to solve – the market can solve it, and the municipalities have the responsibility.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-81	Madam President, I would like How many terms of office is this government to blame on previous governments? You might wonder. But, Madam President, it is unfortunately a mantra that goes again, not only in this debate but in very many debates that we have in the Swedish Parliament. We are talking about housing policy, says Emma Hult. Yes, we've heard that today. Emma Hult talked very beautifully about a housing policy that she wanted to be in place but which is not. You have regained responsibility for housing policy. Yeah, that's good, but make sure it's a workshop. You can't take back anything and then do nothing about it. It's not working. Emma Hult pointed out that the Moderates are Sweden's second largest party, I agree, and that we have not solved the housing crisis either. We have had a number of proposals in the area of housing policy, Madam President, but although we are Sweden's second largest party, we do not have a majority in the Swedish Parliament. The previous proposals of the Moderates in the CU10 which are now being simplified did not receive a majority in the Swedish Parliament, and so we have no moderate housing policy in Sweden today. As I said, Madam President, I look forward to making new proposals from the Moderates and look forward to receiving support from the government.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-85	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby! I am also looking forward to these proposals which I hope will solve the housing situation that Sweden has today. If Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby would like to know a little more about what I described but did not choose to give a 20 minute lecture on there is in our exercise A sustainable housing policy that is also dealt with simplified. There are concrete proposals on what the Green Party would like to see and push through to bring about a policy that allows everyone in Sweden to have a safe home. As Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby probably knows, however, it takes time to build in Sweden today, something that many have noticed as a problem. It is a challenge that it takes time from idea to finished house. Nevertheless, I am happy to tell you that we currently have all the time high when it comes to completed homes in Sweden. Every year more housing is built than it did in total under the rule of the alliance government. I think that is fantastic, because it means that more people in Sweden are allowed to put the key in the door to a safe home. It would be tasty if even a former government-supporting party could realise that there is a small part of the responsibility for the situation we are in right now.
i-3mE9GnQSiacFXztPJhWcZd	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating three of the Committee on Civil Liberties's motion reports: CU10 Property law, CU13 Housing policy and CU16 Planning and construction. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. These three reports contain a series of motions. I thought at the beginning of my speech about a number of them, most of them based in the report on real estate law. Madam President, I would like On the issue of participation in road transport, there is already an announcement from 2019 to simplify decision-making for road transport and find a good middle ground. The government is currently dealing with the issue, and it is important to weigh different parameters against each other such as simplicity, legal certainty and effective minority protection. Here I am convinced that the government will return. When it comes to the question of financing and access to geodata, there are several motions that point to the benefits and importance of Lantmäteriet giving free access to the common data resources that our geodata gives us. We Social Democrats share in many ways the ambition and description of many of these movements. We believe that the issues are important, and I think that for the future of Sweden a lot is about the fact that we must eventually open up the possibilities for more people to access this kind of information. So we can be at the forefront both in terms of the implementation of data-driven AI and in order to be able to use information and drive technological development. It is important, however, to ensure that the data available is used safely and safely so that many people have the opportunity to use them, but that we do not end up in a situation where the information can end up in the wrong hands at the same time. It is gratifying to see that the government is currently working on national strategies in a number of areas. In consultation with the Geodata Council and the relevant authorities, Lantmäteriet has developed a strategy with four overall objectives. It is about that geodata should be open, usable and accessible and that the interaction between different authorities should be well developed. This strategy has now been in place for a few years, and the government has given the assignment to develop a new geodata strategy for 2021 – 2025 in the latest regulation letter to Lantmäteriet. This assignment will be reported later in the autumn. Madam President, I would like When it comes to more efficient and safer access to basic data, the Swedish Companies Registration Office, Lantmäteriet and the Swedish Tax Agency have been tasked with making proposals. Here, the Swedish Digital Administration Authority has a coordinating responsibility. Increased standardisation and an effective and secure exchange of information are other areas that these authorities are working on, and a renewed mandate has now been given to establish together a new infrastructure to improve the exchange of information. This assignment will also be delivered in the near future, with final report on 31 January 2021. As if these measures were not enough, Lantmäteriet will produce an interim report within a few days, setting out the budgetary implications of making valuable data available free of charge and the social benefits that this could create. As the President hears, intensive work is taking place today in the areas affected by the motionaries. I would like to emphasise once again that it is the Government's and Social Democrats' ambition that these issues must be at the forefront in order for Sweden to continue to be an innovative country that is at the forefront of technological development. Madam President, I would like When it comes to the requested review of Lantmäteriet, we share the view that it is urgent that the Agency's activities function effectively and effectively. The Government has commissioned Lantmäteriet and Statskontoret to reduce, measure and monitor in different ways the processing times in order to reduce the queues that we see today. The agency also works in different ways to streamline and in other ways make queue time shorter. This is a priority area. With this, I leave the real estate report and move on to the report on housing policy. It is gratifying to hear in today's debate that several parties want to highlight and promote the social dimension of housing policy. The social situation associated with housing is very problematic for many people today. For me it is therefore very inspiring to hear that both the Center Party and the Liberals in different ways can imagine working with the social dimension. It bodes well for the future when we draw up a number of proposals in this area. BID is such an area, and it will be exciting to see how you can find different ways to interact. Of course, one can always think about whether the best way is to create a certain model for what such a collaboration should look like. If you look at how collaboration works in Järva or Gårdsten, you can see that today it is very much about local engagement. With local involvement you get very far, and I think it is perhaps more important than what form it looks like. I am pleased to hear that the social dimension and people's vulnerability are something that we will hear more about in the political debate in the future.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-105	Madam President, I would like I have two questions for Johan Löfstrand. We seem to be fairly agreed that geodata should be open and accessible to everyone and that this can be a way both to streamline the planning process and to save money at government and corporate level. Johan Löfstrand used the words in due course when this could be introduced. What does that mean? When does this come in time? Is it this year, next year, or can the government consider putting forward a proposal on this? One of my exercises is about over-planning of buildable land. What do Johan Löfstrand and the Social Democrats think about this? I believe that this is a way to make it possible to build more housing in municipalities that are otherwise crowded in terms of the planning process, i.e. to increase this and, so to speak, to put it in the barns in order to be able to build and make the process shorter, but also so that those who want to start a planning process know which areas are available and where it is possible to carry out housing construction. It would be nice to have answers to these two questions.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-109	Madam President, I would like When it comes to the first question, the government is working on a number of different tracks to digitise Lantmäteriet but also other parts of the Swedish Government. Digitally first is a first step where we have worked to increase digitalisation and understanding. The positions of authority that I read out are a step forward. The Government has an ambition to review the possibility of also making part of this material free. As I said, within just a few weeks, Lantmäteriet will produce an interim report analysing the cost and possible social benefits that this would entail. After that, the government and all parties must take a position on how this process should be taken forward. I am absolutely convinced that the government will come back on this issue. As for Larry Söder's second question about overplanning land, I think it could be exciting. But basically, I think both Larry Söder and I think that the municipalities are the best place to deal with this. As things stand today, municipalities are given the opportunity to actually accept this responsibility. And many municipalities take this responsibility. The big dilemma is that different municipalities take different responsibilities. Above all, it is perhaps the case that those municipalities that would have to take responsibility for giving everyone the opportunity to have a home may not really take this responsibility today.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-111	Madam President, I would like My view is that to make geodata open and accessible to all means a basic cost. I believe that this cost must be taken nationally, that is to say that it must be included in a budget in one way or another that we are setting out here. It is then normal once a year that we set it, if we are not to do so in an extra budget that I do not think is necessary. My wish or question is straight and clear? Is there a possibility that this will be included in the autumn budget for 2021? That would be welcome. There are several parties who have put this in their budget, of course on the basis of the knowledge they have, i.e. that the cost is unknown until they have examined it. As far as over-planning of buildable land is concerned, this is related to my discussion about whether we can have a target – a speech – for the building of residential buildings, residential buildings and small houses. I believe that Parliament and the government must set a speech for this in order to be able to work for it. I have looked at the government declaration and the budget, and the government has no stated target on the number of homes. Boverket, on the other hand, has analyses about this. But the government and the Prime Minister have not talked about the number of homes to be built in Sweden. If you say that, I mean that it also departs from the fact that this is only spent on the municipalities. Then there will be a national level where solutions must be found to do so. I agree with Johan Löfstrand that the municipal plan monopoly is strong and should be strong. But somewhere also our responsibility as national politicians goes. I think it's possible to keep the whole thing together. Some municipalities can't do it, while other municipalities can do it. However, the municipalities that are unable to do so must help in one way or another.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-115	Madam President, I would like We are in rather special times right now. The state budget is already rather strained by the pandemic that prevails. To then stand in the speaker's seat and now promise whether this type of initiative will come this year or in a few years' time I do not have a mandate or think it appropriate to do so, especially given that we do not know what the cost will be at present. Therefore, it is great that we wait for the work done by Lantmäteriet, so that we can get a clearer picture of both what social benefits this creates and what costs are associated with this. I therefore believe that it is difficult to answer this question right now, particularly because we are in a very different situation today than we were six months ago. With regard to Larry Söder's question on cases, if I am not mistaken, the Prime Minister has said in the government declaration a few years ago that the aim of the last parliamentary term was to build 250 000 homes. This goal reached the government. Now, however, we need to set a new target. The Government has recently given a mandate to Boverket to try to analyse the housing shortage and with this tool to produce a clear description of the type of housing needed. Then it will be much easier to set a goal that is more precise about what we need. I can conclude by saying that I agree with Larry Söder that the government must take a much greater responsibility for housing to be built throughout the country. Above all, the state must take responsibility for the fact that it is built in a number of municipalities that today do not want to build.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-118	Madam President, I would like Because of the Corona crisis, my party colleague Momodou Malcolm Jallow is unable to attend here today. I understand that you are disappointed, and he is disappointed not to take part in the debate. But you won't get away from him completely because I will deliver his message that he has sent to me. The right to housing is a fundamental human right – one of the most important and major challenges in Sweden today. We need an equal social housing policy in which the state takes great responsibility for building housing for all, regardless of income. Government housing policy was dismantled in the 1990s. Since then, housing construction is almost entirely on market terms. We believe that the January agreement's notice to implement free leasing in new production will worsen for tenants. The lack of rents that people can afford has created overcrowding and difficulties for young and newcomers to establish themselves on the housing market. It has also led to difficulties in moving to where jobs and training are located. The current Corona crisis has so far had major consequences for society, where we see that the housing crisis has played a major role. But the housing crisis existed long before the Corona crisis. Structural homelessness, renouncing and selling of public goods have affected many but mainly low income earners, pensioners, young people and new arrivals. Madam President, I would like As class divisions and inequality have increased, housing segregation has also increased. Differences in income, health and life expectancy differ widely between the different residential areas. The consequences of this will be evident with the Corona crisis, as the spread of infection has been much faster and greater in areas with a great deal of overcrowding. The Corona crisis has so far had far-reaching socio-economic and health implications. The January parties will then set up an investigation into changing the rental system in Sweden. We do not want market rents, and we see how those who have the worst risk being worst hit by this. Instead, we need to provide security and good conditions for those most affected by the crisis. According to Boverket, an average of 67 000 new dwellings need to be built each year until 2025. What is needed above all are rental apartments with reasonable rents that people can afford. For people with a weak financial position, which may have further deteriorated in the wake of the Corona crisis, the threshold of the housing market is incredibly high. Free renting is not a solution to housing shortages, homelessness or social challenges. Madam President, I would like In recent years, more residential units have been built than rental apartments. Many of these apartments have been expensive and exclusive, aimed at a high-end middle class. The demand for these dwellings is now falling, but the need for housing remains. What is needed, in particular, are rental apartments with reasonable rents, and in order to build these dwellings, the State must take responsibility – partly through various forms of support, such as investment support, and partly by the state taking a greater role in creating a more equal balance between rental and tenant-ownership rights. Housing should be part of welfare in the same way as school, health care and care is. The state and the municipality must take responsibility for ensuring that all citizens have a place to live. It is increasingly difficult to get your own apartment, and the housing queues are growing. It is difficult to get a first-hand contract; sometimes it takes more than ten years in the housing queue to get one. Madam President, I would like The proposal on market rents concerns newly produced dwellings. Unfortunately, this is a little comfort for the country's tenants, because the proposal means that in some of the rental stock, tenants will be denied the right to negotiate that everyone has today. It obviously affects the entire stock in the long term, and it would only be a matter of time before the majority of the country's tenants were hit by increased rents. In the long term, we do not believe that it is possible to have two separate systems. Today, the rents are put into a collective negotiation between the Tenants' Association and the private and public-interest landlords. Reality has shown that the model works under great stress in both low and boom conditions. It provides stable profits for companies while providing security and influence for tenants. The positive effects of market rents are not covered. Instead, it is clear that market rents lead to higher rents everywhere and reduce the ability of tenants to move within the rental portfolio. Market rents maintain social and economic stigma. Market rents also risk increasing the cost of housing allowances and financial assistance and contributing to an increase in the number of evictions due to rental debts. Studies also do not show that market rents lead to increased housing construction, so who are they good for? The answer is simple: they are good for property owners, and especially those in strong housing markets. It is basically only those who have been in favour of the government's response. On the other hand, the Tenant's Association, which represents those living in the apartments, raises the alarm about increased rents and increased insecurity. Even before the government took office, we in the Left Party were clear that we are happy to negotiate and compromise on a number of issues, but we have also been clear that market rents are not one of them. It would affect too many people. One thing is certain: the Left Party is saying no to market rents in both new production and the existing stock, and the promise to bring down the government on the introduction of such a thing is still valid. Madam President, I would like We need more rental apartments with reasonable rents, and we need them in all parts of our society. Market rents do not solve this. We want to protect and develop the Swedish rental model, with collectively negotiated rentals according to the use value principle. It's best for everyone.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-133	Madam President, I would like I would both like to thank Mr Thorbjörnson and welcome him into the housing policy debate. Although Jon began by saying that it was Momodou Malcolm Jallow's words that he was going to say, I expect that it is also the policy of the Left Party and something that Jon Thorbjörnson is behind. Madam President, I would like Jon Thorbjörnson describes very well many things that I recognize about what the Swedish housing market looks like and what challenges we have, but I hear very few suggestions for solutions. However, some show up in the speech, and they are about the state taking greater responsibility. It mentions, for example, investment support but also that the balance between rentals and tenant-owners should be improved. I would like to know how the state should influence the balance between rental and tenant-ownership so that it improves.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-135	Madam President, I would like Maybe I should ask Emma Hult for the same thing she asked the Moderates to read our motion. There are many suggestions that go into the simplified treatment of sports, so there are many of the answers to be received. For example, we can use a state-owned construction company that can make sure to build what is needed and what people are asking to solve the housing crisis. A state-owned construction company could control which homes they want to build, namely what society needs: rental apartments.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-137	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Thorbjörnson for his answer. It is an interesting idea that I know the Left Party has tried it before and has not received support for it. We have some state-owned companies that build housing today; we have Akademiska Hus, which builds student housing, and to some extent other types of category housing are also granted. I just want to get something clarified... is Jon Thorbjörnson thinking that the state housing company is going to build what's missing? Should we not make sure, with other tools, that market players are also able to do so? In Finland, there is a foundation that builds for vulnerable citizens – we were together in Helsinki on a study trip. Is this something the Left Party has been thinking about? The last thing I want to say at this turn of the line is that the government is not proposing the introduction of market rents. The Government proposes the introduction of free renting in new production. In the investigation directive on which we now agree, it is very clear that these are not market rents. I would also like to make it clear that we already have two separate systems today. We have the system where the rent is negotiated with the Tenant Association, but it is also possible today to negotiate their rent directly with the landlord. That is exactly what will happen when it comes to lettings in new production – although we will have a tarif procedure, which will hopefully strengthen the tenant's position even more than the current procedure, where the rent is negotiated directly between the landlord and the tenant.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-142	Madam President, I would like What does free renting mean in new production? Does this mean that the state regulates what rents it should be? Does this mean that the parties sit down and negotiate when the rent is set? No, it means that the property owner will set a rent. The property owner will rely on market forces and see what the market can withstand, and then he will want to maximise his income. What does that mean? If this is not the introduction of market rents, what are market rents? If so, is there anything else specific? This risks spreading to the entire housing market, because every time we build something new, it will be free renting. The old will be phased out, and the new will be phased in. I want to make a literary reference. Per Anders Fogelström City of My Dreams is part of a book series that I have read with great pleasure. In the beginning you can follow people from the 1860s, and there are very explicit descriptions of what the housing situation looks like in Sweden and in Stockholm. It was just a piece of shit. Did we eventually get rid of this? Yes, during a period in Sweden's history when we built an incredible amount. Was it market forces that made sure that so much was built then? No, the government took responsibility for ensuring that there would be good quality housing for all citizens regardless of income. We can do that again.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-145	Madam President, I would like I listened to the part where Mr Thorbjörnson spoke about the social problems that exist in residential areas and that the Left Party wants to do something about this. One of the ways you can do that is in those rental areas where we have social problems – because it is unfortunately most often in rental areas we have – to blow up residential apartments. You can also build small houses on the side. Is there something that the Left Party is prepared to support, that is to say, the building of residences and houses there? This means, in that case, that the Left Party must also present a policy in order to make it possible. Then I would like to ask Mr Thorbjörnson another question. There are many calculations that show that the rental apartment is the most expensive form of accommodation. Does Jon Thorbjörnson agree with this statement? In the vast majority of debates that I have heard, the Left Party has talked about rents, but there is never talk about small houses. What policy does the Left Party have to build more houses in Sweden? For it is not that the Left Party has not understood that there is a need for this too?
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-149	Madam President, I would like Member Larry Söder asked about mixed tenure arrangements in various residential areas. It's really nice to have different forms of tenure in different residential areas. The problem is, a little bit, when you just focus on what you call alienation areas, where there are many rental apartments. These areas are identified as the areas with all the problems. There are other areas where there are no mixed tenure arrangements. There's also a point in building so that we have mixed tenure forms everywhere and not just build big, nice villas? Emma Hult mentioned earlier that some of us live larger and larger every year while others live narrower and narrower and that this differs in different residential areas. An equally important point is that even in municipalities such as Kungsbacka, which both Larry and I come from, and Djursholm, or in any municipality that has large, nice residential areas, mixed tenure forms are needed. But we never talk about that. We never talk about having rental apartments in these areas too. If we have a strong common interest in each municipality, which is a proposal from the Left Party that can ensure that there is housing for everyone in all municipalities, it is good for everyone, regardless of income.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-152	Madam President, I would like I still did not get an answer if Mr Thorbjörnson believes that the apartment is the most expensive form of accommodation. If Mr Thorbjörnson agrees, it should be the case that those with small incomes should have the opportunity to live in another type of housing. This is what our policy focuses on – ensuring that people can make a trip to their homes and not get stuck in a form but live in the form they want. I'm gonna give Jon Thorbjörnson a challenge. There are particularly vulnerable areas identified in Sweden. Can Jon Thorbjörnson report one of these which is a small house area? Mr Thorbjörnson stands here and says that it is not just rental areas that are particularly vulnerable areas, but I firmly argue that one small building area cannot be found which is a particularly vulnerable area. In my world of politics, this means making sure that we solve the problem where we have the problem – we do not create problems in those areas that do not have problems. This means that it is rental areas – the old million-programmes – that we have to do something about. What we can do about this is to blow up residences and small-house areas alongside or in these areas in order to make them more socially stable. This is also largely how they have worked, and with other measures that municipalities can put in place. Jon Thorbjörnson owes me the answer: Is the apartment the most expensive form of accommodation? And mention a particularly vulnerable area that is a small house area!
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-156	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder probably misunderstood me a little. The point was not to point out residential areas as problem areas, although there can certainly be different types of problems in different places, but to show that we would have to get a mixed settlement and mixed tenure in the whole country. We don't just need to focus on exclusion areas. If we want to have a mixed population throughout the country, we will ensure that there are mixed forms of leases throughout the country and in all municipalities, even in those municipalities that are almost only made up of expensive residential areas. When you as a youth are going to get your first place to live, it can be difficult to spend 2 – 3 million to buy a right-of-occupancy apartment or a villa. Then maybe the rent is the only way out. It may be that rental rights are the most expensive option compared to the fee you get for a tenant-owner after you have scrounged out with those 2 – 3 million, which you don't have, but many people are referred to rental apartments. They cannot afford — and may not even take — the loans needed to buy a villa or a right-of-occupancy apartment in a fine area. When I left home for the first time, it was not on the world map that I would have 1 million to buy a condo or a villa for. I was directed to live in a small collective. There were four of us who shared a five — a tenancy. It worked just fine. Was this the absolute cheapest? Yeah, for me it was because I didn't own that million. We also see that the newly produced rentals are expensive. People can't afford to live in them. That is why we need support to ensure that we can reduce the rents of newly produced rentals. Market rents will not help there.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-160	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4 in the report. Birth, adoption, naming, marriage, divorce, custody of children, parental responsibility, death and inheritance – during our lives we will end up in situations where any of this happens. Birth and death are, in any case, two events that are guaranteed to affect us all and that we cannot avoid. Common to these situations is also that there is a sea of legislation and paragraphs to ensure that we take advantage of all the opportunities and gifts of life and solve challenges and problems in a way that reflects the society we live in. Legislation that is so closely linked to the different phases of our lives must itself be in phase and be able to be reconsidered as our society changes. Few legislations, Madam President, are so linked to standards such as family law. Many of the laws that exist are based on culture and values. What is right, what is crazy and what we think often depends on our own cultural or religious luggage. But, Madam President, there are some things on which there is absolute agreement among all parties in the Swedish Parliament. One such pillar is that all legislation should always ensure the best interests of the child. If that's not obvious, you might ask. Sweden has ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. No, unfortunately this is not obvious. Despite the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and despite all the fine words in solemn speeches, we have legislation today that puts the needs of others before the needs of the child. The whole of Sweden was shaken and cried when the news about Esmeralda, which we got to know as a little heart, became known. This was a little girl who was hard and brutally torn from the home and the people she had lived with throughout her three-year life and got to know as her family. It was a home where she was loved, wanted and cared for. The reason for this was that Little Heart's "biological parents" now felt ready to regain custody. The family home parents struggled to keep her. Social services also advised against returning custody to the biological parents, but the court ruled otherwise. Shortly after she moved, little Esmeralda died. Her biological mother is now under arrest and suspected of causing her death. Society failed Esmeralda. If all the fine words were that the best interests of the child are obvious now that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has been ratified, that would not have happened. There are no wands and magic formulas to secure the best interests of the child, Madam President. Responsibility and knowledge are required of authorities and courts, and we need to have legislation that is so clear that the risks of misinterpretation are minimised. With little Esmeralda, it became tragically clear that today's legislation is not up to date. We need to look at it, do it again and do it right, because the children's best interests are the ones that should always weigh the most. That is why I am relieved that today we have a united committee which now supports an announcement to the government to review the rules on custody transfer and adoption in family homes, where the best interests of the child are to decide. Having said that, Madam President, it is not always the case that a child who is a family home should not be reunited with his biological parents. This is not a stand against the possibility for biological parents to reunite with their children. This is a clear signal – no it is too weak. This is a requirement from all over Sweden and everyone who lives here that regardless of outcome the child's best should always weigh the weight and be decisive in these decisions. May no more children face the same fate as little Esmeralda. Madam President, I would like Now I feel like everything that I was going to say after this is going to be very insignificant. But there is much in the area of family law that is in need of review and change to meet the challenges of our time. In addition to the announcement on custody transfer and adoption, we also have a united committee behind an announcement on polygamous marriage, so-called polygamy. Who you marry and if you might want to divorce is in Sweden entirely up to yourself and of course the one you marry. But how many you want to be married to at the same time we in Sweden have clear opinions about. Marriage is a union between two people, not more. Today we in Sweden have legislation that says that you cannot marry more than one person. But we also have legislation that says that if you're already married to several people when you get here, you'll still have to be married to them. This is directly contradictory, Madam President. You can't do this here, but if you've done it anywhere else, it's okay and we can live with the consequences. Last winter there was a government inquiry into how to handle polygamous marriages that already exist when people come to Sweden. The investigation is clearly sceptical about the existence of these marriages but unfortunately does not advocate a clear line. Instead, it advocates a valve that says that these marriages can exist if there is a special soul. What these exceptional reasons are, Madam President, is somewhat unclear. However, some examples are presented, such as the fact that if the weaker mate, often the woman, loses the right to property or inheritance in the event of the cancellation or dissolution of the polygamy, marriage may continue to exist. And the investigation is right that similar situations may arise, but we believe that these situations will then be resolved by other legislation, not by polygamous marriages being allowed to exist in Sweden. Polygamous marriages do not belong today or in our society. In Sweden, marriages shall consist of two equal parties. In order for the government not to fall victim to this issue and fall victim to the valve of the investigation, we say in our announcement that the government will return to Parliament as soon as possible with a proposal for strengthened legislation against polygamous marriages. Madam President, I would like I said at the beginning of my speech that family law legislation should reflect the society in which we live. Now I have just said what I think the legislation should say about polygamous marriages, where there should be no room for own values. But when it comes to marriage between two adults, it is entirely up to them if they want to enter into it and if they want to end the marriage. Already in the 70's, the requirement was removed that you must state why you want to divorce, and there are no requirements for special living. Not many today lift their eyebrows over this. What is left, and which we Moderates think should be removed, is the requirement for a reflection period when there are no children under the age of 16 in the picture. We Moderates believe that this change is needed, especially in marriages where one of the spouses is subjected to violence or violations. In a modern society, I decide who I want to live with and in what forms. I do not know, Madam President, how many follow SVT's British TV series The Split, which deals with divorce lawyers in London and their clients. I follow it – obviously of purely professional interest – as it becomes very clear how a country's family law law is based in its view of morality, ethics and what is correct. A reply from the main character of the series, Hanna Stern: If you request a divorce, he will oppose this, and the question of why must be answered – a fatal question. She chose not to divorce. The replica sounds like a relic from the dark Middle Ages. But these legislations, Madam President, remain in countries not entirely different from our own. Modern family law is not a natural law. It will never be better than the legislators in this House. Having said that, Madam President, I would just like to add that, of course, we still support the proposals that have been simplified in this motion report. And I want to apologize for exceeding my speaking time.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-184	Madam President, I would like It is a little extra fun to stand here as a Swedish Democrat just today, when we have heard so much about our motions in the Committee on Civil Liberties. Today, many of our motions for resolutions on polygamy are approved by all the parties in the committee. It is good that we now all agree that stricter rules are needed to prevent polygamy and forced marriages. Around the world, women are oppressed and forced into marriages that they did not choose. Sweden should never become a part of this oppression, but here women should have the same rights as men and be able to say both yes and no to a marriage. It is therefore important that we put our foot down and stand up for women's rights. Although marriages with several persons are not allowed in Sweden and are punishable, they still occur in the country because they have been entered into in another country or unofficially in Sweden. There are also exceptions that make it possible to still be married to several people at the same time. That is not acceptable. No polygamy shall be permitted in Sweden. This shall apply to all, regardless of origin. Those who do not respect our laws on polygamy and continue to live as married to several people at the same time shall be punished for this and in the situation that it is possible also expelled from the country. From the Swedish Democrats' side, we take a very positive view of the investigation into stricter rules for these marriages. Unfortunately, however, at the same time, we can see that the proposals of the investigation are not sufficient. Legislation should be further tightened, so that no polygamy is recognised in Sweden and those who already exist are dissolved through forced division of property. We also believe that there is a need to map the prevalence of polygamy in Sweden in order to get a good picture of how common it is. Often, polygamy is entered into between a man and several wives and where the woman's position and will is subject to the man's. Therefore, the woman does not have the same rights or opportunities to say no to either marriage or that several women should be part of it. Here in Sweden we strive to live on an equal footing, and this means that the woman has the same rights as the man. To be forced to enter into a marriage is far from the values that marriage is based on love between two individuals who have chosen each other out of their own free will. Madam President, I would like The government has presented several new laws on forced marriages and child marriages. We welcome this, of course, but unfortunately we also note here that it is not quite enough. They need to be supplemented by new and more measures, even more severe penalties and new laws to put an end to these medieval practices. We also take a very positive view of the increased demands that have come into force on the religious communities and their marriage ministers, as well as the introduction of, among other things, improved opportunities for Kammarkollegiet to supervise the wedding activities through a special regulation. But here too we see that more needs to be done and that further action needs to be taken. The government should therefore consider whether there are grounds for further tightening up the requirements of the religious communities and their marriage ministers with a view to stopping forced marriages and child marriages. Finally, I would also like to highlight the need for a will register. If someone today writes a will and keeps it in a safety deposit box or safe, the probability is that the person who finds the will is a person who would have an inheritance right without the will. So there is an obvious danger that the will will will disappear if it is to the detriment of the person who finds it. How many wills disappear each year we naturally do not know, but it is reasonable to assume that there are a few. It would be reasonable to register wills. It is proposed that this should be dealt with by the same authorities as today dealing with the prenuptial agreement. In conclusion, Madam President, we in the Swedish Democrats naturally support all our proposals and reservations, but out of respect for everyone's time, especially at this time, we are only calling for reservation 1.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-195	Madam President, I would like The family is important to most people. A family can look very different. It may consist of a man and a woman, two women or two men, married or unmarried. There are also many different ways to become a parent: traditionally, as most people know, inseminations, embryo donation or surrogate arrangements. What is important to me – my most important starting point – is that adults live together of free will, married or unmarried, and that children born have the right to their guardians, their social parents and their biological origins. The report deals with different aspects of family law, which are sometimes quite broad. Today, I intend to focus on the rights of the child, the best interests of the child and the right of the child to be his own legal person and to protect the weak person. Madam President, I would like Children have the right to a safe and secure upbringing. This is something that begins already in the stomach. No matter how the child comes into being, it is important that we have rapid processes in which we determine the parenthood of the child to be. When we determine who should be the child's parents, we should have as our standard that joint custody applies. Why is this so important? Because if the worst happens during childbirth, the child must have guardians. The child must not be without a guardian, as may be the case if unmarried persons and the mother die during childbirth. It is also important that we ensure that we have good processes for those who choose to have children in a non-traditional way. In the time we are now in, the government has been slow to address the problems surrounding families who choose to have children through surrogate arrangements internationally. Some choose to use a woman from another country as a host mother, but there are many examples where Swedish women – Swedish sisters – carry children for a sister or a brother. The child is born in Sweden, but when international arrangements are used the child is born in another country. What has happened today is that there are children in the world who do not have access to their intended parents, either because the parents cannot go there or because they do not get the paperwork needed to approve parenthood, get the coordination number and be able to move to Sweden. This is not okay, but something we have to deal with when the pandemic is over. I realise that we cannot resolve it in the short term, but we must resolve it in the long term because children are in danger of getting hurt and becoming without their guardians. Madam President, I would like When children get hurt because guardians or other adults are unable to provide care in a good way or when the adults who are the child's parents choose to separate, it is incredibly important that the child gets his or her own right and becomes a legal person. The child must be allowed to speak for himself and be listened to. It requires that everyone who works with children in different parts of the judiciary and in social services has the necessary education to listen to and understand the child and that they work with their investigations and risk assessments methodically and with quality so as to ensure what is the best interests of the child. This is something that I feel has broken and which has led to what Mr Cecilie from the Moderates was talking about when it came to a little heart. It can't happen again. But we must also not have legislation tipping over the pendulum so that children who do not need to be taken care of are taken care of. It is important that we manage to have a balance in future legislation. I think we need to review the possibility of confidentiality-breaking rules in different situations when it comes to children. Custodians should not always know exactly everything about the conversations about children. There are examples where a 16-year-old called the police to ask for help so as not to have to go home to their parents but where the police have chosen to call and inform the parents about this before examining the issue. The young girl who just reported her parents is hit twice when she gets home. It's not right. It is obvious that we should not have gossip and that guardians should know what is happening, but we must ensure the child's safety first. Again, a lot of training, skills and collaboration is required between those who are used to working with child interviews and child interviews. Madam President, I would like At the same time, work is under way in the Civil and Social Committee to get better legislation to protect children who are in harm's way. I am delighted that this work is going on. I think we are quite in agreement throughout the House that this is an important piece of work. What concerns the civil committee is custody transfer and adoption. Again, it is the child's needs, not the biological parents or the family home parents, that should be the important thing. I will briefly discuss the subject of adults living with each other by free will – two adults living together in Sweden. I am pleased that we have a clear announcement from the committee that clearly shows the government what the future proposal will give for stricter legislation. We must remember to protect the weak party – we must never forget that. Whether it be polygamous marriages, divorces or custody disputes, we must always protect the weak mate. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that I want a family law based on the best interests of the child and the right of the child to his or her parents, whether they are biological parents, social parents or family homes. It shouldn't be the other way around. In doing so, I call for the announcements that have been made and for reservation 9. I apologise for having oversold my speaking time.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-207	Madam President, I would like Regrettably, I will have to ask for approval of the Left Party's reservation 5. I really want it to be taken into account. Madam President, I would like Once upon a time it was very difficult to divorce. If we go back 200 years, we see that it took infidelity or that one mate simply snapped or disappeared and left his family in the lurch to get a divorce. That was the only legitimate reason. And then we should know that infidelity was punished with death, even though most death sentences were then converted. It was still punishable until the mid-1900s, and I believe that this was still in the legislation until 1937. But things change, and luck is, isn't it? Today it's easier to get divorced. You don't have to be a victim of crime or infidelity. Marriage law has been modernised. In the 70s it became possible to divorce without giving any specific reasons or, for that matter, having to live apart for a certain time. However, there is still a period of reflection as to whether there are children under the age of 16 over whom one of the spouses has legal custody and who live permanently with them. It just has to be one of the husbands. If anyone wants a divorce, the reconsideration period is six months. These provisions on the period of reflection in the event of divorce are liable to expose women and children to unnecessary suffering. Time of thought is drawing on the process, and people are forced to remain in unwanted relationships. Women who are victims of domestic violence often find themselves in a particularly difficult situation, and for women and children who are victims of violence in marriage, the present period of reflection can even be life-threatening. Madam President, I would like It is not always easy to leave a destructive relationship where you are exposed to crime. It can be a long way up to daring to leave a violent partner, married or not. It shouldn't have to be unnecessarily difficult when you finally have the courage to take that step and end the relationship. But with the reflection time, you have to stay unnecessarily long. In Sweden, it is estimated that around 25 percent of the female population during their lifetime will be subjected to violence by an perpetrator to whom they have or have had a relationship. Violence is a practice of power where it is more women who suffer from relationship violence, even if men are also exposed. When it comes to men's violence against women, the numbers of darkness are probably high. Brå estimates that only 20 – 25 percent of all assaults and 5 – 10 percent of sexual assaults are reported to the police. The Left Party considers it problematic that these women are forced to endure the reflection period before a destructive marriage can be concluded. Madam President, I would like The purpose of the reconsideration period is to counteract premature divorce decisions and may be able to motivate participation in family counselling. In our opinion, it is clear that the present reflection period is aimed at preserving the nuclear family. A poorly functioning marriage, however, is far more destructive for both children and parents to live in than living in a new family constellation. Instead, today's reflection period leads to an unnecessarily lengthy process that risks making it more difficult for both children and adults to adapt to a new situation in life. As legislators, we have a responsibility to ensure that what has happened since the 1970s is also reflected in the marriage code. We believe that a couple who have well made a decision to divorce have already given sufficient consideration to this, even if only one party takes the decision. Moreover, the provision on the period of reflection does not agree with the view of the spouses as independent and equal individuals. If only one of the spouses wants the marriage to be dissolved, this desire would be based on the fact that the relationship does not actually work. The time is now ripe for a new balance to be struck and for people to take out divorce without making demands for a period of reflection. Should the parties change at a later date, there is the possibility of getting married again. There is no need for a period of reflection to be married or to share a common-law relationship. Why shouldn't people get divorced when they want to? Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude with a few words about the investigation into foreign polygamy, which has been completed in the spring and is on a consultation round. The issue has been raised in this report by means of a committee initiative. We think it is important to listen to those who know the questions and face the problems, i.e. the consultation bodies. That is why we want to wait for the answers from them and not run ahead, although what is being proposed by the majority of committees may well be what is needed. We want to bring about as good and effective legislation as possible when stricter rules against foreign polygamy are to be taken, because polygamy is to be resisted.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-219	Madam President, I would like Foreign polygamy should not be recognised in Sweden. We now agree on this in committee with the initiative that is included here. This is a welcome message that we Christian Democrats support. Unfortunately, the committee does not take the full step and proposes the annulment of the polygamy that exists in Sweden. We believe that it is inconsistent because polygamy is prohibited, and Swedish law should of course apply to all residents of Sweden. It is striking that polygamy should be allowed to persist only because it has been concluded abroad and before a certain date. This is an inconsistent approach compared to the ban on domestic polygamy. We believe that polygamy is not only contrary to Swedish law but also to the public policy of the Swedish legal system. The principle that the parties to a marriage have the same rights has been the basis for Swedish marriage law for almost 100 years. The equal rights of men and women are fundamental in Swedish society and have support in the form of government. No one should be disadvantaged because of their gender, and Sweden should therefore no longer recognise polygamous marriages that have been entered into in another country. No polygamous marriage should exist in Sweden, we mean, no matter what date it was made. We are pleased with the committee initiative and hope that it will lead to a tougher wording in the Government's proposal than it has managed to agree on. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats are coming back to the matter of a will register, because the government has not made a proposal and we believe that it is important to establish a will register. It is not uncommon for wills to disappear or for disputes to arise about the validity of a will. Those who are careful keep their will in a safe deposit box, with a law firm or with a estate inventory company. However, this does not guarantee that the will will will come out at the time of the testator's death. As for the rest of us who are not so careful, the will may not be found at all, which means that the last will is not fulfilled. In 2008, the Swedish Tax Agency prepared a proposal for a voluntary official will register to which wills could be sent and then scanned and stored electronically. Absolute secrecy would prevail, and the original would be returned. The handling would be financed by a fee to the authority in connection with the registration. The Tax Agency is the authority that should be best placed to manage a will register, as the agency is already responsible for public records, including registration of death and issuing death certificates. When registering death, the authority could draw the attention of relatives to the existence of a will in the register. On the committee's proposal, the Parliament issued an announcement to the government in spring 2019 to continue its work on reviewing the possibility of registering wills in a register provided by public authorities. The Swedish Tax Agency's previous work should have made it easy for the government to return, but it has not done so. That's why we're continuing the fight for a will register. I request the approval of reservation 12.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-227	Madam President, I would like In May 2016, a woman on a walk in Hökarängen in Stockholm saw a hand sticking out of the ground. The hand belonged to a girl named Merziah who had been murdered. The girl had applied for asylum in the autumn of 2015. Two months before she was found, she had been reported missing without anything being done – unaccompanied children usually disappear, got the reporter in response. Instead, the police investigation revealed that Merziah had been brought here by a 20 - year - old man as his wife's number two. She started a relationship with a boy of her age. The man found out about this and then murdered her. He had the right to have two wives in his life. Instead, when she chose love, she paid with her life. She is one of all the victims we are talking about today: girls and women who are forced into polygamy. Our role as politicians is to solve social problems and make Sweden an even better country. In today's debate, I am pleased with one thing, and that is the great commitment we now see to combat various forms of honour oppression – that we stand together for Merziah and other girls and women who are forced into polygamy. The debate today highlights one of the cores of liberalism: fighting structures that oppress the individual. Many marriages are an institution that cements man's power over woman. It does not belong in any country that values equality. We Liberals are pushing for the committee to go even further than the investigation proposal, because we never give up. Although polygamy is prohibited in Sweden, we have for many years recognized polygamy in the practice of authority. This is due to a relativist view of women's and girls' rights; women's oppression is excused in the name of religion, culture or tradition. The same was true for many years in the fight against genital mutilation, child marriage and forced marriage. But we Liberals have refused to accept this and have pushed for a total ban. It must also apply to polygamy. We will never give up on the rights of girls and women. After the law has been introduced, no new arrivals who have entered into a polygamous marriage will have it recognised in Sweden. Women's rights shall apply to everyone. To accept polygamy is to accept the oppression of certain women. It is a betrayal of all the women who need equality most. Sweden should be a clear and progressive voice in the world for women's rights. Multiple marriage is an issue affecting a smaller, forgotten and invisible group. That's why it's important that we take the fight. Multiple marriages are the omens of women. It is therefore important to give them the right to their human identity – from goods to people, from objects to subjects. It is our responsibility to stand up for all those who are vulnerable and who cannot raise their voices and protest. It's for those we never give up. I therefore assume that the government will soon be able to return to Parliament with a proposal for stricter legislation against foreign polygamous marriages. I would also like to see a clear position on our most vulnerable children. This is legislation relating to the transfer of custody of children who are cared for because of a lack of a home relationship. The best interests of the child must come first. That is not the case today. It can lead to terrible consequences. We have all become aware of this with the tragic case that we have come to know as Little Heart and to which many have referred today. The three-year-old girl grew up in a family home, but in spring 2019 the parents regained custody after a decision in the Administrative Court of Appeal. This is a decision based on an assessment of the guardian's ability to change. It is also a subjective interpretation based on experience rather than fact. Today, legislation is legally insecure from the child's point of view. In these cases, it is about making the child a subject and strengthening its role as a legal person. Together, we must dare to challenge parental rights when children are exposed by those who should stand for love, closeness and security. The vulnerable child's perspective, security and right should always be in focus. 中 A parent is not necessarily the one who has given birth, but the one who takes care of you and provides love and security. This is a quote from a child and is taken from Unicef's blog. Adding a criterion based on the best interests of the child is necessary to see what consequences the vulnerability has had for the child over time. How has trust been affected, and what is the connection to the family home? We must be able to explain to the individual child what we are basing our assessments on. We must dare to put our foot down and demand that the parent who has exposed his child prove what active measures have been taken to change his behaviour. Today, social services too often hunt and appeal to the parent to accept help. It should be the parent chasing efforts to change his behaviour. An important and decisive step is for the parent who has exposed his child to acknowledge to himself and the child what has actually happened. Only then will conditions exist for changing behaviour and the possibility of rebuilding the trust that has been destroyed in the vulnerable child. Sweden should be a progressive voice in terms of strengthening children's position as a legal person and as a holder of rights. Neither Esmeralda nor Merziah remain with us. But there are many children throughout our country who live with just such fear as those children felt before they lost their lives. When we talk about polygamous marriage, legislation is an important part of putting its foot down. But when it comes to the majority of the women I have met who live in polygamous marriages, marriages have never been registered. And it is marriage that has been entered into in Sweden. There is far too little information, support and information from society that the right to divorce, as we have talked about here today, should apply to everyone.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-244	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report as a whole to be approved. How you choose to live your life and form your family and who or who you choose to love should politics not interfere with, as long as no one gets hurt. All love is good love. Society, however, has an enormous responsibility when a person gets hurt or is exposed because someone else believes that he has the right to that person, that he should be a part of their life, or because of structures. That is why the committee notes in this report that polygamous marriage is an undesirable phenomenon and that it is urgent that such marriages are refused recognition or otherwise not allowed in Sweden. That's what we're behind. The government has set up an investigation, Stricter rules on foreign polygamy, which has made a proposal. It's just now out for a referral. No polygamy should continue to be approved in Sweden. It is also extremely important to ensure that those who are considered weaker parties to a polygamous marriage receive the legal protection required in this context. How it should be done is now up to the government to design. I would like to stress that it is important to listen to the consultation bodies which are now going to give their views on the matter. We want the government to return to Parliament as soon as possible with a proposal for stricter legislation against foreign polygamous marriages. It also needs to be ensured that those women who are currently in an extremely vulnerable situation have the opportunity to get out of it. Therefore, the committee announces that the government should return to the Riksdag as soon as possible with such proposals. Madam President, I would like The family law report contains another proposal for a declaration, supported by a united committee. The government should initiate a review of the rules on custody transfer and adoption in family home placements. Every child has the right to a safe home. Every child has a right to love and kindness. All children have the right to associate with adults who care about them. Although we know that many children are suffering in Sweden today, strangely little has been done about it for many years. Unfortunately, this is not a new problem, but it is a problem that we must overcome. An estimated 200 000 children in Sweden grow up in homes where there is violence. Some 100 000 young people in Sweden are affected by honour-related violence and oppression and are simply not allowed to decide their own lives. Growing up in homes where alcohol and drugs are abused also means a great deal of exposure to many children and young people in Sweden. In these coronatimes when many are encouraged to stay at home, work from home and be at home more, we receive alarming signals that domestic violence is increasing. Efforts are currently being made to combat this. But my concern for the children living in a vulnerable situation is increasing. Thousands of children in Sweden have guardians who fail their most important task: to give care and care to their children. These may be short periods when life falls apart. But in some cases the problems can be long - lasting. We're all different. We're all people. And life can hit us hard. That doesn't mean we're bad or bad. But society should and must be there for anyone who needs help. Society must also give priority to the child's situation. For whatever reason, society must give priority to a child's safe upbringing in a home where adults care and care for the child. The children are our future. Social services and social welfare boards around Sweden have a difficult but extremely important task when it comes to determining when it is best for children to live in another home. They have several tools in their box. It may be a question of a removal ban if a reunification or a move back home should be postponed in the short term. They have the opportunity to shift custody from the biological parents to the family home parents, a so-called custody transfer. They can also look at the possibility of adoption in Sweden. Far too many children who are in community care – in family homes, on-call homes or other solutions – are often forced to move around. It is not uncommon that these children, growing up, may have lived in three four different family homes. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare's report on national adoptions of children in family homes from 2014, on 1 November 2012, approximately 9,000 children were placed in family homes. A quarter of them had been placed for five years or longer. About 800 children had been placed for ten years or longer. However, in the same year, 2012, only 246 custody transfers and only 14 adoptions were made to the family home parents. We do not know exactly what these figures are today, which is unfortunate. But it is clear that custody transfers and adoptions are not used to the extent necessary. We want to create a real change for some of the most vulnerable children. Then custody transfer and adoption are the right way to go. When a child is placed in a family home and has linked to this family and when it seems unlikely that the guardians will be able to assume their parental responsibility in the foreseeable future, it is time for society to act. It is extremely good and I am grateful that we have a broad political consensus on standing up for these children and their right to protection and help and a safe upbringing. Their right shall weigh as much as, if not burdened by, the parents' right to their children. Children are people, too. Children are right, too.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-259	Madam President, I would like It is always a challenge to be the last speaker in a debate where there are very many committed members in the committee. We also see that there is a relatively large consensus on many of the important issues, although it may differ slightly in the details. Especially when it comes to children's rights, there is a great deal of commitment. This was evident when, for example, Tenfjord Toftby and Johansson gave their speeches. As I understand it, there are discussions within all parties about children's rights in relation to parents' rights. In my party, children are often discussed in relation to their parents' position. We think that today's legislation is often old-fashioned compared to the way we look at children today and with the Convention on the Rights of the Child in front of us. We discuss, for example, the existence of a parental code, but there is no child code. Children have been seen and are sometimes still seen as belongings of parents. As a parent, one can even act harmful to the child but still have many rights, while the child's right to a safe upbringing is obscured. Society can sometimes be a little naive in its view and believe that all parents are doing the best for their children. We are marked by the view that parents can absolutely fail in their responsibilities, but they are still the child's parents. Yes, they may want the best for their child, but for various reasons they are not able to offer it. Willing is not enough. Repeatedly in today's debate has rightly been mentioned that there are events involving children that have touched us deeply. Assessments have been made in such a way that they have had the worst possible consequences for children. I think that everyone who has worked closely with children and young people has been concerned about how a child is at home. We must be able to make adult decisions in such cases. I've been teaching. There is the directive that the notification should be made in the event of the slightest concern. That's absolutely right. But I also know how to be in agony on this issue. Is there a risk that the situation has been misunderstood? Could it be even worse for the child if I make a complaint and someone starts looking into it? It is very sensitive to question the behaviour of parents, but for all children we must be able to cope. This is a difficult and sensitive subject. Much of what this is all about is not really on the Committee on Civil Liberties but on the Committee on Social Affairs. What takes place outside the Riksdag, however, is not directly divided by committee. That is why, like many others, I wanted to raise a little about this. I would also like to say something about the areas of family law where work is going on. I would like to make four main points. In July last year, the government set up an investigation to review the rules for good men and trustees. The aim is to address shortcomings that have been highlighted. This is something that has been asked for, and we have also raised this earlier in the debates on family law. The investigation commission states that, among other things, it should look at how the recruitment of competent deputies can be facilitated, in which cases professional deputies can be appointed and how deputies can receive better support during ongoing assignments. The establishment of a national representative register should also be looked at. The report will be presented by February next year. At the end of February this year, Minister for Gender Equality Lindhagen spoke about the investigation that has been set up with the need to modernise legislation for so-called rainbow families. Among other things, it is necessary from the perspective that if two mothers with children move to Sweden, only one mother is considered a parent here. We politicians have been courted from various quarters about this. The obvious problem of children's perspective has been pointed out. In a move here, a child is in danger of losing a legal parent, which can have serious consequences in different situations. The study will submit proposals for improvement by June next year. Work is also ongoing in the Government Office on the report on paternity and parenthood presented in 2018. One can say that it is about what it is called, namely the prerequisites for parenting for a spouse or registered partner in assisted fertilization and whether it should be presumed in the same way as paternity is presumed to a married man. The study also made suggestions on how to modernise the rules on the confirmation of paternity and parenthood, possibly with the existing digital opportunities. Finally, I would like to mention the work that is going on at the Ministry to produce a legislative referral on the basis of the Se barn report! that came a few years ago. It was about the problem of the increase in the number of custody conflicts. We know that these are conflicts that no one benefits from – no children, mothers or fathers. Among other things, the study has proposed improvements. I can give you three examples here, and we will see what might come later in a proposal. 中 Compulsory information calls shall be held prior to the court proceedings. In assessing the custody issue, particular attention shall be paid to the ability of the parents to take joint responsibility in matters relating to the child. The possibility of deciding whether joint custody should exist even if both parents oppose it. We have been hard on the Minister that proposals must come soon, and we have been promised that the work is going on. All in all, I hope will be important proposals that we will come back to and debate in more detail here in Parliament. What has been raised earlier in the debate on polygamy is also such a proposal. However, since many have spoken about it, I do not need to extend the speaking time with it. I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-273	Madam President, I would like We in the Moderates support all our reservations in the report, but for time winning, I only call for reservation 1. We are now going to debate what is called the circular economy, i.e. questions about how we can use and reuse our resources in the best possible way in a circular economy. An average European consumes between 10 and 20 tonnes of resources each year, and if a larger proportion of these resources are recycled, of course, the need to extract new ones is reduced. The task of the policy is therefore to create good conditions for different actors to take responsibility for their waste and to safeguard the polluter pays principle. The task is also to support new circular business models where products can be reused and where waste is no longer just waste but can continue to be used. Working towards a more sustainable and resource-efficient society is important for both the environment and climate, and it is gratifying that we see such a great commitment and demand among Swedish consumers. In addition, more and more business models are based on a circular economy. In the clothing industry, for example, we see many good examples of more circular thinking, and sustainable Swedish fashion is taking more and more place. Many Swedish brands are doing a great deal of work to use more sustainable materials and manufacturing processes. Large clothing chains like H & M have started collecting and renting clothing. At the same time, we see new exciting companies, such as Hyber, which offers subscription services for second-hand children's clothing that can be upgraded as the child grows. Much remains to be done for sustainability in both the clothing industry and other industries, but it is a positive and rapid development that we see. Concrete action is now needed to support the circular economy in more areas. It is good that the government wants to develop a national strategy and that an action plan is developed within the EU. But already three years ago, the European Commission presented a circular economy strategy. The report that is being discussed today often refers to investigations that the government has set up or to investigations that have been completed but where the matter is being prepared. It is now important that it does not stop at strategies or that issues disappear in investigations. It is time to act when both businesses and consumers want change here and now. As in other policy areas, the transition to a circular economy must be cost-effective and result-oriented. However, we note that the government often prioritises blunt or ineffective proposals over reforms that make a real difference. In many cases, the government's main weapon appears to be excise duty, which is problematic when in many cases it leads the wrong way. Taxes on electronics, plastic bags and waste incineration are some examples. These are measures that have had or appear to have relatively small or no positive effects on the environment. Follow-ups are also bad. This applies, for example, to the waste incineration tax, where even his own investigator has advised against its introduction. Several of the taxes come with limited environmental impact but with a high price for Swedish consumers and companies. That is bad politics, Madam President. I also say as Mats Hedenström, Head of Enterprise Policy of the Swedish Commerce Federation, on the proposal for a tax on chemicals in clothing and shoes.In a situation where the Swedish fashion trade is severely affected by the acute Corona crisis, it would be tone-deaf if the government chooses to move forward with an excise duty on Swedish fashion. ..................................................... What needs to be done? The Moderates have put forward many proposals in the report. Today, however, I would like to highlight a few issues in particular. Firstly, politics must specifically remove red tape and barriers for all those companies and municipalities that are currently taking the initiative for more circularity but are encountering regulatory barriers. One example is the view of waste. In order to increase recycling rates and create better conditions for a circular economy, a change of approach to waste is important. What is currently considered and managed as waste needs to become, to a greater extent, a resource that is recycled. Today's regulations complicate the reuse of materials in contexts other than what it was originally used in. Take, for example, the packaging plastic used in product deliveries, which is categorized as waste instead of a by-product. This makes it difficult to reuse new packaging or new products from the material. It doesn't make sense. The Moderates welcome the fact that Sweden is taking steps in the right direction through EU directives on waste. But ambiguities also remain there which create uncertainty and make it difficult for companies that either want to recycle waste or buy materials that have previously been classified as waste. There is a need for clearer guidance from the responsible authorities so that more companies' waste can be used as a resource. Secondly, make it easy to do the right thing. We need more consumer information and life cycle analysis. Consumer power makes a difference. From a political point of view, we should strengthen consumers' ability to make informed choices, in particular by requiring information on the environmental and climate impact of products. In order to be able to do the right thing, it needs to be easier to gain knowledge about environmental and climate impacts and life cycle analyses that can provide an overall picture of the environmental impact of a product throughout its life. Such an analysis assesses the environmental impact of raw material extraction, production process and waste management. A life cycle analysis also gives producers a greater opportunity to target their environmental efforts towards those areas where their products have the greatest negative environmental impact. Thirdly, plastic recycling is also an important issue. As part of reducing plastic use, many attempts are made to develop products that are less than their predecessors containing precisely plastic. This applies, for example, to paper cups that have only a thin plastic membrane or equivalent for cartons for sauces, for example. These are excellent examples. But one challenge is to achieve effective recycling because material separation is very difficult. As part of efficient resource use, we therefore need to continue to stimulate development and research in more material separation so that we do not miss out on the benefits of using more sustainable materials in themselves. Madam President, I would like I am hopeful for the future. Consumers, businesses and municipalities are on their toes to create new circular flows and business models that make better use of resources than today. Policy can make this change possible through regulatory simplification, cutting red tape, new legislation and clearer help and support from public authorities. Strategies and action plans are good. I welcome the need for a holistic approach to politics. But don't let it delay important changes that we can bring about here and now. As has already been said, consumers and businesses are already at a very advanced stage, and policy must not be a brake on the circular economy.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-297	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the circular economy. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 17. If we look globally, we have a huge problem in this area. A circular economy hardly exists in many countries of the world. We do not need to go far down Europe to discover that most of the waste is handled by burying it. If we look out towards Asia, we see that the collection usually does not even work, but the waste is spread more or less uncontrollable, which may have consequences for our seas and watercourses in particular. Sweden has seen this as a success story. Waste is no longer seen as a problem but as a resource. It is a resource that stakeholders today can fight over in order to have the right to collect. Madam President, I would like Perhaps the most well-known reform in this area is the tax on plastic bags introduced just over a week ago. The tax has directly had the expected effect of driving up the price of certain plastic bags. I'm afraid that's of no use at all. It works today even inhibiting the Swedish recycling industry, as the demand for recycled plastics is now decreasing in favour of the demand for fossil plastics, which is also manufactured abroad. As a result, we have also seen staff reductions in companies in Sweden. This may not be a huge question. But it still points to the problem of Swedish symbolism policy where the purpose of an action does not go together with the outcome. What has been described as an environmental improvement measure will, at best, only be a cost increase for citizens and, at worst, reduce the opportunities for driving the circular economy. Some dolphins will certainly not benefit from this. The same can also be said of the taxes already imposed on consumer electronics sold in Sweden and waste incineration or the forthcoming or at least announced taxes on clothing. Nor will these have any environmental impact, but will hamper Swedish industry without benefiting the environment or a circular economy. Madam President, I would like The emergence of a circular economy is a Swedish success story where there is a lot more to do. However, we can still say that we have come a long way. As far as collection and recycling are concerned, it is an area in which we meet a great deal of the objectives we have set ourselves, which is not the usual one when we discuss the objectives in environmental areas. It is still important to strive for regulatory simplification and also to create better opportunities to promote the collaborative economy. There is much more to be done in this area. Often the problem is precisely the regulatory framework, which is not necessarily bad but which, nevertheless, in a regrettable way hampers further development. Environmental rules are an important issue. It is about legislation, regulations, regulations, bureaucracy and authorities. However, there is today a major problem of double regulation affecting entrepreneurs. There, two or more authorities make demands that are in principle overlapping. These are rules which, in practice, could be abolished without any negative effect. We want companies to be able to relate and report to as few authorities as possible. Madam President, I would like The amount of food waste today is a huge waste of resources. It is a waste that affects the environment. We simply do not use the resources we have in the best way. But it also affects people's personal finances. For example, a Swedish family with children could save thousands of SEK each year by making better use of all purchased food and all other purchased goods. By making better use of waste and food at all stages from the production, transport and processing of both traders and consumers, major unrealised opportunities for socio-economic savings and also opportunities to reduce our use of earth's resources are opened up. Information efforts should be improved in this area. The government should also work towards derogations at EU level in terms of the best-before-date. The Swedish eggs, which are chilled, are a common example of the area. This means that every year shops are forced to throw away eggs that are still fully edible. Madam President, I would like In the work to reduce food waste there are several challenges. One problem is how to define the concept of food waste. For example, the UN agency FAO uses a different definition than that used by Swedish authorities. Clear targets need to be set, so you can welcome the proposal that has come from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. A further prerequisite for achieving future objectives is the development of measurement methods. Today, for example, not all flows are visible. Then there are other problems in terms of measurement and reporting. IVA presented earlier this year a report that partly addresses this and which I find very interesting. It discusses precisely how these problems can be solved. These are, in part, proposals for voluntary agreements in front of regulations and that this should be designed in combination with various forms of financial incentives. We think these might be good ideas to take on. In order to reduce red tape and administration, we also need to look at whether it might be useful to place responsibility on fewer authorities and coordinate this with a single authority.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-311	Madam President, I would like A circular economy policy is an extremely important building block in the construction of a sustainable society. Ending the cycle and not constantly consuming new resources is crucial to meet the climate challenge. But it is also important from a different perspective. Quite apart from the need to reduce our emissions, there are raw materials that are simply at risk of running out. Unfortunately, some of these raw materials are also those that are often extracted with a major impact on the environment and climate, but also in terrible circumstances for miners and local people. In other words, it is not resources that we should want to waste but which we consume too lightly. A circular economy, where the cycles are closed, is thus a major step towards both environmental and social sustainability. It is also something that an innovative Sweden should benefit from. Madam President, I would like The Center Party strives for a sustainable society. In the report, we have put forward proposals on how recycling can increase in Sweden and in the EU. We have put forward proposals aimed both at making it easier for you as a consumer to act in a sustainable way and at making it easier for entrepreneurs who want to make money by closing the loops. We will need everyone's drive to find the solutions in time for our transition to a sustainable society. This applies both to the political will found in this House and to the drive of the entrepreneur to develop his company and to the individual's willingness to live in a more sustainable way. Madam President, I would like One tool that should be used more for sustainability to permeate our economy is the EU Ecodesign Directive. The directive aims to reduce environmental impacts throughout the product chain but should be able to develop and broaden. It can be broadened by extending to more product groups and developing by setting ecodesign requirements for life and energy use and for the product to actually be recycled. One challenge we face is that products are simply not made to last and that they are not made to be recycled in a sensible way on the day they break down. If we together in the European Union can demand design for sustainable and recyclable products, much is won, and many of the challenges faced by recyclers today could be solved. For the same reason – to promote more sustainable production and re-use – we want to strengthen consumer protection and extend statutory consumer law from six months to one year. We also want the right of complaint to be able to follow the goods instead of the original buyer. We want consumption to be more sustainable, and then the regulations must also take up height in order for recycling and recycling to be at least as natural as buying something new. Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants to strengthen individuals' ability to make conscious choices in the grocery store as well. It is difficult for the consumer today to make an informed choice when it comes to climate aspects of food. Food accounts for about a quarter of Swedish emissions of climate gases. At the same time, three out of four consumers want to be able to choose food with a lower climate impact. We therefore want to see a clear and mandatory climate labelling of food, like nutrition declarations, in order to facilitate consumer choice. Climate labelling should cover both imported and domestically produced food. Emissions shall be calculated from a life cycle perspective including emissions from transport and packaging. Initially, products with the highest carbon footprint should be covered, but by extension more goods and services should also be covered by such declarations. To conclude, Madam President, we in the Center Party want to see an ambitious Swedish strategy for a bio-based circular economy. The strategy should set objectives and visions as well as concrete and effective measures. Particularly important is that the strategy addresses how we can utilise and circulate critical resources and raw materials such as phosphorus and rare earth metals. This is something that we are now working towards within the framework of the January agreement. We know that everyone wants to see a circular economy. It is time we nailed the road map for how we get there. I would ask you to accept Amendment No 7.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-321	Madam President, I would like Today's debate is about the circular economy – an area that really affects much more than is covered in this particular report. It is also an area in which we seem to agree fairly that it is important for society to become more circular, but where we have different views on what it might mean for us in practice, both as a vision for society and as individual proposals. For the Left Party, a circular economy is central as part of the climate transition. We want an economy that is circular, where we do not take out more from nature than is sustainable and where raw materials and products can be reused, recycled or recycled. Such an approach is central to meeting the climate challenges we are in the middle of. In this year's report, the Left Party has a number of claims linked to precisely plastic and the return system, which is why I will now dwell on this. As I said today, we are taking more resources from nature than we are sustainable. During the last century, we have seen that developments have run smoothly. For example, plastic packaging has increased exponentially in recent decades. Since 1960, the world's production of plastic has increased twentyfold and is expected to double again in the next 20 years if development does not change. In a world where the supply of raw materials is becoming increasingly scarce and environmental challenges are growing, innovation and higher value added products are becoming increasingly important. The return system we have today is important and something we would like to see Sweden build on. In the long term, it should be possible to find a return system based on principles of both recycling and recycling, and a first step further that we want to see is that all beverage packaging in plastic or metal sold in Sweden, with some possible exceptions, is included in an approved return system. In 2016, the Swedish Board of Agriculture carried out a review of the return system and already proposed an extended deposit system with several parts that would be worth implementing. There is also reason to introduce deposit systems or similar on additional plastic products to stimulate collection and recycling, a development that we would also like to see coordinated with our Nordic neighbours. Plastic is in many ways an amazing material with many advantages in a number of areas, such as health care. Plastic should therefore be used where it is most suitable. Sustainable use of plastics requires that a large part of the plastic produced can be recycled or reused and is therefore of a higher quality than it does today. Today we consume large amounts of plastic which, after use, cannot go anywhere other than to incineration. It may be that the plastic contains environmentally harmful substances, that it consists of many different types of plastics or that it is of very low quality. Responsibility therefore also needs to be placed with the producers, and restrictions on the type of plastics or the type of plastic products we manufacture need to be reviewed. A circular economy brings obvious benefits for the environment and climate if, at the same time, we allow it to lead to a reduction in the extraction of our natural resources. The circular economy can also lead to the achievement of decent working conditions and poverty objectives. It is often early in production that working conditions are at their worst. We have seen examples of this in mineral mines and in the shoe factories in Bangladesh, to name a few. A circular economy based on the production of durable products with a long service life, with the possibility of repair, recycling and recycling, should reasonably impose completely different requirements on production and, in the long term, on companies. The rate of production should fall as the number of items consumed decreases, with factory workers around the world having the time to produce a product under reasonable working conditions and at reasonable wages. Quality is not rushed. Our on-demand and wear-and-slip society should shift to a circular society based on quality and slow consumption. Madam President, I would like An important conclusion when we talk about the future circular society is that it takes us out of the status quo. It does not allow continued consumption patterns because the overall load on earth must be reduced, which is one of the main objectives of the circular. Moving towards greater recycling and re-use while new production continues at the same pace is not a sustainable way forward. Therefore, talk about circular society must not be an alibi for continuing to increase production but a transition to a more sustainable and less resource-intensive society. Madam President, I would like I support our Amendment No 9.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-332	Madam President, I would like Of course, we support all our reservations both in the report and in the simplified procedure, but in order to gain time at voting time, I am only calling for reservation No 10 here. It is gratifying that the circular economy is becoming increasingly in the cry again and on many fronts, although we may usually use other words for the phenomenon. Then the circular economy is really not something new but something old that has become in the cry again. I guess that's because people have realized it's good even if it's old. I inherited clothes from older siblings or older friends myself. It was all right when you were a kid. Was it someone you really looked up to, it was a festive time when you had to put on your clothes, even though they were neither new nor modern. In old hunting pictures you can see that the men – because then it was only men – didn't have any fancy hunting clothes that we have today. They were wearing their old wool suit. When the wool suit was so worn that it was no longer good enough in the nicer rooms you had it when you were on the hunt. So we can continue to line up what it looked like. But even then, of course, there was an end when the clothes could no longer be saved. At home in my closet there are still rag rugs with my old trousers and shirts woven in. That was the end of the line. Perhaps the idea then was not a circular economy, but rather an economy. Today, most of us live under completely different conditions, but we should still learn from this. We must constantly strive for long-term decision-making and systematic forward work on the circular, as it leads to better results and thus a faster transition to a more resource-efficient society – where we actually need to. Madam President, I would like Plastic is an amazing material when it is in the right place. A good friend of mine and almost neighbour on the Norwegian side of the border says that he thanks Gud for the plastic every day. The plastic is good, but unfortunately it often takes a beating in the debate. Then we focus on plastic that is in the wrong place. In one of the Committees of the Christian Democrats we write that Sweden should work for an international new manufacturing fee on fossil plastic. Economic incentives are often effective and would probably also have an effect on increasing plastic recycling. Plastic is a common material found in countless products. It is also cheap to produce and has many desirable characteristics that are demanded for many different types of products. Many of the plastic products are disposable or are only used for a short period of time. Then plastic objects are thrown into the garbage and unfortunately too often also in other places. From people's communities, plastic litter spreads further into nature. It has been estimated that four fifths of all marine litter is plastic and, as I mentioned earlier in this House, 90% of this plastic comes from only ten rivers. Eight of these rivers are located in Asia and two in Africa. It shows that we must also help other countries in their jobs. It is important to reduce plastic litter as well as to avoid fossil plastic burning with accompanying carbon dioxide emissions to the atmosphere. The main strategy to prevent these phenomena should be to increase recycling. With a new manufacturing fee, plastics would have a higher recycling value, and plastics made from non-fossil materials would have much easier access to the market. Madam President, I would like We have had a lot of discussions lately about domestic collection of newspaper. This has been a hot potato ever since I entered the Riksdag in 2018, and there have been many contacts from many different actors to point out the problem with this. During the previous parliamentary term, the Government decided on new regulations that apply to introduce new requirements for the collection of packaging and newspapers. The requirements aim to increase recycling and move the collection closer to people's homes. This is fundamentally positive, but the outcome of the government's proposal can be very substantial costs which, moreover, would be passed on to consumers. Therefore, in our committee motion, we had written that the current cost-effective collection of newsprint should be allowed to continue. Otherwise, there is a risk that Swedish paper recycling will stop working because it will be significantly cheaper to import paper from abroad. Since then, a lot has happened in the last few months, which has made this exercise out of date. Now we hope that we will find a solution for the Swedish paper recycling so that we do not break down an already well-functioning system. The recycling rate today is about 90 per cent. However, we see great potential for improvement when it comes to other fractions such as plastic. Then it is not only recycling that would be affected, as the situation now stands, but also our Swedish media would be severely affected if we were to introduce the proposal that the government has previously made with regard to the household collection. That is why a workable solution must be found. I am pleased that the government has taken on board the criticisms both from affected actors and from other political parties and hope for a good decision on this issue. Madam President, I would like It is estimated that about one third of all food produced is discarded without being eaten. This applies from the farmer to the final consumer and everything that is discarded at all stages from raw material to finished product at home in the refrigerator. At the same time, the pressure on our planet's resources is increasing, which places increasing demands on us to manage both food and agricultural land. Most of the waste is done in households, but also retail has a significant food waste. Once again, Madam President, we should learn from old times. It is not dangerous to smell or taste food to find out if it is ashamed. The date mark on some foods is absolutely horribly short, as we heard in a previous post here, and many follow the date mark slavishly and thus dare not eat food that went out without throwing it away. One of my peers had a small country store in a neighboring village. She says herself that she was raised on too old food, because the parents brought the food that passed the best-case date from the store and ate it at home instead of throwing it away. She, like me, is now approaching 50 and living in the best condition. We need to change our attitude and realize that it is not dangerous to smell or taste food. Unfortunately, here too, we see that the EU is poking into detail without taking into account the fact that the climate is very different in different parts of Europe, as we heard here earlier about eggs, for example. Today, traders dare not freeze cold goods before they go out. The Swedish Food Safety Agency's regulations give the impression that it is not allowed, but on the Swedish Food Safety Agency's website you have a slightly more liberal attitude. In addition, different inspectors do in different ways in different municipalities. By freezing cold goods you can reduce the waste. At the same time, customers have the opportunity to buy the frozen products at a better price, which is welcome to many. That is why we propose that the Food Act be clarified so that it is clear that stores may freeze refrigerated goods. Otherwise, processing is the easiest way to handle food that is about to pass the best before date. Shops could, for example, be allowed to use meat and make lunch boxes to sell over the counter. If a store does not have that possibility, it may be able to collaborate with other businesses such as schools and catering companies. We therefore believe that the Swedish Food Safety Agency should make it clear to traders that they are allowed to process their cold goods, such as chicken and minced meat. The Swedish Food Safety Agency should also be tasked with developing a guidebook for entrepreneurs on how to reduce their food waste. Finally, Madam President, the Christian Democrats propose that an investigation be carried out into the way in which producer responsibility for the negative environmental impact of medicinal products is to be designed. The system of producer responsibility already applies to a number of products. Medications and residues of drugs in our waste water require additional treatment in wastewater treatment plants, and many times this is not enough to completely reduce environmental toxins. It is reasonable for the pharmaceutical industry, like other industries with environmentally hazardous substances, to take on producer responsibility and to cover the environmental cost of leaking toxins from its production via the sewage network or into the stormwater.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-358	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating motions from general exercise time. I agree with all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to Liberals' reservation No. 5. Madam President, I would like Circular economy, what is it? The previous speakers considered that there had always been some sort of existence. We have reused clothes for economic reasons. They have eventually become rag rugs and perhaps even insulation in log houses. Today it is about Sweden becoming a fossil-free welfare country. It is important that the circular economy contributes to the environmental and climate objectives and to achieving several of the global sustainable development goals of Agenda 2030. There is an ambition regarding the development of the circular economy through the January agreement between the Liberals, the Government Parties and the Center Party. It shows that the development of a resource-efficient, circular and bio-based economy will be strengthened. What does this mean? A broad review of the rules on recycling and management of waste and residues is to be carried out, not least in order to promote innovation and entrepreneurship. It will be easier for households to recycle and recycle. It is about textiles, small electronics and much more. There will also be an investigation into claims for pledges. We will increase the collaboration between the municipal waste management and the producer responsibility system. These are minimum levels of service for household waste including packaging, newspapers, heavy waste and hazardous waste. We will also look at product passports, hyber deductions and possibilities for renting out movable property. Certainly, there is a need for common EU rules for more circular economy with non-toxic and resource-efficient cycles within the EU's internal market. The waste area is complicated. As soon as you start looking at it, there will be reactions from many actors. We in the Liberals think it is important to find a system where the consumer perspective is included in order to achieve a circular economy. Madam President, I would like Liberals have long had a great deal of commitment, both locally and nationally, to reducing the use of natural resources and increasing the reuse of materials. We believe in economic incentives in the form of green tax shifting, which can contribute to the necessary change. The recycling of materials must be constantly improved. Producers have a great responsibility to ensure that products can be easily reused or that the input materials can be recycled. Product design plays an important role in facilitating the reuse or recovery of the product. Many citizens are just pointing this out. How can I fix an electronic device instead of throwing it away and buying new ones? Consumers have a great interest in being able to reuse different types of products. Life expectancy and durability are central. The use of plastics must be reduced and recycling increased. Unfortunately, plastics today have a significantly lower recycling rate than many other products. Liberals welcome work at EU level on a plastic strategy, as well as the fact that many commercial companies have already taken initiatives to reduce the use of plastic bags, for example. We must throw away less food, and the waste that is, after all, must be used in the best possible way, for example through biogas production. Households need to be made aware of the importance of reducing food waste. More and more municipalities are actively working to recycle more food waste, both within households and within the municipality's various large kitchens. This should increase. The waste can be used for energy production and thus reused, bringing great benefits to society. Madam President, I would like Packaging and recycled paper have been a major topic of discussion in committee. The issue has involved many people, which shows how important these issues are too. It also shows the complexity of the issues, which affect many different perspectives and factors. I am pleased with the committee's position on recycled paper. We in the Liberals think that the wording of the report was finally good. It highlights the importance of taking account of economic consequences but also the consequences for the newspaper industry and for democracy, which is an important task for newspapers and journalism. There are two different regulations on packaging and recycled paper – for clear reasons, one being governed by EU directives and the other by national decisions. Keeping collecting packaging and recycled paper is important. It is hoped that this collection will lead to an impact on the design, mainly by packaging, so that consumers get better packaged products. But a newspaper is a newspaper. It plays an important role, and the printed word in newspapers plays a role. Although digitalisation continues at a rapid pace and the design of the future newspaper is uncertain, these are important aspects even when we discuss waste management issues. In any case, it would be very unfortunate if recycling and waste management in themselves would have a negative impact on the future opportunities of newspapers. In the committee's handling, we have had a lot of discussions. We've had a visit from the department. We have also noted the press release that the Government has sent out on the issues. We now welcome the fact that there is a broad consensus in the committee on finding solutions that also take into account the importance of democracy and the opportunities of the newspaper industry in the future. We welcome the fact that there is broad agreement. Madam President, I would like A circular economy will contribute to a non-toxic cycle of products. We in the Liberals see it as important that consumers can choose and have good information about what they buy and consume. It must be made easier for consumers to have products fixed. It is important that all actors in society contribute and take responsibility for the development of the cycle. For there are huge amounts of clothing thrown away each year. Electronics are gathering on high. Plastic leaks into nature and affects the cycle. The food waste continues to be great. This is a huge waste of natural resources, both nationally and globally. We in the Liberals want to help change that.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-384	Madam President, I would like Just as Elin Segerlind began by saying, it feels like we are quite in agreement on this matter. We call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the motion to be rejected. The report erroneously states that there should be a special opinion by Mr S. It does not, but we support the proposal. The comrades in the committee have been very eloquent and talked about the re-use of previous generations – how we have used resources in the past much better, mostly for economic reasons. I note that today we have a market that designs products to break down. It's harmful for the most part. In my holiday home I have two refrigerators that are at least 50 years old, which are stomping on and walking perfectly well. In my villa in Norsjö where we have lived for 20 years we have probably changed refrigerators four times. It is not because they have been bad but simply because they have broken. This is harmful to the future and, of course, something we cannot afford to do. In this perspective, I agree with Nina Lundström that consumer demand for sustainable materials is extremely important. From politics, we must also make higher demands and have higher ambitions in order to ensure that consumers get suitable products that are durable and workable. This requires new ways of working and new business models. The model of free trade that we are seeking also requires better labelling and that we in the European Union agree to introduce customs duties or a complete ban on sales of harmful or non-recyclable materials. For me as a social democrat, it is self-evident to contribute to the globally sustainable use of earth's resources. As an innovative and open country, Sweden has the prerequisites for this. We have innovative companies and a market that wants and can take on this responsibility. A residual product is a product that is marketable in the next stage. It is important that it is designed so that it can actually be recycled. In a product where plastic and paper are mixed, for example, the materials must be distinguishable. Progress must be made, and we must promote research and innovation in order to perhaps produce cartons without plastic, which contain liquid. This is the so-called ecodesign requirement, which means that the producer must take into account the total environmental impact of the product at the design stage. We believe that this should be further developed. It is the kind of requirements and measures that actually enable us to take steps and enable a more sustainable society. Madam President, I would like Together with the cooperation parties, the Government has the ambition to take further measures to strengthen and develop recycling and make it easier to recycle and reuse textiles, among other things. It will be investigated whether we should introduce a deposit system that includes more products. We are looking at milestones for packaging. We also need to look at the recycling of electronics. Clear, strong efforts are needed to tackle the proliferation of plastics. Just as Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson from KD mentioned, plastic in the wrong place is wrong. Plastic in the right place can be very good. I myself am on leave of absence from a plastic chemical industry that makes plastic pipes to the va-sector and mining sector, cable protection pipes and so on, fully recyclable. They are also made from fossil parts, but as long as it is possible to recycle and make new products when the water pipe has eventually run out or been dug up, this is what needs to be rewarded. What needs to be addressed is, above all, the harmful disposable plastics. I also share the view that we must be a front country and push for, in order also to help other countries to phase out and start collecting. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is tasked with investigating how the near-by and block-by-block collection of packaging waste and recycled paper continues and what effects the extension of the system is expected to have on environmental benefits and increased accessibility, as well as on product development and competitive conditions. Responsibility for the collection of recycled paper, which has been mentioned here by comrades, is currently under discussion. Future collection of newsprint must take into account the impact on paper recycling, the cost of collection and the impact on journalism. The impact on the newspaper industry and the country's municipalities must be taken into account. Return paper collection must be cost-effective and promote the circular economy. For us Social Democrats, it is particularly important that the consumer does not pay several times. That's why producer responsibility was so good and so important. You pay when you buy the product, and then producer responsibility ensures that it is taken care of when it expires. If we are to introduce several different systems, it will be tricky. We really want to find a solution to this problem, but it is important that the consumer does not pay several times. Madam President, I would like Waste from electronic equipment and other electrical waste is one of the fastest growing waste streams in both Sweden and the EU. In many countries outside the EU, almost nothing is recovered. In reports we get, we can see pictures of children digging up phones and old TVs from dumps. This, of course, is not a good development. These products leak heavy metals straight out. It does not benefit the economy, the environment or the climate. However, these products have a very high value. In Sweden, we are the world leader. At Boliden's enrichment plant in Skellefteå, Rönnskärsverken, almost 50 per cent of the production is based on recycled materials. However, production depends on the presence of virgin material that can be mixed with the recycled material. We need to continue to develop this, and we also need to ensure that these virgin products can be broken in reasonable quantities. We are not going to make predatory use of our finite resources, and we need to create new processes for recycling more, especially of the rare-earth metals that are today essential for electrification. If we are to cope with the necessary electrification, we must also cope with the recycling of these products. In Sweden there is currently a legislative producer responsibility for electrical equipment and batteries. It is a good thing that we parties that are behind the January agreement have announced new measures and that an investigation is to be carried out into how producer responsibility for electrical equipment and batteries can be increased by, for example, requirements for a deposit for batteries, mobile phones and other electronics. A new regulatory framework is needed, which the government prepares, in order to improve collection and recycling and to ensure recycling of valuable materials and to phase out non-rechargeable batteries. Madam President, I would like A transition from a linear to a circular economy requires a change in entire value chains. This requires maintaining the value of materials throughout the life cycle, smarter production and more sustainable consumer patterns. I hope that during this term of office, although we are currently focusing on the world epidemic that is raging, we will be able to take more steps forward and become much more resource efficient.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-403	Madam President, I would like Members! The Corona crisis affects everyone's everyday life in general and small. Now the focus is on reducing the spread of infection, saving people's jobs and ensuring that health care is able to cope. But after the acute phase we are now in, the reconstruction of society is coming, and this is now being hotly debated on various leadership sides. The Corona crisis has exposed many vulnerabilities in our society. The crisis brings new experiences and thinking frameworks. After this crisis, I believe that our society will look different in many ways, and I am convinced that the circular economy will be even more a track for the future, as a result of the Corona virus. One of the vulnerabilities that has emerged is that global trade patterns and supply chains are fragile. We have seen how materials have stuck to borders and how production has stopped. One obvious conclusion to draw is that it is important to be prepared for production at home, in the Nordic countries and in Europe. The Academy of Engineering Sciences has recently produced a synthesis of several years of research, and one of the proposals in their report is to set up marketplaces to reuse and recycle products in the Nordic region. It is very important here to cooperate between different types of industries – industrial symbiosis, as it is called – circular marketplaces and to link this with the EU, which also has such work in progress. It is very important that we, from a political point of view, do everything we can to ensure that there are better markets to reuse and recycle materials in Sweden, the Nordic countries and the EU. Then, of course, we should not turn our backs on the world. For example, it is very important that developing countries are not faced with high tariff barriers and that they are helped to develop sustainable trade on fair terms. They are severely affected by the pandemic, resulting in an increase in poverty. But why is the circular economy so important in addition to emergency preparedness? I would rather call circular economy a planetary economy. What we're really talking about is an economy that stays within the limits of the planet – it's not the economy that sets the limits, it's actually the planet. Everything else is a chimare. The economy we currently have means that we are in constant debt to the future, to our children. Biodiversity is declining at a high rate. Today, a million species of animals and plants are threatened with extinction. Five times before, the earth has suffered a mass extinction that has wiped out almost all life in a short time. Now we are in something called the sixth mass extinction, and man is the cause. The linear production with wear and tear is based on the fact that there are cheap raw materials to use and constantly take out of the soil. It doesn't make sense. Environmental costs must be added to the calculation. There is a need for increased taxes on natural resources, so that we even out the prices between virgin materials and reused materials. Then there's the climate crisis. We now have only a few years to turn into a climate-smart society, and right now our young people cannot demonstrate in the streets and squares, but Greta Thunberg is still leading the demonstration digitally. The use of resources accounts for a very large part of climate emissions, and resource efficiency is a key to reducing emissions. There are many important social aspects to the circular economy as well. If we can circulate materials, we do not need to address natural resources under disgusting conditions in countries far away. Here at home we have a lot of unemployment waiting in the future. Circular production is very labour intensive, while linear production has more focus on machinery and natural resources. We therefore need to increase taxation on natural resources and have more favourable taxation on labour, so that there is a shift there, with continued good working conditions, of course. This is also supported by the parties in the January agreement. What measures do we need to take to boost the circular economy? This is something we've been talking about for a long time, but things happen frustratingly slowly, you might think. Sweden needs a clear vision for a circular economy, and the government is working on a strategy for this. The circular business models need to dominate over the linear ones. We need innovation and product design, to think outside the box. I've had the privilege of meeting many entrepreneurs and talking about this. They said, "What's the box?" Fuck it! There's no box! It is an incredibly positive spirit, curiosity and experimentation of the companies. It is also very important that product design, which several have mentioned here, and that you really work as early in the chain as possible, produce products that do not contain inappropriate materials and design the products so that they can be easily repaired and recycled. It is also important that products have a life expectancy that means that they last longer, that they are linked to consumer law and that they can be repaired. Public procurement can also go in and help drive these markets. It is in the Government's procurement strategy, and it is also in the climate action plan that we will work on this. Then regulations need to be changed, so that you go from seeing waste as waste to seeing it as a resource. It is an ongoing work. Much has been done, but much remains to be done. This is also included in the January agreement. We in the Green Party think it is important that we do not solve crises by creating other crises. It is important to have a nontoxic everyday life, to have a precautionary principle and to look at this on a case-by-case basis. I've been into this with a change of taxes: increased tax on inflated materials and reduced tax on labour. Something that emerges more and more after Corona concerns the financing of various circular projects. As you know, we have pilot projects and research. This is the valley of familiar death and then the commercial product. This is something that generally applies to projects in the area of sustainability. But this is even more true for circular business models, because they have very different goals. It is difficult for the financial sector to assess when circular business models are actually profitable. We need to look at this so that the financial sector is working towards achieving targets and measures, so that we can better assess these projects and so that we can get in properly with investments. To conclude, I would like to point out that we are now in an emergency phase, but soon we are in a post-corona reconstruction phase. Then we can't look back. We need to drive forward, or rather: we need to drive circularly instead of linearly. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-425	Madam President, I would like We Moderates are behind all our reservations, but for the spirit of time I only call for reservation 1. We are surrounded daily by thousands of chemicals in our daily lives. Some may benefit us while others are harmful. Many are vital and have been crucial to building the society we have today. Chemicals have, among other things, allowed longer durability for food, durable building materials and reduced risk of fire in electronics products. Chemicals also enable the development of medicines that prolong and save lives. Our modern society depends in many ways on innovations that benefit from chemicals. At the same time, there are risks. With increasing use of chemicals there is a responsibility for which chemicals we spread and how they affect the environment and us humans. Some chemicals have been shown to affect us negatively with substances that can cause cancer or allergies or affect the possibility of having children. And our children are perhaps the most sensitive to the chemicals we spread in our everyday lives. Some of these harmful chemicals are regulated by legislation. However, there are many environmentally and health hazardous chemicals that are not yet regulated or whose effects we do not catch up with today's regulations. We Moderates want to change this, and we assume that the government will speed up this work, both here in Sweden and perhaps in the EU in particular. We have many proposals in this area, but I would like to focus in particular on three different aspects of our chemicals policy. The first concerns so-called combined effects of chemical substances. There is much research on the impact of chemicals on the environment and human health. But often this research takes place on one subject at a time. The chemical mix to which we humans are exposed is becoming increasingly complex. It is important here that we act more forcefully. The international research project EDC-MixRisk shows that the health risks associated with mixing different chemicals, the so-called combination effect, are greater than previously thought. The concept of combined effects is well known, including in health care, where you talk about medicines that can even counteract each other. It is therefore incredibly important that we put stronger light on precisely the combined effects in chemical mixtures and human exposure to them in everyday life. The second important issue is microplastics in chemical products. Knowledge gaps are large in the extent to which microplastics affect human health and nature. But we know that animals all over the world are getting plastic. These range from marine zooplankton, mussels and fish to terrestrial birds and mammals. It is not clear, but experiments indicate that microplastics can be transported up into the food web from one species to another. So there are good reasons to limit the amount of microplastics in our waters. Sweden needs to press for a ban on deliberately added microplastics in chemical products to be introduced as soon as possible and to have an effect. Madam President, I would like Thirdly, more cross-border and effective work against dangerous chemicals, including in the case of countries outside the EU. Since 2007, the EU has in many ways a good and effective chemicals legislation, REACH, to create common rules in the internal market. As a result, legislation has become more comprehensive and ambitious, and environmental benefits have increased. But we can honestly also see that not all countries are following it. It is important that Sweden continues to act in favour of uniform European chemicals legislation rather than Swedish specific requirements. In the light of this, it is worrying when, for example, the government repeatedly returns to national excise duties – it could be chemicals in electronic products or chemicals in clothes and shoes, which have now been announced. The risk is that Swedish companies, which are often the best in this area too, will have to look outcompeted or challenged by actors from other countries who escape the corresponding legislation and taxes. Swedish consumers can still import these goods cheaply and easily via the internet. Madam President, I would like There is a need for reflection on the majority of excise duties that the government sees as the solution to these problems. I'm afraid the government's thinking all wrong. Harmful chemicals can, as I said, enter the EU via third countries, as they call it, that is, a non-EU country. More efforts are needed here. Among other things, there is probably a need for a higher level of awareness among Swedish consumers when it comes to the content of products that can be bought online with a simple click. We believe that the Agency or other relevant authority should be given a task of knowledge: to inform the public about the presence of banned chemicals in many of the products imported from outside the EU. In 2017, the Government decided to set up a coordination group with seven Swedish heads of authorities to detect potential chemical threats early on. That's very good. However, when it comes to the fact that many products do not meet the requirements of chemicals legislation, there seems to be the greatest problem among products imported from third countries. This is why the government should also work towards increased and strengthened cooperation between the authorities of different countries. This applies to the EU's authority but also to countries outside the EU. This should be done so that we can have more effective and tougher controls on the products we import. Madam President, I would like As I began by saying, chemicals can be our friends and prolong the sustainability of the food we eat or the buildings we live and work in. But chemicals can also cause damage. Harmful chemicals affect us here and now. In the longer term, they also affect the health of our children or the environment in which we live. We have a responsibility to act for the responsible management of chemicals and not just to do so EU-wide. It is also a question of making demands on countries in other parts of the world.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-443	Madam President, I would like Chemicals, which we are debating today, are something that we expose ourselves and nature to every day. Often there is talk of our chemicals with a negative ring. You might see a typical cartoon picture of green venomous grief in front of you. But chemicals are not always visible, and we all have chemicals around us in our everyday lives, both natural and human. They're not dangerous all the time. On the contrary, they can be aids, such as medicines, detergents, pesticides, etc. But in the wrong combination or in too much, even the best of substances can cause damage to us humans and the environment. It is therefore of great importance that, on the way forward in the field of chemicals, caution, education and science are guided with a constant improvement in knowledge of the effects of chemicals. It is perhaps primarily a question of the effects of chemicals in relation to each other. Therefore, it is important that we take our responsibility and regulate the use of chemicals in order to obtain the greatest possible benefit without doing any harm. It can be done in several ways. One way is to operate at EU level through REACH, where several countries can jointly register and register new substances and require the management of hazardous substances. However, a rather inefficient way of doing this is to try to tax companies and consumers in criminal terms, which are currently made through the special tax levied on consumer electronics sold in Sweden. Many of the products included in this category are today considered necessary in most households, such as refrigerators, washing machines, mobile phones and more. From an environmental perspective, this tax is difficult to justify, and it has mainly led to higher prices for consumers in Sweden and reduced competitiveness for Swedish entrepreneurs. Madam President, I would like For safe chemicals, research and technology development are A and O. Safe chemicals and responsible use can instead reduce human impact on the environment. To pursue unrealistic and unscientific objectives of eliminating chemicals or the like can be seen in this context as counterproductive, especially if the only real effect is that activities, such as agriculture and industry, move from Sweden to other countries. We can take pesticides as examples. Careful assessments of these, with continued broad safety margins in terms of both the environment and health, are of course preferable. On the other hand, we see it as counterproductive to impose penalties on our own farmers through, for example, specific taxation of pesticides. In all times, farmers have tried to protect their plants from pests. Plant protection products and resistant varieties are crucial for acceptable harvest levels. Risks related to chemical plant protection products vary greatly. Therefore, there is a rigorous system of assessment and trial – we only use those with less risk. The risks also vary greatly in the case of biological plant protection products. It would therefore be unfortunate if, in our efforts to reduce the risks of chemical pesticides, we were to say no to a chemical plant protection product and instead say yes to a more unsafe biological plant protection product. The systems for assessing and testing must be just as good. In fact, it is even more important not to make mistakes with regard to biological plant protection products, as it becomes more difficult to reverse. For example, if a harmful insect has established itself in Sweden, it is almost impossible to remove it completely. There is always a risk in Sweden that decisions are affected by something that is less popular than anything else, such as nuclear power or GMOs. Chemical pesticides have been given a negative tone, while biological pesticides are considered positive. At the same time, we know that some biological pesticides have led to major negative ecological effects, such as velvet forage and harlequine for example. It must be ensured that the system currently being developed for the testing of biological pesticides is effective, i.e. that it enables the market use of safe organisms and prevents the use of unsafe organisms. In fact, there is little knowledge today about the environmental impact of past years' use of different organisms for biological control because there are not much studies. The decisions taken for the authorisation of previously used organisms do not refer to any studies. In some way, the monitoring of authorised organisms must be carried out, not least because the climate becomes warmer and can cause species that have not previously been able to establish themselves in Sweden because of the cold may do so if it gets warmer. Madam President, I would like The current system is therefore flawed, and the system is not yet fully in place. We want to see an investigation that can ensure that the assessment and testing of biological pesticides are effective. Ideally, we would like the regulation of plant protection strategies to be completely technologically neutral. Safe strategies must be approved. Uncertain strategies should not be approved whether they are biological pesticides, chemical pesticides or modern plant breeding. It maximises economic and environmental benefits. For this reason, I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 6.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-455	Madam President, I would like Of course, we support all the motions we are discussing in this area, and I therefore call for reservation 3. Chemicals policy makes me think of a Norwegian television show. I live quite close to the Norwegian border and therefore watch Norwegian television sometimes. On Friday evenings, there was an entertainment program called Senkveld with two famous Norwegian entertainment profiles, where one – Harald Rønneberg – was challenged every time in a programme point called Once he, who was completely ignorant of ski jumping, had the challenge of jumping from the jumping slope in Holmenkollen in Oslo. Of course, he got a week of training, but then it was time to jump. A bit like jumping in Holmenkollen it feels like debating chemicals policy – an incredibly difficult and complicated area. Often in our environmental and climate debates, we refer to the generational target. The definition that exists for the generational goal is that the overall objective of environmental policy is to hand over to the next generation a society where the major environmental problems are solved, without causing increased environmental and health problems beyond Sweden's borders. ..................................................... We therefore take into account both what is happening in Sweden and what is happening in our surrounding world. The poisons released do not remain within national boundaries, but may equally affect other nations. Furthermore, it is actually our fellow human beings around the world who are at risk of being harmed if we do not have – as we are now discussing – a workable chemicals policy with the safe management of the chemicals that we need to have for our society to function in all parts. As we have heard before, chemicals are vital, and we must not forget that. Our children are particularly sensitive to chemicals, which is why political decisions should take this into account and aim specifically at protecting children and young people. However, we have challenges, not least with all the purchases we make on various digital platforms around the world. The goods come to our house without us having any idea what they actually contain. So we need to work to get all the countries in the world involved in handling chemicals carefully, not least so that we protect our children and young people. Madam President, I would like It is already possible for an independent principal to run preschool or school with a nontoxic profile. We believe that this should also be possible for a public principal. The Christian Democrats therefore propose that when a public actor who carries out activities for children makes a procurement, this actor should have the right to state for himself which environmental and health requirements apply, unless the counterparty can prove that the requirements are unjustified. This would range from toys and baby bottles to food and drink consumed primarily by children in the activities. The proposal also allows public actors to be the driving force behind environmental development. As we have heard, Madam President, in this area too we come into plastic, and one thing we often discuss is microplastics. Microplastics are plastic particles that in most cases are not visible to the naked eye. According to ECHA, the European Chemicals Inspectorate, 176 300 tonnes of microplastics are estimated to end up in the environment every year. The Baltic Sea is supplied with microplastics from, among other things, boat paints, laundry of synthetic clothing, hygiene products and make-up. From hygiene products alone, some 40 tons of microplastics are washed out in the Baltic Sea every year. In some parts of the Baltic Sea there are more than 100,000 particles per cubic metre of water. There's so much plastic! As we have also heard before, plastic is broken down very slowly in nature. Therefore, the levels of microplastics in our lakes and seas are gradually increasing. Microplastics in themselves can be a deadly threat to fish and other animals that ingest the plastic particles or otherwise are damaged. However, since the plastic is not broken down in the animals, the microplastics accumulate more and more in the food chain, with the consequence that it eventually strikes back at us humans, we who were once responsible for their coming out. Sweden already has a national ban on microplastics in certain cosmetic products. The EU Chemicals Agency has proposed a ban on intentionally added microplastics in chemical products. This ban would cover, inter alia, cosmetic products, detergents, paints and varnishes, medical devices and agricultural and horticultural products. The Christian Democrats support this ban on deliberately added microplastics. Sweden should work towards this ban within the EU. Madam President, I would like We often hear in the debate how our Swedish farmers work hard with both profitability and heavy regulatory burdens. In order to create more long-term and predictability for our food producers, we believe that the government should work to ensure that the authorities make greater use of the mutual recognition of plant protection products. In order to create a competitive environment in Swedish agriculture, account should be taken of how other EU Member States relate to plant protection products. This clearly indicates that the EU should be a strong player in the field of chemicals and that very much of our chemicals policy should be coordinated there. Because as we have said before: Chemicals can be incredibly dangerous, but properly used, they are very important for our survival. Madam President, I would like Nanoparticles have many uses, and we hear quite often about scientists who have made great breakthroughs in using nanomaterials for something that is of great benefit to us humans. However, we still know very little about how humans and the environment are exposed to the material, whose risk, spread and exposure are not sufficiently known. The existing legislation is inferior. REACH states that all imports or manufactures of chemical substances above 1 tonne per year must be registered. As nanomaterials are often used or imported in very small quantities, they risk falling below the threshold of this requirement, which means that the current legislation cannot fully generate the information needed to assess risks and, if necessary, take action. The Christian Democrats share the government's assessment that there is a great need to adapt legislation within the EU and to ensure that the interim goal of nanoparticles and nanomaterials is achieved. Finally, Madam President, environmental and allergy labelling are important tools for consumers to make wise choices about products. However, there is a fragmentation of labels that can lead to both confusion and a lack of coherence around some eligibility criteria. The Christian Democrats want to encourage standardisation of product labelling. We also want to see more open dialogue between businesses and consumers and better cooperation between stakeholders. That would be incredibly good for us consumers.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-472	Madam President, I would like Through its close connection to the mining industry, chemistry early gained a strong position in Sweden. Sweden's mineral wealth and the long tradition of mineral analysis contributed to Sweden's chemists being counted as discoverers of no less than 20 of 68 elements found during the 1700s and 1800s. Around us in the Riksdag building there are more traces of chemistry that span several centuries back in time – through Berzelii Park, Scheelegatan, Nobelgatan and Laboratoriegatan. But alas, alas, what a mistake it can be with chemistry through carelessness, neglect, ignorance, poor controls, neglect, lax political will or pure crime. DDT, Teckomatorp, TBT and bottom colours, Hallandsåsen with acrylamide, dumped poison barrels in the sea and PFAS – unfortunately, history is bordered by examples where chemistry has become harmful to animals, nature and humans. Chemistry is a powerful science and must be handled with respect. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report 14 on chemicals policy. The report deals, among other things, with the combined effects of chemical substances, microplastics in chemical products, PFAS, pesticides, information on chemicals and cooperation between the chemical authorities of different countries. Today, politics and chemicals policy are working on several levels: internationally, within the EU, in the Nordic countries and of course within Sweden. In Sweden, for example, we have the environmental quality target Non-toxic environment. We have an Action Plan for a non-toxic everyday life. We have the Chemicals Inspectorate, which is a central regulatory authority responsible for chemical control. We also have chemicals legislation, where chemicals regulations are largely and in turn coordinated within the EU. Madam President, I would like Speaking of the EU, we have the European Chemicals Agency, which works for the safe use of chemicals. The European Green Paper, the EU's new growth strategy, was launched last year. It also has a bearing on chemicals policy with, for example, zero emission vision for a non-toxic environment, but also that industry should promote a clean and circular economy. The development of the REACH chemicals legislation in the EU is therefore extremely important to influence. In principle, all chemical substances are covered by REACH. The Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate also operates a network between the most relevant Swedish authorities and is also part of an EU-level network run by the European Chemicals Agency. Legislation in the field of chemicals is currently largely coordinated, meaning that work within the EU is important in reducing the risks of hazardous substances. There is also a Nordic co-operation, the Nordic Chemical Group, which is part of the Nordic Council of Ministers for the Environment. The Swedish Chemicals Agency works with several countries around the world, giving advice and exchanging experiences. In the January agreement with its 73 points and the four-party agreement between us Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals there is a special point, paragraph 37, with direct bearing on microplastics. Microplastics are about small, small particles, plastic fragments and fibres of plastics and rubber. The presence on land and in the sea is due, among other things, to the degradation of plastic articles, textiles, fishing gear, rubber articles and tyre wear. Microplastics can be dangerous to animals, nature and humans. Microplastics are adjacent to the work of our chemical authorities, and the dissemination of microplastics is to be prevented by the January agreement, for example through the prohibition of microplastics in more products and the prohibition of unnecessary plastic articles. Furthermore, paragraph 38 of the January Agreement provides for the strengthening of a resource efficient and circular economy, and for an investigation to be carried out into the fact that all products should have a product passport with information on what the product contains, where it comes from and how it should be recycled or disposed of later. These examples mentioned in the January agreement are directly related to chemicals policy. Furthermore, in its latest budget proposal, the government argues that legislation in the EU needs to be applied and developed more rapidly to identify and address potential chemical threats. Regarding threats and injuries, we also have perfluorinated alkyl acids, PFAS. PFAS is used as an effective but toxic additive in, among other things, fire foam. Where fire foam with PFAS is used, contaminated soils and water may also be present. This may later harm animals, humans and nature. At the beginning of the year, the government asked the defense to plan and clean land where there may be traces of environmental toxins, for example from harmful fire foam, after military practice. This is welcome. As a social democrat, I want new chemicals to be allowed only if they are proven harmless. Chemicals should be replaced by less dangerous alternatives. It is particularly important to reduce the environmental and health risks of substances that we come into contact with in our everyday lives, such as food, water, clothing, shoes and toys. This is particularly important in children's environments. In a stronger society, tough environmental regulations will create security. That is why we Social Democrats want to see an even better chemicals regulatory framework in the European Union. Sweden can continue to lead the way by adopting national bans on hazardous chemicals. And endocrine disruptors should not be released and be able to affect people and the environment. Similar substances should be treated in groups. Heavy metals and other harmful substances shall be restricted or replaced. The rules must take account of the combined effects of dangerous substances. Together, we have created a safer Sweden by increasing the resources to clean up dangerous land and strengthen the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate's supervision of products that we come into daily contact with. There are still things that we have to do together. We need to continue to push for international action by tightening up global chemicals strategies. We need to sharpen the EU's work and legislation. We also need to let Sweden continue to be a role model in protecting people and the environment from exposure to dangerous substances while at the same time being able to develop jobs and entrepreneurship. The strategies being developed at the different levels will play a major role in the work for a non-toxic environment and hopefully be powerful instruments for reducing the environmental and health risks of chemicals. This will benefit us, our children and our grandchildren. Madam President, I would like Finally, I support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-496	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that it is good to be here today as a Member and to discuss matters from the Committee on Environment and Agriculture. I do it instead of Magnus Ek, who follows us from a distance. As many have said earlier today, chemicals are both necessary and can be completely lethal. For the Center Party, a non-toxic everyday life is a matter of course. It is not reasonable for us to expose ourselves to hazardous substances in clothes that we put on, in packaging for the food we eat or in toys that we buy for our children or grandchildren. Nor is it reasonable to have to have a minor degree in biology in order to be able to figure out if a product you buy contains harmful substances. That is something we must, in fact, expect that we will not have to expose ourselves to. The Center Party has previously talked about the need for a chemical phase in order for us as consumers to be able to make active choices, but it should preferably not be necessary. Unfortunately, we still have a long way to go here. Historical sins continue to expose us to contact with endocrine disruptors and dangerous chemicals, and speaking of Fass, this applies not least to medicines we eat. It is completely unreasonable for us to see traces of medication in our running watercourses and lakes – tracks that have come there through our sewers. We must change this. The victories we have achieved here in Sweden and in the EU are eroded by the fact that the control of imported products from countries with worse conditions does not work as well as one would wish. EU chemicals legislation continues to leave gaps for substances that can be harmful to humans and the environment for themselves or in conjunction with others. Madam President, I would like That is why it is very welcome that the European Commission's Green Paper promises an updated chemicals policy, and in particular that both the Commission and the European Parliament are committed both to the importance of better capturing health risks with endocrine disruptors and cocktail effects from several different chemicals, as well as to the importance of imposing the same requirements on imported as on domestic products. If that ambition is realised, Madam President, we can close many of the gaps that chemicals legislation has today. However, these are ambitions that need to be monitored. There will be those who oppose any tightening up of ambitions for a nontoxic everyday life. The Government, the Riksdag and the Swedish MEPs need to ensure that the focus does not lose its sharpness until it is completed. The Centre Party will do its bit to ensure that the EU has a better, more ambitious and more functional chemicals policy. Madam President, I would like For the time being, there is reason to think about what we can do in chemical policy at national level as well. We in the Center Party would like to see national work to look at which candidates are not yet banned at European level, but which we can and should take action at national level to phase out. During the term of office, an extended chemical tax is being investigated. It is in place, and so it is important for us in the Center Party that such a tax should become functional and governing and that we try to correct the major problems that exist with it. We all know that it has not been successful all the way. For example, it is not sufficiently suited to a reality of online commerce, global trade patterns and increasing re-use. It is also important that chemicals policy is adapted to the conditions and capacity of SMEs, for example, to test their products. Madam President, I would like Last, I would like to mention a specific example of something that should have been banned a long time ago, namely the addition of silver to consumer goods for antibacterial purposes. In pure Swedish, this means adding silver to sports socks, for example, so that people who sweat should not smell bad. It is completely unnecessary, and when the silver is drained in the first wash, it becomes dangerous. It becomes dangerous for the environment when we spread a heavy metal completely unnecessarily, and it becomes dangerous for humans because silver is also used to sterilize medical equipment. If we spread silver solution in the drain, we risk increasing resistance and people dying because others don't want to smell bad at the gym. We can't have that. Madam President, I would like With that example, I would like to thank myself. Since our requests for exercise are dealt with under a simplified exercise treatment, I have no claim, but I refer to our particular opinion. We in the Center Party will continue to promote the proposals in our motions.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-508	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by drawing attention to the fact that this is an exercise report with simplified treatment. That is why we in the Liberals only have one specific opinion. Madam President, I would like Toys for children and other products aimed at children are an issue that involves many people in the committee. I note the study carried out in 2018 which showed that 15% to 20% of toys and children's articles contained some form of non-authorised chemical. There is something very worrying. It not least worries those who are going out to buy those gifts for a birthday or Christmas present, or who shop over the internet, and see all these amazing things that are out there. One can feel a great uncertainty as a consumer: What do I give in the form of this gift– what does the product contain? It is sometimes incredibly difficult, as a consumer, to know what they are dealing with, including products from third countries. It is clear that children and young people should be specifically protected from dangerous chemicals. This is an issue for which we in the Liberals have been engaged for many years and which deals specifically with the impact of chemicals on not least the young people in our society. We therefore believe that it is important to continue to work towards phasing out dangerous chemicals. It is important to continue developing EU chemicals legislation REACH, and we believe that it is important to ensure that chemicals used are safe and that industry has clear and predictable rules of play. It is about being able to remove dangerous chemicals from the market. We look with great concern at and want to phase out environmentally harmful pesticides and endocrine disruptors. As mentioned above, particular attention should be paid to the sensitivity of children and young people. With the presence of chemicals that can have a harmful effect on health, a consumer perspective is important – that there is increased transparency about chemical content in goods and materials throughout the supply chain, including imported goods. We welcome economic instruments to remove dangerous chemicals in various products. It is very important that chemicals in consumer products, such as toys, clothing and much more, are phased out. Better control is needed, not least with regard to products aimed at children and young people. Madam President, I would like Changes in legislation may be necessary to reflect scientific developments related to the combination effects of chemicals. The combined effects have also been touched on by other speakers in this debate, and it is important that we ensure that the tools we have are sufficient. As far as persistent micro-locations, which have also been mentioned by many, are concerned, this is a major and serious environmental problem. Further action is needed here. It is also important to prevent deliberately added microplastics in chemical products. PFAS is a major issue – perfluorinated and polyfluorinated substances are the collective name of a large group of substances. They exist because they are perceived to play a role, but the consequences of them are something to which we must draw attention. The unique water, dirt and fat repellent properties as well as the extreme resistance to degradation both chemically and biologically naturally contribute to their usability. Impregnation agents, detergents, product coating agents – such as food packaging and textiles – are some examples of major uses of PFAS. Fire-extinguishing foams have also been mentioned in the debate. According to the Institute of Environmental Medicine at Karolinska Institutet, people are mainly exposed to PFAS via food, either directly via the food or indirectly via food packaging. Knowledge from animal experiments on the harmful health effects of exposure suggests that there may be health effects on the liver, fat metabolism, thyroid hormones and the immune system. Since June 2008, the use of PFOS in the EU and substances that can be broken down to PFOS in chemical products and articles is prohibited, with some exceptions. It will also be prohibited to manufacture or release PFOA as such within the EU on 4 July 2020. The same applies to their production as a constituent of another substance or of a mixture. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the budget proposal for 2020 clearly stated that Sweden actively worked for and contributed to an EU-wide approach to PFAS in 2018. This is a major challenge. It is about being able to consume safe foods that do not in themselves contain any harmful substances. However, it is also the case that the packaging in which the food is stored does not contain dangerous substances which can be transferred to the food in such quantities as to endanger human health. Here we, the Liberals, will follow developments very closely. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Chemicals Agency and the Swedish Consumer Agency work in various ways to improve access to consumer-friendly information about chemicals. We welcome this. This includes a collaborative project where a mobile application with information on dangerous chemicals in goods is developing, which can increase consumers' awareness and knowledge of chemicals in goods. The fact that consumers have good information about the content of products is very important. We should be able to make active choices and opt out of what we think is not good. Of course, authorities and politics also have an important role to play in ensuring that we have as safe products as possible, but we should be able to find out for ourselves what products contain. It is always important to have knowledgeable and committed consumers, including in this context. This is important in order to achieve a nontoxic cycle. There is a national perspective and a European perspective here, but of course also, with the trade going on globally, a major challenge in global society to ensure that we consumers wherever we are or where we shop our goods should feel that we can contribute to a non-toxic society without dangerous chemicals.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-521	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. People, animals and plants are exposed to various chemical substances that spread when goods and materials are manufactured, used and turned into waste. In order to protect human health and biological life, the spread of dangerous substances needs to be prevented and reduced. The environmental quality objective Non-toxic environment must be achieved. Several areas are particularly prioritised in the field of chemicals. This concerns the risk management of nanomaterials and microplastics, which several have mentioned today. This concerns the mapping and clean-up of contaminated sites. This applies, of course, to measures to reduce the release of drug residues into water. This also applies to measures to prevent and reduce pollution of PFAS in the environment and in drinking water. I want to focus in particular on the PFAS. The high-fluorinated PFAS substances can seriously affect human health at higher concentrations. The film Dark W aters premiered in Sweden in March this year. It is based on a real story about an environmental scandal with PFAS in West Virginia, USA, but PFAS is also a problem in Sweden. Fire foam containing PFAS has been used at airports and fire drill sites. As a result, we have major problems with contaminated soil and contaminated water in various places around Sweden. PFAS is also available in makeup, which is perhaps a little less known. According to a report from the Nature Conservation Association, the problem of PFAS in makeup has been underestimated. The emissions from cosmetics can be 850 times higher than expected. The government is doing a solid job to reduce the risks associated with PFAS. As early as 2016, the Swedish Chemicals Agency presented a comprehensive strategy to reduce the use of PFAS, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has carried out a screening of PFAS in Sweden. This work continues. SGI has developed guidelines and guidance for PFAS in water and environment, so that we know at what levels we should react. The Government is now also preparing the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate's proposal for national restrictions on fire foam with PFAS. As we have heard earlier today, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Fortifications Agency have been tasked with repairing and financing the clean-up of land contaminated by PFAS. In some places a judicial review of the Swedish Armed Forces' responsibilities is ongoing. On behalf of the Green Party, we do not want to anticipate this test, but we would like to point out that it is very important that the operators who have pollutants ensure that this is done with the best available technology as soon as possible. The government is also acting strongly in the EU. Together with six Member States, we have produced a proposal for an action plan at European level which has been sent to the Commission. At the Environmental Council in December, Isabella Lövin announced to Sweden, together with three Member States, that we will develop a restriction for the entire PFAS group in REACH. It is important that the PFAS substances are banned in groups, because the authorities do not have time to examine the substances individually. Madam President, I would like It is necessary to put in place measures to prevent pollution and harmful effects with a well-functioning system allowing informed decisions on chemicals. Three areas need to be particularly focused. Any use of the most dangerous chemicals – particularly dangerous substances – must stop. Goods and materials must be non-toxic from the outset in order for a circular economy with the least possible impact on human health and the environment to become a reality. We have to detoxify the cycles. The overall amount of hazardous substances to which humans and ecosystems are exposed needs to be reduced. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-534	Madam President, I would like It is not without feeling a little strange to stand here and debate in these gloomy times when the coronapndemy has turned the whole world upside down. It feels strange to stand here when people are fighting for their lives in intensive care departments and risk groups are not allowed to meet their loved ones. It feels strange to stand here in a world with closed borders, exceptional conditions and several restaurant owners and other entrepreneurs who see their life's work lost. While we are debating in this House, health professionals are fighting in the front line to save lives. They work with long shifts, in warm protective clothing and even warmer face masks. They take great risks to help those who suffer the most. These professions deserve our – and society as a whole – unreserved support and support. People show their appreciation by sending lunch boxes, and employers provide free parking. As the legislation is drafted now, these must express gratitude and help to those who work hard must be taxed. We Moderates in the Tax Committee have a committee initiative on exemptions from preferential taxation for staff who fight against Corona. It is positive that the government has taken on board the message and intends temporarily to abolish preferential taxation in the area of free parking, but we want to go further. It is obviously wrong that the assistant nurse should have to estimate for the parking lot that the employer offers after a twelve-hour working session. But she should not appreciate the lunch sandwich, given by a restaurant or grateful patients. It is a question of decency and common sense, but also of maintaining the legitimacy of the tax system. I think there are many of us who remember the severe fires in Västmanland, where many volunteer firemen from all parts of the country contributed to the extinguishing work and who, according to the Swedish Tax Agency's regulations, would be taxed for food, accommodation and travel to and from the fire-torn areas. In the end, volunteers were not affected financially, but the administrative difficulties that arose were not reasonable for a group that made a very important contribution to society. We have to be careful of our heroes. We Moderates want to review the possibility of obtaining exemption from the Swedish Tax Agency's rules on preferential taxation for crisis interventions with a view to facilitating engagement and recruitment in such situations. Madam President, I would like It feels heavy to stand here and talk about income taxes when there are so many whose income has disappeared from one day to another. But even in this difficult time, we must be prepared to look forward, and one day after the Corona crisis. Then we must be well prepared to restart society. The short-term efforts to save the economy have been good and necessary, but the question is whether they have been sufficient. The focus must now shift to structural reforms in the labour market. Strengthening the work line is undoubtedly the single most important question if we look forward. This was evident from the previous Minister for Finance Anders Borg's handling of the financial crisis, which Sweden came out of as one of the least affected countries in Europe. Madam President, I would like I'm a social worker by profession. I can recall many, many families for whom it did not pay to move from subsidies to work. To this day, a family with children often loses disposable income if one of the parents gets a job. That is absolutely not the case. There is a need to strengthen the incentive to provide support. The crisis is initially leading to high unemployment. However, when society restarts and we gradually emerge from the crisis, the workforce will once again be needed in viable companies – the export industry that returns to high-speed shipyards, hotels and restaurants that live up again and where visitors flow – and not least in order to cope with the common welfare: health care and care for the elderly. Therefore, all those who are able to work must do their part, also in order to boost their self-confidence. A job doesn't just give money. It gives cohesion, co-workers and the feeling that one is needed and contributes to the common. You also become a role model for your children. There are too many children who do not have a single adult in their vicinity who have or have even had a job in Sweden. A tax cut for those who earn the least would allow people to put aside a buffer, money that can be used for unforeseen expenses. There are many people whose income has slowed down overnight because of the Corona crisis and who are now concerned that the savings will not last more than a few weeks. It is most distressing that people who work full time and live sparingly without any debauchery have no room to put aside a few hundred cents a month. It creates a vulnerable society with vulnerable people, something that we are now unfortunately experiencing the consequences of. The solution, then, is not to make social security systems and other forms of support and contributions to individuals more generous once again. It only risks exacerbating the problems in the long term, increasing exclusion and making people even more vulnerable. Instead, the solution is that people themselves can keep a little more of the money they earn, especially those with small incomes. It provides both a better economy and stronger individuals with a better self-esteem. Therefore, in order for work and effort to always pay off, the Moderates want to reduce taxes on labour by introducing a new job tax deduction with a boost for low incomes, which means reduced taxes for everyone who works but especially for those who take the step from exclusion to employment. Madam President, I would like We are in favour of all our reservations, but I am only in favour of reservation 15.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-551	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are a social conservative party and believe that one of several important functions that the state has is to maintain the welfare society. A welfare state is, of course, something that involves costs, and income tax is precisely one of the largest revenue sources in the state and perhaps also the tax that is the most visible to citizens. Therefore, it is important for the so-called social contract that income tax is perceived as fair, not only in terms of tax capacity, but also in terms of allowing those who invest and work hard to benefit from the returns from their work and efforts. Madam President, I would like At the time that we are living in right now, taxes or tax reforms may not seem particularly high-priority, but there will be some time after this pandemic. Then it is important that our tax system is strong, even in an international comparison. We all want new and growing companies, which will probably be crucial for securing and safeguarding our well-being in the future. In order to make it easier for individuals not only to invest in shares or funds on the stock exchange, we want to review taxes in order to increase the opportunities and incentives to invest in smaller companies. We also look forward to start-ups and small expanding companies being able to offer their employees to invest in the company and therefore want to facilitate employee options. Attracting investment and venture capital, not only from those traditionally called venture capitalists, but also from individuals and hard-working entrepreneurs, will be a decisive factor in the reconstruction of the Swedish economy. We strive for broad popular ownership of Swedish business to a greater extent than is the case today. When it comes to the elderly in society, who often have a long working life behind them and who have paid a lot of taxes over the years, we think that the tax gap that still exists between income from employment and pension should be completely levelled out. Pension can be considered as part of deferred salary. We can also think of a system whereby, for those who have reached retirement age, taxes on earned income are even reduced for those who choose to continue working. This will stimulate voluntary work beyond the current retirement age rather than raising the retirement age. One industry that may not immediately have seen any major effects of the coronapandemine is the construction industry. One reason for this is that you work long-term with projects that take time. But there may be cause for concern when the slowdown in economic activity takes place there as well. In order to mitigate the impact of the slowdown in the construction sector we can expect, it could be an idea to develop the so-called ROT deduction. When the ROT deduction was introduced, it was not only to make black wages go white, but it would also serve as an injection into the then crisising construction sector. We would like to put in place a system in which funds are set aside to help preserve and develop cultural history buildings and building environments in order to preserve them to posterity and also to make them visible and accessible, and to disseminate knowledge of our roots and history. A special ROT deduction for important cultural history buildings and settlements that are outside the usual deduction is considered desirable. Madam President, I would like A particularly important issue in these times of crisis is the extent to which health professionals should be taxed for certain benefits paid by the employer. At the moment, there is a temporary tax exemption for health care workers who receive certain benefits from their employer who are normally taxed. It may be that the employer offers free parking or free travel to and from work with taxis. At the moment, we know that public transport has an infectious effect and that there is therefore reason for these exemptions from preferential taxation for these highly socially critical professions, which, moreover, are at risk of being infected with their duties. In addition to a temporary exemption from preferential taxation for a particular occupational category, there are other benefits considered exempt from taxation. Among other things, it is the so-called educational meals in care, i.e. meals that you consume together with your users. In addition to the care which is currently considered to be exempt from the tax, we believe that people in somatic care should also be exempt from the benefit tax in the case of meals taken together with the patients they care for. We know that meals together strengthen the well-being and health of all. Madam President, I would like We are, of course, in favour of all the Swedish democratic positions, but in order to gain time at voting time, I only call for reservation 7 in the report.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-563	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that it may feel like that to stand here today and discuss income taxes in view of the situation in the world. But to those who listen, I want to say: Hang in there! We do that by thinking about what we need after the crisis. We need adequate, concrete tools for Sweden to start again. That is why we need to have a debate like this today on income taxes. Madam President, I would like In the general debate on taxation, the focus has largely been on taxation as an effective economic instrument. Of course, it's the right thing to do. However, we must not forget that, at the same time, taxes should promote a legitimate and fair tax system. Confidence in our tax system is fundamental not only to legitimacy but, by extension, also to the welfare state. Sweden's high tax burden requires the prudent use of each krona. Madam President, I would like The job tax deductions introduced have had the character of economic instruments – strengthening incentives for work – but they have also left more money in the wallet, both for the individual and for municipalities. The State budget for 2020 introduced a reduced tax rate for those living in parts of Sweden's rural areas. In fact, it is a historic step in principle in smoothing out the unfair difference in municipal taxes that exists between rural and metropolitan municipalities. Rural residents often pay higher municipal taxes than urban residents but often have less access to services. At the same time, they have to pay out of their own pocket so that the road or broadband community can arrange for them to receive a decent service, which for others is financed through the tax bill. The Center Party wants to continue the investigation of a rural deduction that allows for the deduction of membership fees for such associations, for example. At the same time, we want to review the possibility of further lowering the municipal tax rate in order to equalise the difference between rural and larger municipalities. Madam President, I would like When comparing different parts of Sweden and the extent to which taxes and charges are paid to travel by car, it is clear that the differences are large. In rural areas, a much higher proportion of the car's socio-economic costs is paid than in urban areas. We must equalise differences as part of a shift in taxation in the transport sector. It must be possible for people to live, live and operate throughout the country in parallel with the necessary transition to sustainable transport. If this is to succeed, a broad review of taxes in this area is needed. The starting point should be that the tax system should take into account both climate benefits and the geographical conditions prevailing in Sweden. As the travel allowance is constructed today, it hits hard on the people who live in rural areas and who have no choice but to drive to and from work. If you live in a city or in a larger town, there is usually public transport, which makes it easier to opt out of the car if or when the deductions are reduced. This is good for big cities, because it will reduce car traffic and improve the environment. But if you are in areas where there is no public transport, it will be costly. In the forest plains and other parts of Sweden, the distances are enormous. Reducing tax deductions for car travel contributes to additional costs for rural residents, and this increases the gaps. Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants tax policy to be used as a growth-generating tool. It is important to take into account in a forthcoming tax reform. Using tax policy as a growth tool for the whole country can be made possible by regionalising more parts of the state property tax in order to strengthen the regional level of decision-making and the ability of the regions to pursue growth-enhancing policies on the basis of their own conditions. The Center Party wants to explore how a number of tax bases can be regionalised so that regions retain a larger share of the values created by them. A first step is to regionalise the property tax on water and wind turbines. It's a bigger question than what it sounds like – an immensely large educational question. I can imagine that it is a bit problematic to live in, for example, a small town in the middle of Northern Europe and see the rushing water stop for power extraction while at the same time seeing that the school in the village is closed down. It's hard to explain. Madam President, I would like Right now, the future – yes, even the present – is something that is very uncertain in our world. But at the same time as we are working to reduce the spread of infection and to give the companies affected the opportunity to overcome the crisis, the number of hours worked must increase in order for Sweden to get back on its feet again and we should be able to afford to maintain and develop our welfare in the long term. The Center Party therefore wants to see a thorough tax reform aimed at creating more jobs and growth and at the same time increasing the cost of environmentally hazardous activities. Taxes must be designed so that people dare to take risks and start businesses, not least post-corona. Taxes must be predictable, legally secure and long-term. The threshold for small-scale entrepreneurship needs to be reduced through regulatory simplification and lower taxes. The current crisis has highlighted aspects of the tax system that the Center Party and many of us have long pointed out. For smaller companies, complex and time-consuming administration and rules are at risk of becoming a heavy burden, as companies often have to do as much with less resources. Small businesses do not have large tax and administrative departments to resort to. Smaller companies are affected disproportionately. Unfortunately, there are many examples where companies are affected by tax legislation or its interpretation. One of these examples is preferential taxation. All I have to do is mention four-wheelers to get a lot of people with me to shake my head. If the right of establishment itself, the holding, is subject to preferential taxation, it is not directly clear and legally certain as the system is today. We must change this, and I would like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of reservation 26. Madam President, I would like Many issues have long been in need of reform. One issue that has been particularly in need of new legislation in recent years is the remuneration of board members. To no longer be able to include income from board work as a business activity in a company makes it difficult both for the individual and for those companies that want to strengthen the board with a specific competence. We must continue to investigate and review this so that it becomes a better system. Madam President, I would like Finally, I note that there are many reservations in the report, which is a clear signal to me. We need reform. There is much to do, not least in terms of regulatory simplification. As a result of the crisis we are in, many rules and regulations have been rapidly changed to facilitate business. This is where we should all put on the simplification goggles and really take the chance: don't re-introduce unnecessary rules! A tax reform will ensure entrepreneurship, jobs and growth across the country while managing climate change.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-580	Madam President, I would like Every year, Sweden becomes more and more unequal. The value of many's work ends up in a few pockets while welfare goes on its knees. Wealth and capital are concentrated in those who have the most and leave a lot of people behind. In addition, decades of cuts in welfare and the dismantling of security systems have weakened our ability to face a crisis. Swedish healthcare was already overloaded before the Corona crisis and is overloaded today. However, in the debate we have been constantly told that the state's resources are limited, which is justified by clichés that are right in the mouth after the lunch bag, or are adapting the suit and so on. The health professionals and welfare workers who have constantly faced cutbacks and savings, often hidden behind words such as: Fewer people are supposed to do the same job as if they were machines. But welfare workers are not machines. Working with demands to be ever more effective takes its price out in the form of worn-out bodies and increased stress. It is about welfare workers who start and end their days with painkillers. They are the ones who pay the price for all the government's tax cuts for the rich. The abolition of the military tax cost about 6 billion. That is equivalent to 15 000 colleagues for all the nurses in the country. Instead, however, we had an increased class society where underpaid women wear themselves out in welfare while high-paid and well-off men get their tax cuts. We've been trying this system for decades. We have tried reduced taxes and reduced health insurance. We have tried profit hunting in welfare and privatisation. The only thing we can say after decades is that we have reduced welfare, areas left behind and increased class divisions. That is why we will also have to look at how the burden of the crisis is to be shared and paid for. Large companies and capital owners, those who have been the main beneficiaries of the various aid packages, must be more involved in paying for welfare. It is provocative enough that there are companies seeking state aid and, at the same time, want to proceed with dividends to their owners. If we have owners who have put annual billion-dollar dividends in systems but leave the companies relatively poor, the owners can actually themselves step in with capital. It should not be necessary for ordinary taxpayers to do so. We should not have a system where we privatise the profits and socialise the losses. As capital grows faster than income, so does inequality in society. In recent decades, few groups in Sweden have been as big winners as the owners of the big companies. Their income has increased several times faster than that of the rest of the population. They have also benefited particularly from the fiscal policy pursued, not least because of the abolition or reduction of taxes on wealth, inheritance, gifts, real estate and capital income, and now also because of the abolition of military tax. All in all, it has contributed to increased class divisions and that the rich have been able to pull away even more. But it has also left us less equipped when the crisis comes, not least because of the crisis in welfare, privatisations that have left us with welfare companies that have understaffed as business models and an elderly care that the bourgeoisie claims will be better if it is put out to the lowest bidder. Madam President, I would like A radical shift in tax policy is needed. Capital owners must be more involved in paying for welfare. We propose increased taxes on high incomes and reduced taxes on low and middle earners. The tax on large dividends and capital income should also be increased in order to strengthen our welfare and security systems. Through these we are also redistributing solidarity between the working and the unemployed, between the healthy and the sick and, not least, between those who live in abundance and those who live on the margins. It is clear that welfare needs more resources and fewer job tax deductions. Progressive and just changes are needed that improve our common welfare and improve the lives of all the people who need to partake of it. Because in a rich country like Sweden we can't, and should we never, accept underfunded welfare where nurses and nannys don't have enough colleagues or reasonable work schedules while a few earn billions. We must reduce economic disparities and use the economy to redistribute resources. This means not only more fair and well-functioning societies, but also a shift of power away from a few capital owners. In these times when we are being asked to work from home, we know exactly which target groups cannot because they are working hard to make welfare and society work. When the crisis is over, remember who did the job! Then it is time for justice and distribution policy. Then it is time to evaluate workers according to their efforts and to allow care to be based on needs and not wallets. Then applause is not enough, especially from those who for decades have put their welfare on food for the benefit of the rich. It is not enough to stop calling socially important functions for simple jobs, but it is time for welfare workers to get the status they deserve. It is time for health professionals to have better working conditions, reasonable schedules and working hours that can be combined with family life and leisure time. In fact, rich capital owners can do that. I request the approval of reservation 4.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-592	Madam President, I would like When your salary comes into your account, there's a lot to be done. The housing, telephone bill, electricity bill and much more will be paid. Then the money will be enough for food and hopefully also pleasures and holidays. There's a lot of spending. But the biggest expense we have is often forgotten. That is what we are debating here today, namely income tax. Most of us probably know how much we pay for our home every month, and most of us have some idea of what the phone costs and how much electricity the bill usually gets. But there are studies that show that many of us do not know how much our greatest expense, the tax, actually is. One who earns 30 000 kroner receives an average of 23 000 kroner in the account each month. But for the employer, the costs are significantly higher than SEK 30 000. The employer who has to pay social security contributions and taxes has a cost of over SEK 39 000 each month. Of these, 23 000 are credited to the employee's account. More than 16 000 kroner disappears in taxes and charges in between, and many do not even know about it. The Christian Democrats believe that the tax burden must be made visible. Public employers must lead the way by more clearly reporting all taxes and contributions on the wage statement. It is only right to the citizens, all those who are the real owners of the money. We need to highlight and inform about how our social system works and what foundations it rests on. Madam President, I would like Taxation is a very effective instrument. Simply put, what we want less tax is more tax and what we want more tax is less tax. That was one reason why the job tax deductions were introduced. We know that work creates prosperity and prosperity. We want more of that, and that is why taxes on labour were reduced. For this reason, a further reduction in taxes is needed for all those who work or have worked. We in the Christian Democrats took part in our budget motion last autumn. There are groups that are particularly important to bring into or retain in the labour market. One such group is the elderly. Getting more older people to stay at work for some or a few years is crucial for our workplaces to continue to be populated by competent staff. When it comes to the public sector alone, SKR, Swedish Municipalities and Regions, says that there is a need for a lot of new staff in all different welfare activities. To maintain only the current staff density, more than half a million new employees will be required by 2026. We cannot solve this by filling up with new young employees, not least because it would require virtually everyone who starts working to do so in the welfare field. The elderly are absolutely essential if we are to have a chance even to maintain the staffing density we have today. It is therefore important to make it more attractive for older people to remain in the labour market. In order to get more older people to stay a little longer on the labour market, we Christian Democrats are proposing a double tax deduction for people aged 69 or over. Through this, older people can be encouraged to work extra, as it pays considerably more, or stay but go down in working hours while maintaining disposable income. Madam President, I would like As I said, taxation is a very effective instrument, and what we want more of should be taxed less. What the Christian Democrats want more of is a strong, viable and independent civil society. That is why we have also worked for and introduced a gift tax deduction. In practice, this means a tax relief for those who give gifts to social purposes and research. The gift tax deduction strengthens organizations such as Stadsmissionen, Rescuemission, Heart-Lungfonden and Cancerfonden. We took it very seriously that the gift tax rebate imposed by the Alliance Government was removed during the last parliamentary term by the Social Democrats and the Green Party. That is why we prioritised it in the work on the Christian Democratic and Moderate Budget Reserve that was adopted here in the Riksdag in December 2018. We are delighted that the gift tax credit is back, but now it is time to start developing it. The ceiling must be raised, so that more can give greater gifts. Of course, the ongoing Corona crisis primarily affects those who become ill, relatives, health professionals, businesses and employees. But it also affects our non-profit organisations and those that the organisations are working to support. This is due, among other things, to the fact that it has become more difficult to carry out fundraising and create events that generate money for the activities. In order to strengthen the non-profit organisations in the crisis, the Christian Democrats have proposed that the highest tax reduction be raised substantially, to SEK 25 000 per person. This would mean that a private person during this year could donate up to $100,000 to non-profit help activities with 25 percent tax reduction. The Christian Democrats also want to include more types of organisations in the system. Organisations that work with, for example, the environment and climate, animal welfare, health and outlook on life should be included, just as social purposes and research do today. In addition, the lower limit for each individual gift should be lowered. If possible, the administration of the organisations concerned should also be further simplified. Madam President, I would like The gift tax credit is no wonder. Almost all of Europe's countries have some kind of tax reduction or deduction for gifts. The most interesting role model for us is probably our neighbour Norway. It introduced the deduction in 1999. At first it was just like here quite modest and included only a few types of organizations. But it came to evolve. Today, more than 600 organisations are covered in Norway. These are organisations that work with care, human rights, culture, the environment, nature and animal welfare. In 1999, Christian Democrat Kjell Magne Bondevik was Prime Minister of Norway. Since then, Norway has had both left- and right-wing governments, with prime ministers such as Jens Stoltenberg and Solberg Erna. There have been different governments with different policies in many areas, but all have developed the gift tax credit. The Norwegian example should be an example for us in the Swedish Parliament, Madam President. Finally, we in the Christian Democrats naturally support all our reservations, but in order to save time at voting time, I only ask for the approval of reservation No 5.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-608	Madam President, I would like It's nice to be in the speaker's chair today. In Corona times, several of us Members get to jump in here and there. But this is, for once, a debate in my area here in Parliament, tax policy. It's fun. Madam President, I would like This tax policy thing is a little hard for us liberals. Some politician said it's sexy to pay taxes. I disagree. It's kind of uncomfortable. But as a liberal, one must probably land in that it is a necessary evil. In any case, this is necessary in order to maintain the State's tasks in the social contract. It is about basic welfare and safety nets that are needed for people to be caught if they get hurt. It is about the fundamental tasks of the state, such as the police and the judiciary. It is legitimate to levy taxes if we, both the state and the citizens, who pay the tax, maintain the contract. Madam President, I would like What I feel a little uncomfortable is the arrogance that sometimes exists in some places when it comes to tax money and how you look at what tax money is, where it comes from and what you can do with it. It is enough to open a newspaper or look at Facebook and maybe Twitter to see a series of rather horribly good examples of waste of tax money. These may be short-term projects that are not about maintaining the core business of the state or the core of welfare. This could be something that so-called policy makers call press release money. So it is when politicians cut off money, not enough to make a real difference but enough to give a clip in the paper to build a political career. It's uncomfortable. Madam President, I would like This could be a municipal, regional or rich politician who pushes through a reform or ensures that a house is built or that something else comes into place. But it is really more about putting yourself on the map or building a monument to your political deed than about safeguarding the core of welfare or the most fundamental tasks of the state. It's arrogant. Then you do not see what tax money is for real. Tax money is the blood, sweat and tears of people who have toiled, worked and fought to get their own money and own money. It is people who have invested intellectual capital, their thoughts and years of study. You may have invested by using your body in a profession where you may have worn your back through heavy lifting or exposed yourself to dangers. You may have invested by being an entrepreneur and taking risks and perhaps risking all your money. You have invested yourself, your efforts and your intellectual capital to get something back. Very often it is an income that you want to be able to do things in your life. We humans not only want to survive but also want to live. When these people have done heavy lifting, toiling, investing, taking great risks of their own, sitting years at the university or whatever it may be, the state comes in and takes a pretty large part of the cake. Then we call it taxation. Madam President, I would like I find it arrogant not to see that every penny of tax that we are debating today is someone's blood, sweat and tears and someone's effort, as the person has done regardless of his career. It is clear that we are now moving faster than we thought into a recession. This, in turn, means that we will have to implement several of the major structural reforms needed to get Sweden out of the recession more quickly than we thought. It's a little strange. In the debate, it may sound like the Corona situation and the rapid economic crash that we can see before us would mean that we cannot talk about structural reforms. It's just the opposite. Moving quickly into a recession means that we need to get the structural reforms in place more quickly to emerge from the recession. Madam President, I would like For example, Sweden's tax burden is far too high. It is far too expensive to be active in Sweden. We have a tax burden far above the OECD average. We need to move towards this cut because Sweden needs to become competitive in a globalised economy and when we move towards a recession. We need to make sure people want to come here and work because you make money from it. It is about people who have skills that we in Sweden lack. We need competitiveness and lower taxes for more entrepreneurs and more companies to dare to invest, hire people and create more jobs so that more people can afford not only to survive but also to live. Structural reforms are needed to move our tax burden towards the OECD average. Madam President, I would like I see that I am going to suspend my registered speaking time, but since it is not myself who has signed up for the list of speakers, I will dare to do so. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, we will need to have reduced taxes on people with low incomes. It is quite serious that in Sweden it is so tough to make a class trip for your own machine. It is because of our high taxes, which cement the differences that exist between us. If you have a low income, it is more difficult to save money for a start-up capital, if you have a good idea and want to make an entrepreneurial journey. It's harder to raise money for a bet to buy an apartment. It is more difficult if you have low incomes from the beginning – you often come from a family that also has low incomes – to get someone to help you with the investments you need to get on with your business idea, buy a home or something like that. The high taxes that the entire left-wing parties have been pushing through in Sweden for many years ironically, fewer people can make class trips, as they cannot by their own machine lift themselves out of the situation they find themselves in. Madam President, I would like I would like to make one more point in this debate. I think we should stop throwing shit at people who make investments. Earlier in the debate, it has been said that we should not only make tax cuts that are good for venture capitalists. To that I want to say: No, we are going to lower taxes for all people who work, invest, take risks and ensure that the economy in the country goes around. Venture capitalists are an important part of the Swedish economy. They are the ones who make sure that the entrepreneur who originally comes from a socio-economic vulnerability, who has started to get a roll on his corporate idea and who may have managed to save up to invest in his entrepreneurship, despite the high taxes and initially low income, can get really much air under his wing so that the idea can lift and become a big business that creates something dynamic, that creates growth and that creates jobs for the whole economy. This is not a group of people to yell at. These are people who are just like everyone else who is working to get the economy going around our country. It's a group we're going to celebrate. I also think that we should stop hitting the owners of the big companies, as has been done in the debate. Why? Well, most of the people who own big companies are ordinary people who work and pension savings. In addition, it should be remembered that those who are not ordinary pension savers and own large companies are people who, with their own toil, their own investments and their own hard work, have managed to build something. It is amazing that we have managed to get so many jobs and so much prosperity in our country, otherwise we would never have been able to afford a single crown to the welfare. Madam President, I would like We need to make major structural reforms and have a more reasonable level of taxation in this country. We must pay tribute to those who work and who create wealth and ensure that we have a well-being at all. It's actually in the economy that it happens. I would like to endorse our reservation No 9. ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: I note that the cover was over 50%. All Members are, of course, responsible for the time that is on the list of speakers. It is we, as Members, who ultimately bear this responsibility. )
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-627	Madam President, I would like Life is not fair. We're all born into different conditions. Where in the world we end up, what society or what family we grow up in gives us very different conditions in life already at the first breath. Then almost anything can happen: diseases, accidents, or the wrong place at the wrong time. A pandemic can make the whole world burn. Madam President, I would like In the current crisis, saving lives is the first priority. Nothing else can go ahead. At the same time, Parliament's work continues, and we now have a tax debate on motions written in September last year. While the political leadership is dealing with the crisis, society otherwise does not stand still. Despite hundreds of extra billions to both welfare and business, the forecast shows higher unemployment and decreased GDP this year. This will also affect the lives of many people. The injustice of life is usually not a law of nature, and it is mainly possible to do something about it. Through political will, preparedness can be improved and through more well-being and security we can have a stronger society. This has already been done for a long time in Sweden. The building up of common welfare has been crucial for citizens' increased freedom. It has made possible a well-developed education system with means of study that in principle gives everyone the opportunity to realise their dreams. It is not an economic impossibility for a young person in the suburbs, in a place of use or from a small village in the interior of Norrland to become a brain surgeon or stand in this chamber. Through the common welfare, everyone can receive care in sickness and old age. No one asks about your credit rating or insurance before you are taken to hospital with an ambulance. And when life takes a new turn, there's social security as security. However, there are still class differences and different conditions that mean that we need to continue building society in order to achieve equality. The welfare is taken by many for granted. But it is created by political decisions and is based on the fact that it can be financed by the tax resources that we collect on broad tax bases. That is why it is important, when we decide how to fund it, to also discuss which society we want. Tax policy has a number of guiding principles. It is about taxation being neutral and uniform, legitimate and fair, and it must have general and clear rules with broad tax bases and rates that are well balanced towards the objectives of economic policy. Taxation should also take place when it comes to income and have sustainable rules in relation to the EU. The income tax, together with VAT, is the two most important sources of income we have. Income tax therefore always needs to be protected against the various requirements for reductions and deductions that exist. We also have an unfortunate upswing in income taxation, which we must tackle through a tax reform. Madam President, I would like Are taxes in Sweden too high or too low? Instead, the question should be: Should we have high or low demands for common welfare? Is it better for each person to buy a higher welfare himself through insurance or through payment of high fees? No, we Social Democrats believe in general and tax-funded welfare. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has data on the tax ratio in Sweden, i.e. the proportion of taxes of gross domestic product. In 2019 it was 42.9 per cent and in 1976 it was 42.8 per cent. Since 1976, we have had a substantial expansion of public childcare, education, colleges and universities, and well-being in general. Of course, technological developments can increase so-called productivity. But that Sweden can go even further down the tax rate without any problems for welfare, I think, is an illusion. Tax cuts in Sweden have reached the end of the road. We cannot build a stronger society and emerge from crises with both readiness and hope for a sustainable future for future generations through tax cuts. There is no mathematical formula that can make that calculation go together. Many of the motions on which today's tax debate is based propose tax reductions. The committee therefore wisely rejects all motions seeking to reduce tax revenues and create a safer Sweden. Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia is primarily medically but also economically a great test for us. It is good that we in Parliament have agreed on the efforts made. There is certainly nothing wrong with the opposition making further proposals which, of course, should be tested along with what the government continues to produce. Nor is it a secret that we Social Democrats do not love block politics or an aggressive tone of voice in debates. Our critics sometimes say that this is based on our wanting power. Perhaps they should consider why so far the Social Democracy has almost always sought cooperation and more in case of need. Social democracy has always thought of the whole of Sweden. The result has been a society that we can be proud of. Malmö journalist Olle Svenning wrote an article about his good friend Per Olov Enquist at his death. Svenning wrote that Enquist was a "mild" social democrat in contrast to not least the 68-left. The former Social Democratic Member of Parliament Veronica Palm, who was actually former Vice-Chairman of the Tax Committee and is today a sharp Social Democratic debater, simultaneously writes in her contributions that she is kinder than many think. Those who are strong must also be kind, says Bamse, which Krösus Sork dislikes very much. In our society, Madam President, we are stronger together. Those who are strong can afford to be both solidarity and fair. I therefore propose rejecting all motions for motion.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-644	Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis kills lives too early and puts people in financial insecurity. The Corona crisis also prompts us to question old truths. It raises a political debate on how we can not just go back to the way things were before, but that we should take the opportunity to build something better. It comes after the Corona an opportunity to redo and do the right thing. Why do we tax work? Is it because we think work is bad? No, not really. All parties in this Parliament encourage work and run a strong line of work that is hardly called into question. But at the same time as Sweden has high taxes on labour, we have low taxes on capital. In Sweden, working hard doesn't make you rich. You're going to burn out so you can benefit those who own the companies. The best recipe for success to be rich is to stack capital. Madam President, I would like Sweden is the OECD country where the gaps are growing fastest. At the same time, we believe that we can fix this by screwing on a fundamentally bad and unfair system. We need a green and fair transition. I advocate basic income, and the Green Party would like to have the matter investigated. One way to ensure that all people have basic financial security, a way to really combat poverty, is negative income tax. If you earn less than a certain amount, you get money instead. If you earn over a certain amount, then you pay taxes as it is now. Working will always pay off. People want to spend their energy and time on meaningful jobs. Madam President, I would like I go back to the question of income tax. I think it is clear in this House that the income tax is intended to finance public expenditure by the state. In this, I can agree with my colleague, Joar Forsell, that we really need to give priority to this expenditure. Government expenditure includes, among other things, a wide range of rehabilitation projects. The JAS plan is bought for nearly SEK 37 billion. These are now standing on the hill and are not helping us a bit when society is in a real crisis. Perhaps this is the moment when we realise that a functioning civil defence system would be a good thing. Madam President, I would like An important victory for the Green Party in the January agreement was that we got a green tax change of 15 billion. By increasing the tax on environmental pollution and emissions, we can at the same time reduce the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship. We will then reschedule the tax system so that we will tax more on what we want to see less of. Madam President, I would like Those who are sceptical about the idea of green tax exchange tend to object to the question: What do you do when we do not release any more? Where, then, are the treasures to come from? In this respect, I would like to stress that we are now living in both a climate crisis and a species crisis that is so serious that we cannot just be content with net zero emissions. We have to start giving more than we take. That is why we must commit more greenhouse gases than are released. It is not enough for us to just stop releasing chemicals. We need to clear nature of toxins. In short, we must have a positive impact on our environment. Thus we can gradually adjust the reference point for where we levy taxes until we actually live in sync with the planet.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-653	Madam President, I would like In my speech in the previous debate, I mentioned the enormous hardships that the Corona crisis has brought to the people of Sweden and around the world. It is a crisis that has taken hundreds of thousands of lives and whose human costs cannot be understood. The economic costs are also frightening. Thousands of businesses are threatened with bankruptcy and millions of people with unemployment. But it is important not to get caught up in desperation and despair over the situation we see around us, but to look forward and start preparing for life after the Corona. It is a time when Sweden will be re-started and again become a country where people can socialize without restrictions, go to restaurants, participate in festivals and conferences, and travel both within Sweden and abroad. It is a country where new companies are set up, order books are filled and the export industry is at high speed. Our job as politicians is to create the best possible conditions for this new start and to remove the obstacles that stand in the way. Access to cheap and reliable electricity has been crucial to the success of Swedish industry. Entrepreneurs with electricity intensive industrial production who want the energy tax refund must apply to the Tax Agency. Companies with high consumption can apply for monthly reimbursement, while small businesses can only apply once a year. This means that small businesses are allowed to spend more money in terms of their turnover, which may threaten liquidity. We Moderates believe that even small companies should be able to apply for a monthly refund. It is a strange and unnecessary administrative burden for small and medium-sized enterprises to have to lie out with large sums of money and then ask back parts of what the company has paid in to the Swedish Tax Agency. This is a typical example of unnecessarily burdensome regulatory burdens that have no reasonable purpose. We also consider it problematic that the Swedish Tax Agency, through a new interpretation of the law, counteracts the intentions of the legislation. One example is the refund of the energy tax to server halls. It should be self-evident that the energy tax can be refunded to the companies operating the server halls, regardless of who has the equipment at their disposal. Madam President, I would like We must be determined and ensure that Swedish companies can assert themselves in an international context. Sweden is a small, export-dependent country. Our prosperity depends entirely on the demand for Swedish goods but also on the existence of efficient transport, which is often not only overlooked but directly countered by political decisions. Air travel is undoubtedly the mode of transport that has been most affected by the Corona crisis. Closed borders and travel restrictions have completely knocked away the legs of the industry. Several airlines face a direct threat of bankruptcy and survive only thanks to extensive support from each state, which often assumes its responsibility as owner. The aviation tax, introduced in 2018, has a clear negative impact on accessibility and competitiveness in Sweden. It is a tax which, like other taxes, aims to bring money to the treasury but which is otherwise a way of saying no to what most of us here stand for: modernity, mobility, transparency and development. It is simply a tax from a distance – a tax that weighs even more on an already very vulnerable industry. We Moderates want to combat emissions, not transport. Given how badly the airline industry has been hit by the Corona crisis, the abolition of air tax seems to be more urgent than ever, even as absolutely necessary for the future existence of Swedish air traffic. Madam President, I would like The last few months have given us a foretaste of what a world without growth would look like. It is possible that there are those who think that this would be a desirable state, but I actually find it difficult to believe. The importance of the car for development and growth cannot be stressed enough, not least in a country like Sweden with very large distances. Through decades, the car has enabled people to get to work efficiently and smoothly, whether it is a workplace near the home, a city a little further away or a remote rural area. This is something that obviously promotes employment and prosperity, as labour market regions have become considerably larger in this way and the ability to match labour needs with job seekers suitable for the tasks has been facilitated. Also for the transport of goods, car transport is of crucial importance in terms of both our domestic supply and distribution of products as well as the export industry's need to supply goods to its customers. One question we have to ask ourselves is what the reality would have been like in these days with the Corona virus without the car. The car is the mode of transport that the authorities are now recommending to minimise the spread of infection. In many cases, the car has also been the only means of travel available when other transports have been cancelled. The ability to keep society going even at a limited level would have been considerably more difficult, not to say impossible, without the car. Recently, oil prices have fallen due to the Corona crisis and the fall in demand. But it can quickly rise again. It is therefore devastating for jobs and growth to pursue an anti-car policy of penalising car travel and various forms of restrictions. In addition to a fiscal objective, excise duties also have an explicit behavioural objective. The fact that the fiscal purpose has become superior to the government has become increasingly clear over the years. When it comes to the behavioural purpose, when it comes to fuel tax, one can ask what it is the government wants to achieve. Is it that people should not get to work? Is it that goods are not to be delivered? Or is it that people should not be able to visit their loved ones? The tax increases on fuels, vehicles and aircraft that have been driven through in recent years are not a balanced environmental policy. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions is important, but this should be done in a sensible and sustainable way. For example, fuel taxes cannot be allowed to rise at the rate and to the current level. Over-indexation must be abolished, and there must also be an active reduction in the tax on fuel by SEK 1 per litre. Madam President, I would like We are in favour of all our reservations and specific opinions, but I am only in favour of reservation 1 in order to save time at voting time.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-671	Madam President, I would like In these coronatides we have seen an awakening in Sweden. Sweden has awakened to the realization that the country's emergency preparedness is under all criticism. Not only do we have a dismantled defence; we have also decommissioned our supplies of food, medicines, protective equipment and more. It has made us completely dependent on imports to function permanently without error. The current crisis has made it absolutely clear to everyone that this will not be the case. There was a temporary suspension of imports of, among other things, protective equipment. But if we get through the crisis without more suspensions, we have had a great deal of luck – this time. In the face of future crises, we cannot count on the same luck. Next time, there may be closed borders, whether there is a pandemic or an armed conflict in our neighbourhood. Then we can't rely on luck. We must ensure domestic production and stockpiling of vital goods. Never again this gambling with the security of the Swedish people! One of the most important functions of society is the ability to provide food for its own population. This is something that we have taken for obvious for many decades: There is always food in stores. In a crisis situation, however, it may actually end. Despite relatively good geographical conditions for both environmentally friendly and highly productive agriculture, the so-called self-sufficiency rate in Sweden has fallen below 50 per cent. This means that we produce less than half of the food we consume. This is the result of politicians having neglected farmers' conditions for decades. Streamlining and merging into larger production units is, to some extent, normal development, but the dramatic decline in production volumes is not. Sweden also needs to strengthen its overall defence, where increased self-sufficiency in food is an important component, due to a worse security policy situation. The Finnish Food Authority is currently responsible for national coordination in the area of food security crisis and preparedness planning in the post-primary production chain. However, it lacks responsibility for decision-making and implementation. No authority currently has overall responsibility for the entire food supply. That is why the division of responsibilities needs to be clarified, and the vulnerability of the food chain to crises needs to be investigated. The Swedish Parliament needs to adopt quantitative targets for Sweden's self-sufficiency level, where the importance of a functioning infrastructure and domestic production of agricultural inputs also need to be emphasised. In this work, Parliament should draw up the necessary definitions of self-sufficiency. The long-term objective should be to reach full or close to full self-sufficiency of the food that is possible to produce in Sweden. The current and former governments' anti-rural policies, continued increases in taxes on petrol and diesel, and all proposals to introduce a new tax on commercial fertilisers are negative. Swedish farmers compete in the same European market as their neighbours in Denmark. It is reasonable that the level of taxation for different inputs is the same. We cannot expect Swedish agriculture to survive and thus secure food supply only through free competition when it will at the same time pay higher excise duties than farmers in other countries. The tax on diesel for agriculture and forestry therefore needs to be reduced to at least the same level as in Denmark, about 7 øre per litre, so that Swedish farmers can compete on reasonably equal terms. This is a relatively cheap but important reform that we believe will lead to more Swedish farms being able to continue to operate and develop. Moreover, a reduction in agricultural diesel taxation is likely to be close to climate neutral in a wider perspective, as demand for climate-friendly renewable fuels in society at large and worldwide will far exceed supply in the coming years. This proposal, Madam President, is just one of many measures needed to strengthen Swedish food production, and we must take all the necessary measures. I would ask you to accept Amendment No 7.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-680	Madam President, I would like Taxes are really something that affects all of us. They affect all people, all municipalities and all businesses. Tax is somewhere the state's ultimate way of governing people's lives. This applies not least to excise duties, which is what we are discussing in connection with this report. It is a good thing that people's consumption and production can be controlled. That is, of course, the point of excise duties: an effective way of directing people to make different choices. But you also have to make sure that you're heading for something that's good or better. Otherwise, there's no point. An excise duty must be fair, and there must be alternatives. Of course, the best thing would be, as the Liberals say, not to have to control at all, but now we are stuck in the system we have. In the short term, we need to improve and, in the long term, we need to make a tax reform that is clear and predictable and that compensates for the environmentally and climate-friendly system we have today. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I think it is quite honorable to work in the Tax Committee. I am going to talk about some principles that I think are important for excise duties. It is effective to tax what we do not want in society, such as environmentally hazardous emissions. But in the second balance it is just as important to lower taxes on what we want more of, for example, work, to get Sweden on its feet. Any new tax and any change in a tax must be justified well, just as the design and not least the impact on individuals, businesses and society. We need to get better at this. It must be clear that the positive effects outweigh the negative ones. Madam President, I would like Excise duties are a broad area which, when digging deeper, has a great need for reform, which we all seem to agree on, ensuring that there are more than 100 claims we are discussing in the report. Most citizens think of alcohol taxes, tobacco taxes or possibly electricity taxes when they think about excise duties. Fewer think of the potential for governance in this area, for example in the environment and climate. Madam President, I would like Road traffic generates the largest share of emissions. There is no doubt that emissions must be reduced significantly. For those of us who see development and innovation as a key to the climate issue, it is gratifying that there is an enormous amount of positive happening in Sweden and in the world. Let's not forget that. Sustainable fuels are produced, such as various forms of biofuels. It is, of course, a key to achieving our objectives. Here the tax system must be designed to steer so that the right alternative is rewarded. According to the Center Party, the solution is not, for example, to tax distances, as with the road wear tax on which the previous government spent an incredible amount of resources. You cannot tax distances in a country like Sweden. You cannot punish people and businesses who live and work in the country. There are no rail tracks to replace road transport, and there is still no access to environmentally friendly fuel throughout the country. Madam President, I would like We have the Eurovignette system in Europe, where we should work to bring in environmental governance, differentiated charges and avoid yet another new tax system such as the road user tax. I would like to take this opportunity to support our Amendment No 12, which deals with this very issue. The issue of road wear and emissions from traffic is not just about CO2 emissions, which is what is taxed when you think. It's about a lot more. We mention a little about it in our reservation; the Christian Democrats well take it up further in their reservation. What is the environmental impact of the vehicle's driving throughout the traffic system? The model must take into account city and country, congestion, the time of day and the roads you drive. Madam President, I would like In the renewable power system, there are considerably more hours with large electricity surpluses than with large deficits. Systemically, this presents a major challenge. The Center Party wants to test business models and the use of electricity when it is cheap. As a consumer, you should have the opportunity to contribute to a system service that is positive for the electricity grid, for example by charging your electric car at times with large surpluses and thus getting paid for it. Madam President, I would like We also want to see more public transport so that we can reduce emissions throughout the country. Many people today take the car that would have taken the bus, commuter train or tram instead. We need to increase public transport in order to push back climate emissions and reduce congestion on our roads. The Center Party wants to further promote electric public transport, and to achieve this, the tax on electricity for public transport is of course an important piece of the puzzle. The same applies to the possibility of environmentally friendly boat commuting in cities such as Stockholm and Gothenburg, which would also be strengthened if the electricity tax became more functional. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a few words about one of Sweden's most important basic industries, which the previous speaker talked about a lot, namely agriculture and forestry. It is incredibly important not least in these times, as we are all reminded. Of course, agriculture and forestry should also contribute to a climate change change. It is very gratifying that the government has appointed a former LRF chairman as investigator of how to get a fossil-independent agriculture while maintaining competitiveness and ensuring that Swedish farmers are not in any way disadvantaged and have less competitive conditions than other producers in Europe. The Center Party has talked about a green premium, a bonus, to reset the fleet of vehicles and start using more climate-friendly machines and tools.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-698	Madam President, I would like There are many different excise duties in various areas, and anyone who reads through the report we are debating can probably get the impression that it is very sprawling. But in common with many of the excise duties that exist or are proposed in various sports is that in one way or another, and for one reason or another, they aim to steer our behaviour towards drinking less, smoking less, playing less, flying less or buying fewer new phones. In some cases, the objectives are legitimate and excise duty is a good tool for the purpose. In other cases, it is more doubtful whether the purpose is right, whether a tax is the right tool and whether the tax in question is properly designed. Madam President, I would like The so-called bonus – the Malus system for cars is debated. The system involves relatively low CO2 emissions vehicles giving a bonus at the time of purchase, while high carbon dioxide emissions vehicles receive a higher cost. Those who have followed the debate see that there is a need to make changes to this system. The various problems that have arisen must be corrected. One of these problems is that light trucks used by different professions and professional drivers automatically end up in the higher price ranges when compared to ordinary cars. We Christian Democrats believe that it goes without saying that light trucks should rather be compared to other light trucks and that it would encourage the use of more environmentally friendly lorries, especially in urban transport. Even motor homes used during a small part of the year now end up at a much too high price level when compared to ordinary cars. That too needs to be addressed. Another problem that needs to be solved is that electric cars and charging hybrids are exported to Norway. This is because, just as it was intended, it is advantageous to buy a new environmental car in Sweden. But a consequence of this has been that the secondary market in Sweden has developed worse. The bonus part of the bonus – the Malus system should therefore be changed so that the bonus is paid out gradually over a multi-year period. Madam President, I would like In 2018, non-profit associations paid approximately SEK 60 million in advertising tax. We Christian Democrats share the ambition with the other parties to abolish advertising tax altogether. We welcome the gradual abolition that has taken place over a number of years, but we believe that the abolition of advertising tax on non-profit associations should now be a priority. It is in society and in non-profit organisations that the basis for democracy is laid. Sometimes it sounds like association life is just a leisure activity, but it is much more important than that. In association, we learn to listen to others, to discuss and to compromise. We also know that community itself is positive for people. More and more people are paying attention to the major problems and costs that involuntary loneliness causes society. I have therefore highlighted in several debates in this House that civil society's preconditions are an issue that should be discussed in virtually all policy areas. This also applies to tax policy, and in the field of taxation there is much that can be done to make it easier for non-profit associations around Sweden. We Christian Democrats are convinced that the EUR 60 million that associations pay in advertising taxes each year would benefit people if associations were instead allowed to use them for their core business. This will strengthen the Community and interpersonal relations in society. Madam President, I would like In spring 2018, the Riksdag issued an announcement to the Government to evaluate the socio-economic consequences of the chemical tax. There are other actors who have made evaluations of the chemical tax. The Swedish Trade Federation has carried out an evaluation, which shows that tax revenues are significantly lower than expected, while the number of jobs has decreased by around 1 000 due to the tax. The total effect of the loss of sales due to the chemical tax can be added up to approximately SEK 3 billion, and private imports have increased to the same extent. In addition, administrative costs have increased by approximately SEK 300 million. Another aspect of the issue is that the chemical tax is very negative for those companies that currently purchase old electronics such as used mobile phones and computers. These companies are renovating the electronics and then reselling it. This extends the life span of these products. It was not intended that chemical tax should be paid for second-hand goods already subject to chemical tax, but in practice that is how it works. This needs to be changed, because otherwise we will turn our backs on an emerging business which is based entirely on recycling and the circular economy. Madam President, I would like I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats on this matter, but in order to save time at voting time, I only call for reservation 8.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-711	Madam President, I would like There is much talk in this debate about excise duties to govern people in different ways – governing what to do with their lives, how to live their lives and what to do with their hard-earned money. But, Madam President, in essence, people must be left to decide for themselves. You have to decide for yourself what you want to do with your body, your life and your money that you saved for or earned yourself. There is a tendency among us politicians – I think we can admit it, Madam President – to want to govern people in different ways, perhaps more than is legitimate and reasonable, because we who are politically active often have a very clear idea of what we want Sweden, Europe and the world to look like. We often have an idea of how we want people to be. We are often idealistic. We are driven by the fact that we want to change society, and it is quite easy to slip there and believe that excise duties can solve every problem and get rid of every little thing in society that bothers you. But that is not right, Madam President. It is not legitimate, and in the vast majority of cases it is not very effective either. However, there are some cases where excise duties are a pretty good method of dealing with problems. Here I think there is an important distinction to be made. There are excise duties on things that we may not like but that actually do no great harm to others than the one who does it himself and does not involve great costs to others than the one who does it himself. There are also excise duties on things that we absolutely do not like but which, above all, do harm to others or involve costs to others than the one who made that choice. Everyone in this country and in all other countries must be allowed to make their own choices, even bad ones. But everyone cannot make choices that harm others, and against that excise duties can actually be a means. Madam President, I would like For example, excise duty on spirits or cigarettes can be beneficial, for when using them you harm others or create costs for health care. Here in the country we have care that is paid jointly through the tax bill, and that means that we have a system in which, through our actions, you create costs for others. But, Madam President, it must be admitted that it is strange that, for example, the tax on snuff is so high. Several times and several studies have shown that the damage caused by snus is not at all matched by the money we collect from the tax on snus. So we are drawing much more money from the tax on snus than the damage. This must mean that what distinguishes between them is just political whims. We politicians think that this is something we should not be doing, so we have a little excise duty on it. I think this is illegitimate nonsense that we should not be doing. Madam President, I would like Another thing we can actually do is tax related to the climate. As a liberal, I belong to those who believe that goods, people and capital should be allowed to move freely across the borders of the earth. Unfortunately, I haven't got that vision through yet. In addition, unfortunately, one thing that really moves across borders is carbon dioxide. Emissions move across borders, and this means that it harms people in other parts of the world when I release here in Sweden. Then, Madam President, an excise duty can be reasonable to ensure, for example, that emissions are reduced. We in the Liberals have, of course, pushed through the January agreement that we should have a green tax exchange in place. I think that this is an example of a good way of applying excise duties: we are making sure that we reduce the tax on income while we have excise duties on things that are bad for the climate and in that way push for development, not because we ourselves have decided exactly what we want the future to look like, but because we think that as a human being you do not have the right to harm others with their emissions. This is an important dividing line in this debate. On the one hand, there are politicians who think that you should not harm others and, on the other hand, politicians who want opinions on how people should live their lives, what they should do and what they should be allowed to spend their money for. I belong to the first of the two hosts. Madam President, I would like I'll give you one more example. In other words, when we deal with excise duties in different ways, it is quite easily wrong. There is a recurring debate on raw tobacco. In Sweden raw tobacco is not subject to excise duty as other tobacco. One is a good example to illustrate how strange it is when you start tampering with excise duties here and there and how difficult it is to land right because there are exceptions here and there. Since we have a tax on cigarettes, it is clear that it may seem reasonable to have a tax on all tobacco products. Then it may seem reasonable to have a tax even on raw tobacco, just like on snuff or cigarettes. We already know that the tax on snus is too high in relation to the tax on cigarettes because the damage is much less. But if we also have a tax on raw tobacco, we have to ask ourselves: should we also have a tax on the seeds, or when we start to dry tobacco? Or should we have a tax on the seller of land used for raw tobacco? Madam President, I would like It is often very difficult to introduce, raise or change excise duties with great precision. Not only is it often wrong, but it is also far too complex to be done in a sensible way. But the area where it actually works is the climate. Madam President, I would like I would like to support our Amendment No 23, which concerns the introduction of a flight tax at European level. As emissions move across borders, politics and our laws, regulations and taxes sometimes need to move across borders.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-724	Madam President, I would like Excise duty is an additional indirect consumption tax levied on specific goods and services. Excise duties on harmful products such as alcohol and tobacco are of old date. The aim of excise duties is both to steer consumption in a certain direction and to increase revenue for the state. In the case of alcohol and tobacco, taxation has always gone hand in hand with other measures to control consumption. Excise duties currently cover a wide range of phenomena. They have increasingly become a form of climate and environmental taxation aimed at limiting consumption and promoting sustainability. The excise duties are actually a somewhat odd bird family in the tax system, which we want to be uniform, uniform and neutral in relation to people's and companies' choice of consumption and production. The tax system must be long-term and sustainable. It is intended to finance general welfare and should not be a governing instrument for economic, labour market, cultural and other forms of policy. Therefore, excise duties may also raise more questions than other taxes about delimitation and tax rates. The large number of individual motions in this report also tells us something about the complexity and difficulty of finding accurate excise duties. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. I would like to point out that in many cases our rejection of the motions does not mean that we are against the proposals but that we do not want to anticipate work in progress. Madam President, I would like It could be possible to make long speeches on each individual excise duty. I am abstaining from this and trying to focus instead on the part of excise duty that we agree on in one sense, even if we see differently at the pace and on what commitments we are going to make in Sweden or within the European Union. There are many of us who agree that there is a climate crisis or a climate emergency. The other week, the world of science described how climate change raises sea level, what a huge threat this poses, and what costs already affect countries and cities that are trying to build walls and walls. In the news we have also heard about how Vellinge Municipality is now working to build a controversial protection wall, to which the residents are split. The rise in sea level is just one aspect of the devastating climate change that we absolutely must halt. A more ambitious climate, energy and environmental policy is needed. We need to review the regulatory framework in the areas of energy, environmental taxation and state aid in order to enable effective economic instruments to reduce emissions and cope with the climate and species crisis. Madam President, I would like In 2015, UN member states adopted Agenda 2030, a universal agenda that sets out the 17 global goals for economic, social and environmental sustainable development. Important steps have already been taken, and legislation on the environment, climate and energy in particular has been negotiated or is being negotiated to enable Sweden to switch to a more sustainable society. A climate policy framework consisting of a climate law, new climate targets and a Climate Policy Council was introduced in June 2017. In order to reduce emissions from the transport sector, a reduction obligation system, a bonus – the Malus system for new light vehicles and a flight tax have been introduced. The government has said that it will work to ensure that EU legislation ensures that the targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency are met and creates good conditions for sustainable bioenergy. In the proposal for a climate policy action plan, the Government describes how the climate policy work should be carried out during the term of office. The Government proposes that increased efforts be made to integrate climate policy into all relevant policy areas in order to achieve the long-term and time-limited emissions target. Putting a price on emissions, that is, the polluter pays principle, is fundamental to climate policy. Since the early 1990s, energy and carbon taxes have a special position in terms of their impact on the development of emissions in Sweden and are still of fundamental importance for emissions from transport, district heating production and industry outside the EU emissions trading scheme. The emission price gives a steering signal to all stakeholders and improves the competitiveness of climate-smart alternatives. It is important to promote stronger commitments for all countries with high emissions in order to promote global pricing of greenhouse gas emissions. In the Bill A comprehensive climate policy – a climate policy action plan, the Government argues that effective carbon pricing is a prerequisite for achieving climate targets and should continue to be a basis for the governance of CO2 emissions in the non-contracting sector. I believe, as I said, that we are in fact in agreement on the need for policies based on long-term rules of the game that can help reduce emissions while at the same time ensuring good economic growth and competitiveness. But we assess the balance between different interests differently. Our time is hardly the time for doubt when it comes to tackling the major world and social problems. The climate crisis is a matter of destiny for all of us, and it remains to be resolved after the Corona. What we have done so far is not enough, but we need to do more to achieve the climate targets.
i-4e518e9df739b4f3-739	Madam President, I would like Nature is free. The only thing that costs is man's working time. When we dig holes in the earth's crust in search of minerals, forest ecosystems devastate and turn into forest raw materials or bottom trawls the oceans in search of marine life, it therefore costs no more than technology, fuel and the time we spend on it. That's what's being taxed. In fact, it is smaller than that, since large companies are seen as heroes who create jobs. Therefore, the large industries are subsidised in their predatory drive on the resources of nature. Madam President, I would like We have forgotten that nature belongs to all of us. We shall all be able to enjoy nature for recreation and food. Why, then, do we let a single company brutally destroy the entire ecosystem with its bottom trawling? We agree with the Center Party and believe that more of the tax derived from, for example, hydropower should remain in the regions from which it comes. One example of bottom trawling is that a single industrial trawler in the Stockholm archipelago has fished 175 times more herring than all Stockholm fishermen together. But the fish belongs to all of us. According to SCB, the value of our common fish amounted to SEK 921 million in 2018. But the company does not pay any tax on this. According to an OECD report, OECD countries also provide state aid to the fisheries sector of SEK 130 billion. Madam President, I would like Our crust is also sold out to international venture capitalists. There are no proper demands for companies to be able to take responsibility for unpredictable events or to restore the land after them. That bill will be sent to the taxpayer. Each mine costs an average of SEK 200 – 300 million for taxpayers to restore. The companies in question hardly pay any tax. The current mineral levy of 2 per mille is a joke, and Sweden is incredibly low in international comparisons of fees and taxes on minerals. The mining industry is also subsidised in various creative ways. For example, the mining industry pays no landfill tax, even though it accounts for more than 90 per cent of all waste in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The land of the world, that is, what we go and stand on-- yes, the earth itself-- is becoming increasingly concentrated in the hands of the economic elite. Nevertheless, the debate on land taxes is almost non-existent. In the EU, only 1% of agriculture consists of industrial agriculture, but it absorbs 20% of the surface. Agriculture of over 100 hectares, that is, 3% of EU agriculture, accounts for 50% of agricultural land. We recognize the pattern: Fewer and fewer people own more and more. As the world's nature is ravaged by capitalism's greed, family businesses are also being outcrowded. Everyone loses, except the elite. Nestlé has sucked out drinking water from indigenous peoples around the world and sold it in bottles while those living there cannot drink away their thirst. At the same time, it is argued that we cannot afford to protect nature. This actually means that we do not want to give up maximum returns, which is what we have expected. Of Sweden's state budget, 0.19 per cent goes to nature conservation. This compares with the approximately 6 percent spent on the military. It is about our belief in eternal and constantly growing returns and the race to transform the priceless nature into monetary values. We must remember that ecosystems constitute our entire primary economy. That's where all life and our life comes from: the tomatoes in the shop, the water in the tap and the air in our lungs. All this we take for granted, and it comes to us thanks to nature. Yet it is both free and legal to destroy nature. Madam President, I would like In a green spirit, it is often said that it should be easy to do the right thing, but I want to add that it must be impossible to do the wrong thing, when doing the wrong thing carries with it world-destructive consequences where it does not matter if you are right or left. So we can get a bit along the way to make it easy to do the right thing with a green tax shift. However, there is still a race to the bottom where companies constantly look at where there is the worst environmental legislation and where it is cheapest to extract natural resources. That is why we in Sweden must work for an international law that criminalises large-scale environmental destruction and complements the Rome Statute with ecocid law. This is a struggle that Olof Palme has initiated and that we environmentalists have taken on. I hope that more parties will follow us in that fight.
i-5DzFZ8qETV1gbyHbK463aN	Madam President, I would like I would like to support our reservation No 13.
