i-d640527578521f35-3	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me which government assignments have been given to the responsible authorities to start work on raising and identifying poison tunnels in the Baltic Sea. Lars Beckman also asks if the government in regulatory letters has instructed the responsible authorities to start work on addressing the poison barrels that have been identified. Lars Beckman has again asked me what it is estimated to cost to take up toxic tunnels in the Baltic Sea and what budget the government has set aside for this year 2020. Jörgen Berglund also has questions about the salvage of the poison barrels dumped outside Sundsvall and Gotland. Jörgen Berglund asks if there is a mandate in the regulations for 2020 to start work to bring up the poison tunnels and why the work cannot begin even though the issue of liability for payment is not resolved. Finally, Jörgen Berglund has asked me whether I share his concern about the poison tunnels and, if so, when the work is expected to be done. Since the questions concern the dumped poison barrels outside Sundsvall and Gotland, I give a comprehensive answer here. Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that I share the concerns of Members of Parliament about environmental toxins in our seas and waters. In addition, K Vicksilver is one of the most dangerous environmental toxins. Sanitation of contaminated sites from environmental toxins is an important issue for the government, as we have clearly demonstrated. The grant has never been as large as it is today and totals almost SEK 900 million compared to just over SEK 400 million in 2014. I would like to remind you once again that for the financial year 2019, the Riksdag decided to allocate SEK 100 million less to the grant compared to what the Government proposed in the budget proposal for 2019. At the Government's proposal, the spring change budget for 2019 then strengthened its allocation. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's regulation letter for 2020 states that at least SEK 100 million will be used for the remediation of environmental toxins for reduced dispersion in the sea and water, especially for the remediation of contaminated sediments. A fundamental principle of environmental law is that the polluter pays. According to the Environmental Code, the polluter, or in some cases the owner of a property, must therefore bear the costs of investigation and after-treatment. The State contribution for the clean-up of contaminated sites is for operations where there is no one who can be held responsible for paying all or part of the operation. In this context, I would therefore like to stress the importance of dealing with our old environmental debts responsibly in order to reduce risks to man and the environment. In order for the State contribution to be used effectively, the authorities allocate funds following a national plan to ensure that the areas presenting the greatest risk are addressed first. Since the grant will never be able to deal with all Sweden's contaminated areas, it is important that a liability investigation is always carried out so that the polluter pays where possible. The County Administrative Board of Västernorrland is still working to establish environmental liability for the dumped barrels. The members point out that the County Administrative Board of Västernorrland County writes that the dumped poison tunnels are likely to pose a very high risk to human health and the environment. The problem is that more than 1 000 of the high-risk contaminated areas around the country can pose a very high risk to man and the environment and need to be addressed. We therefore do not avoid the need for prioritising. All county boards therefore prioritise the most polluted areas in the county, and according to the newly updated list of the county administrative board in Västernorrland County, the dumped poison tunnels are on site 8. According to the County Administrative Board, there are therefore other priority areas with a high risk for people and the environment to address. As I explained last autumn, the government has no estimates of what it would cost to take up the dumped poison tunnels or any timetable for work, as further studies are needed to decide what is the most appropriate measure, which affects both costs and timetable. During 2019, the Government decided on a government mission to several authorities that take a greater hold on the pollution in Sweden's seas and waters. The mission aims, among other things, to increase knowledge about the spread of contaminated sediments in our seas and waters for a better national overview. The mission also includes risks of the spread of environmental toxins and the most appropriate policy options. Sweden's geological survey contributes to the government mission by, among other things, mapping contaminated sediment areas with its survey vessel. This mission can thus contribute to better knowledge of the dumped poison barrels.
i-d640527578521f35-16	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am quite sure that those who have followed the social debate in recent years have seen the minister's and government's commitment to plastic straws. It's been clothing combs, and the government's been talking about other issues. However, very little has been said about the 23 000 dumped poison barrels that exist between Sundsvall and Gotland. These 23 000 dumped poison barrels that exist between Sundsvall and Gotland contain 10 tons of mercury. I can assure the Government that we fully agree that it is a problem that there are 10 tonnes of mercury in the Baltic Sea. It is one of the most dangerous toxins in the world that must of course be picked up. I note that a researcher and professor of analytical chemistry at Mittuniversitetet says this to SVT Västernorrland: He goes on to say that it is still eight-nine tonnes of mercury that are at risk of entering the environment. ..................................................... The fact is that some 3,000 of these 23 000 poison barrels have been identified. So there are 20 000 barrels, Madam President, which we do not even know where they are. There are 20,000 poison barrels in the Baltic Sea with 10 tons of mercury, but we do not know where they are! This is a real environmental policy, Madam President. This is environmental policy for real! I can also reassure the Government with, and she knows this of course, that we moderate in our shadow budget for 2020 set aside more money than the government, because we think this issue is so important. We have set aside more money, because we Moderates give priority to what is important. We're listening to the scientists. Every second that I and the Government are standing in this Chamber, the concrete tunnels are crumbling, and we are in danger of getting 10 tonnes of mercury into the Baltic Sea. My conclusion, and that of the scientists, is, of course, that we must take care of this. We need to get those barrels up. We need to identify where they are. That is why Jörgen Berglund and I are asking these questions in today's interpellation debate. What is the government's commitment? Is the Minister sleepless at night because there is a risk that there will be 10 tonnes of mercury in the Baltic Sea? If you were sleepless at night over this, you would have ordered the authority in a regulatory letter to identify where the 20,000 barrels are. A specific mission: Identify where 20,000 barrels of mercury are so we can find out! If you don't, you don't take this issue seriously enough. I welcome the government mission that came after our last interpellation debate, which tells the agency to try to identify pollution. But my interpellation is about the 20,000 poison barrels that we do not know where they are and about the 10 tonnes of mercury that are at risk of going into the Baltic Sea and polluting the sea, destroying bathing areas and making the fish impossible to eat. It is the 20,000 poison barrels that I have mentioned in this interpellation, and I think that one should actually give priority to what is important. We're going to go first, and then we're going to have to take this out of the water so that we don't get a big environmental scandal.
i-d640527578521f35-26	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Now this is the second time I've been standing here discussing the 23,000 poison barrels in the Bothnian Sea with Isabella Lövin. It does not seem that this will be the last time either, given the answers I have received so far. I can already tell you that I will regularly address this important and urgent issue in this House until it is resolved. The tunnels and the poison are going out of the water, point! When it's done, my mission in this matter is clear, not a second before. Madam President, I would like I believe that the Government basically shares my concern about the 23 000 barrels filled with deadly mercury. I also believe that the Government basically understands how dangerous these barrels are to the marine environment and to all living things in it and, by extension, to humans, because mercury is enriched in the ecosystem with major consequences for, among other things, reproductive ability. What divides me and the Government is that I want to do something about this, and it's urgent, while Minister of Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin, wants to wait and see. The government wants to wait and see what I wonder and many with me. The strategy to wait and see has now been going on for decades. The only result is that the water has eaten into the barrels. Madam President, I would like The wait-and-see strategy needs to end. It must be replaced by real action, to wait and see does not solve the problem. It's precisely the action I'm calling for from the Government-- not the worry, because I think she is. But you can't get away from the fact that it's the government and Isabella Lövin who can act. It is the government and Isabella Lövin who have the power in their hands. With power also comes responsibility – great responsibility. Right now, responsibility for bringing up these 23 000 barrels of mercury rests with Minister of Climate and Environment Isabella Lövin. I would appreciate it if she could say something about the timetable, because I and many others are waiting for that answer. Madam President, I would like In fact, I was a little happy when I read the Government's written answers to my questions, as it appears that the government has commissioned several authorities to increase knowledge of contaminated water and seas. I think that's good. I also think that the government and the government should listen to what is said in this House. Unfortunately, there's no mention of the poison barrels. I am still more critical of the fact that the Government is stuck on the issue of responsibility. It is important and will be completed. Responsible companies must pay if liability can be established and demanded. But why can't the barrels be raised before the liability issue is resolved? I argue that it would also be easier to actually get paid by responsible companies if they know what it will cost. Time speaks against us. Every day the barrels rust a little more – if they haven't already rusted. I would like to remind the Government of the facts we have about the accountability of the situation. According to a report from the County Administrative Board of Västernorrland County, land and water have been cleaned up for SEK 682 million. Of that, the taxpayer has accounted for 90%. Less than 10% of a total of 682 million have been financed by the responsible companies. We may find it boring and wrong, but these are facts. Madam President, I would like I hope that in this round of answers I will receive answers to my questions. Why can't the barrels be addressed even if the liability issue is not solved? When will the government give the responsible authorities the task of ensuring that the barrels of mercury come up?
i-d640527578521f35-35	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Members of the Moderates, for the important questions about the old environmental debts that we have around our country! Of course, I share the outrage that once upon a time mercury was allowed to be dumped in our sea. At first they dumped in international waters, but when it was too far to travel, they dumped with open eyes in the Gulf of Bothnia. It's an environmental scandal itself. Thank God we know better today. Unfortunately, we must lift our eyes from these poison barrels and note what the situation is in Sweden otherwise. So we have 26 000 risk-rated areas in Sweden. Of these, more than 1,000 areas are classified as very high risk to humans and the environment, risk class 1. One of these thousand areas concerns the poison barrels. Of the more than 1,000 areas that pose the greatest risk, there are about 100 in Västernorrland and Gävleborg County. The poison tunnels, which the government has commissioned to map and fix, among others, contaminated areas, are located in place eight together with three other contaminated areas on Västernorrland County's list of the most prioritised areas. Unfortunately, I must draw Members' attention here to the industrial area of Essvik-Nyhamn, which is an extremely dangerous area. In a reportage on SVT you can see graffiti on walls and on rusty barrels lying out in nature. So young people have stayed in the area. Dog owners pass by; dogs risk entering even if it is now blocked off. It is directly dangerous to be in this area. Dangerous pollutants such as dioxin, arsenic, PCBs, lead and asbestos can be inhaled. This is the priority of the County Administrative Board at present. In Gävleborg County, we have Håstaholmen in Hudiksvall, where previous sawmills have resulted in soil sediment and groundwater – groundwater, I would like to point out – being contaminated mainly by PAH, heavy metals and dioxins. There is a very high risk of spreading into the Baltic Sea. Part of the funding for the remediation of contaminated sediments has been provided here. There are therefore a thousand class 1 areas in Sweden. I would therefore like to stress once again how important the polluter pays principle is. The state cannot go in and pay for the clean-up of all these thousand areas, however much we want. That is not saving taxpayers' money. That is why we must follow what the County Administrative Board considers to be the most dangerous thing for people and the environment and take it on board in that order of priority. It is hardly the case that we have ministerial government in this country and that it is a minister who should point out a specific contaminated area and allocate funds for it because there are active Members of Parliament asking about that particular area, when we have 999 other risk class 1 areas in Sweden. I'll leave that to our authorities. I also note once again that when the Moderates had to change Parliament's budget, they removed SEK 100 million from the grant.
i-d640527578521f35-45	Madam President, I would like Let me remind the Government once again that the Moderates in our 2020 budget are spending more money than the government to identify and pick up the toxins in the sea, so we have sorted it out. Madam President, I would like It seems that the Government is in any case aware that there are heavily polluted areas in Sweden – I am pleased! What if we had seen the same commitment from the government on this issue as we did with the introduction of taxes on plastic bags that take place on 1 March? It is no wonder that the government's policy does not have much confidence in the Swedish people, because the Swedish people know that they should counteract what is dangerous. It is almost a mockery of the Swedish people when you hear the Government be aware of the pollution that exists, while at the same time introducing a clean fiscal fee in the form of taxes on plastic bags. But what do the scientists and experts say about the poison tunnels? This can be read on SVT Västernorrland's website: In 1976 a fisherman caught a concrete block in his trawl. The plate vessel was completely rusted away. The concrete lump was sent to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's then special analytical laboratory for control. Laboratory experiments showed that mercury chloride was leaked from the catalyst concrete mass to the surrounding water. Tests in aquariums also revealed a non-minor leakage of mercury that was absorbed by fish. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like This is for real. There is 8, 9, 10 tonnes of mercury dumped between Sundsvall and Gotland, which must be out of the water, according to one of Sweden's leading researchers. I lack the government's capacity for action and initiative in this area – that it shows the way and shows that Sweden takes the environmental issues seriously. You can travel around the world to other countries and try to point fingers at them or whatever you want to do, but you might want to start in your own country. A few weeks ago, Madam President, I had an interpellation debate here about the conversion of the fleet of vehicles, in which I noted that the state is not an example. Less than 2 per cent of electric cars were purchased for their own business. Minister Isabella Lövin said that in Jämtland you have more electric cars per capita than you have in Stockholm. This can be read in the Minutes. Yesterday, the Swedish National Audit Office produced an extensive report showing that the support for electric cars has gone to Stockholm's inner city and major cities in Sweden. That is the case with the Green Party: you have rhetoric, and there is a reality. As my colleague Jörgen Berglund says, we will continue to debate this issue until the Minister takes it seriously and the Government acts. The government has all the power to rule Sweden. We don't have a willless government that can't do things. The government can tell its authorities how to do this in regulatory letters. It is precisely the initiative we lack – to talk in regulatory letters about identifying where the 20,000 poison barrels are. The government has all the power to govern its authorities, thank God. Otherwise we would not have democracy, and otherwise the voters would not have been able to evaluate the government. I think that this issue deserves to be taken seriously by the government as well.
i-d640527578521f35-54	Madam President, I would like Another aspect of the 23 000 barrels of mercury is that there are new witness reports that some of these barrels may have been dumped much closer to land than previously thought. The Draghällan lighthouse is located just a little bit outside central Sundsvall and has been pointed out as such a place. Draghällan lighthouse is very close to several popular beaches, both on the mainland and on the island of Alnö. Sunny summer days bathe thousands of Sundsvall residents and tourists along the coastline. What does this have to do with mercury? Someone may object that the authorities are well aware of the impact of the bathing water. The answer to that question is no. The samples taken of water quality test the presence of intestinal bacteria and algae, not heavy metals. But in other words, no one today knows whether the bathing water is actually affected. As we heard earlier, it has also happened that barrels have been taken up that have demonstrably rusted. Can Minister of Climate and Environment Isabella Lövin say that she knows that these poison barrels do not affect the bathing water outside Sundsvall? Can Isabella Lövin promise all families with children that she knows the barrels didn't leak mercury? It may be superfluous to say, but bathing in water with high levels of mercury is not recommended. I do not want to scare people in any way, but to highlight more that these 23 000 barrels of mercury can have major consequences, as we may not have seen before, if they are not addressed. Madam President, I would like As Minister for Climate and Environment Isabella Lövin says: There are more areas that are worse exposed. But that is not a reason not to act in this case; I do not think so. Fibre banks have been mentioned. They are, if I understand correctly, both more and less complicated to fix but not always as time-critical. Today's News reported last November about a waterworks in Tullinge that had to close because a high school student found high levels of pollution PFOS. A v Stockholm County's high-risk pollution targets are 15 in water protection areas. The Tullingeverket and the water supply that closed were not number one on the county administrative board's list. In Sundsvall, I might add, the water is not taken from the sea, thank God. However, given that we do not even know where the majority of the barrels are, we cannot know whether they are near any coastal municipalities that actually use sea water as drinking water. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to know whether Minister of Climate and Environment Isabella Lövin can say that the bathing water outside Sundsvall does not contain mercury from the toxic tunnels. Can Isabella Lövin say that the county boards have an eye on all aspects of their priorities? Obviously, a high school student's chemistry work can reverse the priorities. Thank God for that student's discovery! It also led to the water plant's closure.
i-d640527578521f35-60	Madam President, I would like I would really like to emphasise that since the entry into office of the Government, which includes the Green Party, we have more than doubled the allocation to remedy contaminated areas in Sweden. When we took office, it was 400 million; now it is 900 million. When the Christian Democrats and the Moderates voted through their budget for 2019, they removed 100 million from that appropriation. Now the Moderates say you add – fine! Lately the sinner will wake up, I can tell. We have also given a mission to map the extent of contaminated sediment areas in Sweden. This did not happen to the alliance government. This year we set aside SEK 27 million for the implementation of that mission and to take a greater grip on the pollution in water. This can in particular contribute to the not yet located barrels can be found. We have also increased the earmarking of funds to deal with the problems of contaminated sediments and reduce the spread of environmental toxins in seas and waters to at least SEK 100 million for 2020. This does not mean, however, that the state is able to fully finance all the thousands of class 1-class polluted areas that exist throughout our country. I am, to be honest, very concerned and surprised that Lars Beckman believes that at ministerial level we should point out one of the thousand class 1-rated contaminated areas because he himself thinks that this is the most important area. There are, as Jörgen Berglund also pointed out, many other very serious risks to people and the environment around our country, not only in Västernorrland. The region with most Class 1 areas is Västra Götaland. In fact, we need to stick to the principle that it is the polluter who should pay in the first place. Then Jörgen Berglund said : Yes, but it is still the state that pays. Then we can go in and take that responsibility right away. That's not true. Of the measures that have been completed in relation to more than 2,700 sites around the country, only more than 120 have been financed in whole or in part by the State. The remainder is therefore entirely privately funded and also supervised. In the case of Västernorrland County, more than 200 sites have been fixed, of which 15 are by way of state subsidies. It is important to ensure that responsibility falls on those who have caused the terrible consequences for people and the environment. The question of taxes on plastic bags constantly arises here. It is interesting to see how the Moderates lower the tax on petrol and halve the environmental and climate budget when they get the chance. We must also prevent environmental scandals and disasters. It is enough to take a walk in Sweden, along a road with a ditch, to see how much plastic there is. This will then leak into lakes and streams or into the sea. We need to reduce plastic use. It is a sound and good policy, but it is absolutely not in contrast to addressing contaminated areas. On the contrary, we do so much more than the Moderates did when they were in government. Let me say something about fibre banks. It is estimated that there are between 50 and 100 tonnes of mercury in the Baltic Sea. Much of it is in these fibre banks, and it is very serious.
i-d640527578521f35-70	Madam President, I would like A government that prioritises taxes on plastic bags and that prioritised and tried to introduce free years, i.e. leave for adults, healthy people at the expense of someone else, really does not deserve to be taken seriously on this issue. It is said that it is a lack of resources that means that you do not want to identify the 23 000 poison barrels. If you choose to put a single crown on a free year instead of taking up 10 tons of mercury, you are not really credible as Minister for the Environment. As I and Jörgen Berglund have said before, we do not doubt the commitment and knowledge of the Minister for the Environment that action must be taken on these issues. We agree on that. On the other hand, we must have the ability to give priority to what is important and right. For example, I am aware that there are so many contaminated areas in Sweden. Then we have to fix it. Then you do it before you even think about getting out of here. You do it before you think about the idea of opinion-forming about the tax on plastic bags. Why was money not spent in this important area rather than subsidising electric bicycles? The majority of that money just went to Stockholm, according to the RUT report I got. I believe that this is important for credibility, not least in the environmental field. Many understand that 10 tons of mercury must come out of the water. I am absolutely sure that one can and could have refrained from the subsidy on electric bicycles in order for children not to risk getting mercury from the fish they eat.
i-d640527578521f35-74	Madam President, I would like It will be easy in political rhetoric to respond to one argument with another, but not quite. The number of items that are fixed by private actors is correct, but I was talking about crowns and crowns. Surely that must be the most important thing. In my county it is less than 10 per cent of the cost that has been incurred. That the number of items that are entirely privately funded can be larger is something completely different. I would also like to add, Madam President, something about the fibre banks. I share the opinion of the Environment and Climate Minister. However, we know where the fibre banks are. We don't know that when it comes to poison barrels. I started the debate by noting that this is probably not the last time we are standing here discussing the 23 000 toxic tunnels with mercury in the Bothnian Sea, somewhere between Sundsvall and Gotland. Unfortunately, I have to say it. Unfortunately, the citizens were not told by the Government either. Unfortunately, we will all continue to live with the concern about what these 10 tonnes of mercury may cause. Responsibility lies with the government and the Minister for Climate and Environment Isabella Lövin. Wouldn't it be better if the government and Isabella Lövin had devoted time, energy and commitment to the poison barrels, which are actually a really serious problem? Instead, the power has been put into banning plastic straws and introducing a climate-damaging plastic bag tax, condemned by experts. We have benefited Norwegian car owners with Swedish taxes, and we are taxing the countryside with high petrol taxes. I'm afraid I could go on. Madam President, I would like Me and the Moderates will continue to stand up for the environment and climate, and we will do that where it makes the most difference. Placard policy must be replaced by measures that actually have the right effect. For that we need a new government led by the Moderates.
i-d640527578521f35-79	Madam President, I would like In view of the great commitment shown by Members to this particular issue, I assume that the EUR 7 billion that is being reduced by petrol tax will not play a role in the state budget. Lars Beckman and Jörgen Berglund think in a strange way to conjure not only one of the heavily polluted areas of our country, but all of them. It will be very difficult, but I know that you are also taking 6 billion from aid. Perhaps it is the money you intend to use when you sit in the Government Office and point out individual risk-rated areas and do not take into account what county boards, experts or SGUs say on these issues. You can visit SVT's website and follow the reports about the so-called poison coast. There you can read about Essvik-Nyhamn's arsenic-affected area, where you can actually see that toxins leak out that are directly harmful to people around. You can read about Alby chlorat, Cubal, Domsjö Fabriker, Östrand in Timrå and Lugnviks sawmill. It is a long list of problems that need to be addressed. It is not serious to pretend from a political point of view that there is only one seriously polluted area in Sweden when there are actually 1 000. Lars Beckman always wants to return to Green Party politics. We spent SEK 200 million on a skill development year, development time, and 300 million on electric bicycles. But the Moderates spend 6 to 7 billion on making it cheaper to release. It is hardly an effective climate and environmental policy.
i-d640527578521f35-84	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked me whether I continue to believe that certain information measures are sufficient, whether I continue to believe that there is no need for a review of the High School Act and what I intend to do in order for the consequences of the Act to be more predictable and for those who have to deal with the consequences of the Act to be given better conditions for it. Maria Stenergard has asked me whether I still believe that certain information measures are sufficient and what measures I have taken as a result of the criticism that SRR and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, among other things, are addressing the lack of information. I have chosen to respond to the interpellations in a context. The new residence permit option introduced in the so-called upper secondary regime on 1 July 2018 means that certain unaccompanied young people who have received, or would otherwise have received, an expulsion decision under certain conditions may be granted a residence permit for studies at upper secondary level. The aim of the proposal was to provide a residence permit for studies at upper secondary level for the group of young people whose prospects for a residence permit have deteriorated significantly due to very long processing times at the Finnish Immigration Service. In connection with the introduction of the new residence permit option, the provisions on residence permits under the so-called upper secondary rule were also adapted so that studies on coherent vocational education and training in adult education or training under introductory programmes in upper secondary school can provide the same residence permit as studies on a national programme in upper secondary school or upper secondary school. In connection with the Government's submission of the legislative proposals to the Riksdag, the Government also proposed changes to the spending framework and increased appropriations as a result of the legislative proposals. The funding for migration, student support and gender equality and the establishment of newly arrived immigrants was increased by more than SEK 690 million to give the relevant actors the economic conditions to handle the change in legislation. The provisions on residence permits for studies at upper secondary level are included in the Act on temporary restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden, the so-called temporary law. In June 2019, the Riksdag decided that the Temporary Act will continue to apply until 19 July 2021. In connection with this, the Government decided to set up a parliamentary committee to take a position on the formulation of the future Swedish migration policy in order to establish a regime that is humane, legally secure, effective and long-term sustainable. The Committee shall submit its report by 15 August 2020. It is the Finnish Immigration Service and the courts that have the task of interpreting and applying the rules on residence permits for studies at upper secondary level. In the end, it is therefore up to the Finnish Immigration Service and the courts to determine whether the conditions for a residence permit are met, including whether the training is the training provided for in the provisions. The Government has commissioned the Finnish Immigration Service to present examples of educations that have formed the basis for a residence permit or extension on the basis of these provisions. Examples of refusals shall also be provided. The report shall be submitted by 31 March 2020. In order to inform about which studies may give the right to an extension of the residence permit, the Finnish Immigration Service has, among other things, published information on its website and conducted an ongoing dialogue with stakeholders. I therefore consider that the Authority has taken action in accordance with its service obligation.
i-d640527578521f35-89	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Migration for his answer. This is an issue that we have discussed a number of times, and it is probably not the last time that we will highlight such an important and urgent issue. This is currently about 7 500 young people who have received a rejection decision on their asylum application but who have now been given an opportunity to study in Sweden under this temporary law on very loose grounds. There is no university that has understood what rules apply to the studies to be conducted. There is no university that can rate these students, as they do not have the necessary basics. This high school team has received very strong criticism from all the relevant authorities, including the Law Council, because it is unclear, inhumane, unfair and unreasonable. Everyone is now alerting the country that many of the 7 500 young people included in the Upper Secondary Education Act suffer from mental illness, as their uncertainty is high as to whether or not they can stay after completing their studies. As the requirements for studies are so unclear, it is difficult for these young people to know whether they will stay or not and whether they will get a job in Sweden or not. That is the requirement, i.e. that these young people, after completing their studies, should have a lasting job on which to earn a living. We find that so difficult to make clear. That is why the High School Act, once again, is inhumane, unfair and unreasonable. I asked Minister Per Bolund yesterday about the High School Act, because his party was among the strongest advocates of the High School Act. He thought that the high school teams were fantastic, and he only saw the conditions for us to get people into the welfare. But that is not the reality. The Moderates have chosen to look out in reality. Instead, the government is looking down into its 73-point program. We can coldly say that it does not really work to get these asylum seekers young people into our welfare sector. They have problems with language, and as a result they have problems in assimilation of the education that is unclear. Besides, they may not understand what to do. There are very high demands on the municipalities, for example, that they should teach the young people who work in home care to cook porridge for the users in the morning. These young people have never done that. The municipalities have major problems at all to include these asylum seekers young people in the home service because of all the challenges. I think it is unreasonable, inhumane and unfair to impose such great demands on the municipalities to assume this responsibility for a high school team that does not work and that has failed.
i-d640527578521f35-101	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The secondary school law is unfair, inhumane and legally insecure. It is unfair because adults who are deemed to lack protection are allowed to stay in Sweden. It is not fair to all who are fleeing war and oppression in the world and who actually have protection reasons. It is inhuman because it causes a great deal of suffering. Many of those covered by the law live under great pressure and in great uncertainty. They have a difficult housing situation, and some are forced into crime. In far too many cases, the law will only lead to one long and prolonged expulsion. Their uncertainty is increasing the already widespread mental illness. It's terrible. Finally, the law is legally insecure. The Law Council even wrote that the border was now reached. New interpretations are constantly made by the law, and its application is changed because the law is simply substandard. The Upper Secondary Education Act came into force in 2018, but still no one knows how to apply it. Morgan Johansson's just blaming himself. He says that it is the Migration Board and the courts that have the task of interpreting and applying the rules and applying all the responsibilities to others, who are tearing their hair to make a reasonable interpretation of an unreasonable legislation. Such an interpretation shall apply to the requirement for active participation in studies. What is it? No one has known that so far. Today, new regulations have come from the Finnish Immigration Service on how to interpret this. I am very surprised to note that, according to these regulations, only one has to follow one's study plan. There is no requirement whatsoever that you actually pass your studies and get approved. Is it reasonable not to make demands? If you're gonna be able to work and make a living, you can't just go to school. You also have to pass school. And work is a requirement for you to stay here. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, there are more examples of the uncertainty that this poor law has created. Just a few weeks ago, hundreds of students were discharged from their state residences because the Migration Board had suddenly made a new interpretation of the law. The Finnish Immigration Service felt that housing was no longer their responsibility. But no one knows whose responsibility it is, and no one seems to know for sure what type of employment should apply to the right to a residence permit after studying. Time and time again, different messages come to light. The list of ambiguities on purely crucial issues can be made too long. Had it not been because individuals get caught and suffer, I would have been prepared to call this a farce. But every time someone asks a question to Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson about the law, he answers that it is clear from the bill. That is why, of course, my question is: What can Morgan Johansson say that no one else can see in this law?
i-d640527578521f35-107	Madam President, I would like At first, it may be worth remembering what led us into the situation we were in at that time. We took over government power in 2014, and then we took over a policy from the Moderates where the EU's most generous refugee legislation had been enforced. At the same time, care had been taken not to remedy the fact that we had no medical age assessments in Sweden; we were one of the countries in our surrounding world that did not. That system had already been capsized in 2013. These two parts led to the major refugee crisis in 2015, when more than 160 000 asylum seekers came to Sweden – 35 000 of them unaccompanied young people. One third of all the unaccompanied young people who came to the EU came to Sweden. So it was the legacy of the alliance government that we as a newly-responsive government had to deal with. And so did we: we tightened up legislation and ensured that, with border controls, ID checks and the temporary law, the number of asylum seekers is reduced in such a way that it has decreased by almost 90% since 2015. The number of unaccompanied young people has decreased by 97 per cent since 2015. This is the background – that the Moderates led Sweden into the refugee crisis and that we Social Democrats and environmentalists took Sweden out of the refugee crisis, through the austerity we did. However, we got a situation where Sweden took a very big responsibility. I believe that since the war broke out in Syria in 2011, we have protected over 180 000 people who have fled that war, either Syrians or stateless people. Nobody talks much about the Syrians anymore. Why not? Well, they are now on their way into Swedish society. They learn Swedish, complement their educations, adapt to and integrate into Swedish society. No one is lifting them up specifically as a group anymore, because they are on their way into Swedish society. It works fine for them; unemployment has not increased but rather decreased since we took office. The government finances are stronger now than they were when we took over 2014, so neither have we had such an effect. In the case of Afghan young people, however, it has been more difficult. As I said, we had 35 000 unaccompanied young people in 2015, and they had to wait a very long time as a result of the major refugee crisis. Finally, we said that it is not humane to just throw them out after many years in Sweden, when they have learned Swedish, are on their way out to establish themselves and are rooted. We said, "Okay, if you pass high school, stay in the game and don't commit any crimes and then establish yourself in the labour market," then you get a chance to stay here. The Moderates are here saying that this is inhumane, that it is legally insecure and that it leads to mental illness. But the Moderates were against having a second chance at all. If we tore up the law now it would mean that over 7 000 young people were thrown out of Sweden, and then we would talk about mental illness, inhumanity and risk of crime. For these youths would simply go underground. I think it is better to let them have this chance and see the opportunity for them to establish themselves in Sweden. I believe that the regulations that we have in place give them just that opportunity. However, it is not unclaimed, but we give them the opportunity if they live up to the criteria that we have laid down in the legislation.
i-d640527578521f35-114	Madam President, I would like Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson constantly repeats that it is the Moderates' fault that the situation looks like it does. I would like to remind the Minister of his own Prime Minister's government declaration in 2014. There, Löfven were very clear that Sweden would have a humane asylum policy and that Sweden would be a haven for those fleeing persecution and oppression. He said that a broad commitment to migration policy is a strength for our country and that all Swedish municipalities would accept joint and several responsibility for the reception of refugees. The reception would be reinforced with additional resources for SFIs and opportunities for newcomers to complement their education. It was the government declaration in 2014, and after that nothing happened until the government pulled the handbrake in 2015. Then the disaster was a fact. Then we stood there with the massive migration of refugees we saw. I would remind the Minister that it is not the Syrians we are talking about in this interpellation debate, but we are talking about the High School Act. We are talking about 7 500 young people who have been rejected on their asylum application. It is for this reason that I, as a moderate, say that the High School Act is inhumane, unfair and unreasonable. The Moderates want order in the asylum system, and that means that a no is a no. With the High School Act, a no has become a yes, and then maybe it becomes a maybe – or it becomes a no. It is a process of legal uncertainty, as my colleague Maria Stenergard said in her previous speech. It is a legal uncertainty process, and it is uncertain for the individual youth. You don't know if you can stay or not. The Moderates want order in the asylum process, and then a no is a no. That is why it would be appropriate, once again, for the government to review the High School Act so that we can see once and for all the consequences that the High School Act has caused. The government cannot hide behind the fact that it would create mental ill-health if the young people were expelled; it is just the opposite. Here we demand clarity. If you've got a no, that's a no.
i-d640527578521f35-119	Madam President, I would like It's always like this. I ask a question to Morgan Johansson, who has been a minister in this government for almost six years and is responsible for migration policy, and whatever my question is about, it is always the same answer: it is all the fault of the Moderates. This seems to be the new mantra. Yesterday we heard Stefan Löfven say that it was the Alliance's fault that young people are now robbing each other. It is unworthy and, moreover, it is the falsification of history. As my colleague pointed out, the government took over Löfven in 2014. In his first declaration of government, Stefan Löfven said, "The agreement on migration policy is solid." So the first thing Morgan Johansson's government did was to support the migration policy. During the first year of the Government Office, no changes to migration policy were proposed, nor were any studies set up to fundamentally change migration policy. Instead, Stefan Löfven went to the People's Square and declared that his Europe does not build any walls. Not once in this infamous speech did Stefan Löfven say that he wanted to tighten up immigration. It was only autumn 2015 that Swedish migration policy changed fundamentally – when the crisis was already a fact. This is the responsibility of many parties, including the Moderates. But the difference between the Moderates and the Social Democrats is that we stand by our shift in migration policy. We voted against the High School Act, and we voted against increased family migration. The Social Democrats, on the other hand, repeatedly say that they want to tighten up immigration while voting in favour of the High School Act and yes to increased family immigration. They also want to introduce more protection grounds that allow people to stay in Sweden. What Morgan Johansson is doing is trying to rewrite history. It's not very constructive. Instead, I think we should talk about the issue. Only two weeks ago Delmi presented a very readable report on Swedish return work. Delmi is thus the Delegation for Migration Studies, which is a government public investigation. There, the High School Act is clearly pointed out as problematic, partly because it sends double signals about Swedish migration legislation and partly because it is so unclear. In the report, an employee at the National Board of Health and Welfare says: Hard to interpret, hard to understand. If it is difficult for us to understand, we authorities, it is even more difficult for young people to understand. And perhaps also the many times nonprofit people who will help young people understand what they are entitled to... If Minister for Migration Morgan Johansson does not want to listen to us, he can at least listen to the experts – at Delmi, at the teachers, who are under unreasonable pressure, at the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, who are alarming about uncertainty as a source of mental illness, at study and career counselors, who are afraid to give incorrect information to the young people, at asylum lawyers, who talk about unclear legal positions, ambiguity and conflicting answers from Swedish authorities, and at the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, who say that the law has shorted itself. How will Morgan Johansson react to the alarm reports from Delmi, the National Board of Health and Welfare, the Migration Agency, the voluntary organisations, the teachers, the asylum lawyers and not least the young people themselves? The government can't let this go unnoticed, can it?
i-d640527578521f35-127	Madam President, I would like I understand if Maria Malmer Stenergard and Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm are annoyed that I constantly remind them of what led Sweden into the crisis itself. But everyone remembers the speeches about opening our hearts, and everyone remembers what the alliance government stood for. The Moderates led Sweden into that crisis; we Social Democrats and environmentalists took Sweden out of the crisis. Since 2015, the number of asylum seekers has decreased by 87 per cent. The number of unaccompanied young people has fallen by 97%. This is a consequence of the measures we have taken. The Upper Secondary Education Act has apparently had no impact whatsoever on the number of unaccompanied young people who have come to Sweden. There was also some sort of reasoning that if we helped these young people, there would be even more people in Sweden. This has not been the case; there is no evidence whatsoever of it. Rather, the opposite is true: the number of unaccompanied young people has continued to decrease. I think it's strange. You cannot stand here and say that the High School Act is inhumane and that it leads to mental illness when you stand for a policy that is about these young people being thrown out of Sweden. Would the humane alternative be to throw these young people out of Sweden? I would argue that it is exactly the opposite. The humane thing here is to ensure that these young people can read on and then, if they manage to establish themselves in the labour market, have an opportunity to integrate here. You ask whether the information has been sufficient and what training courses to attend and try to paint a picture that nobody knows anything about this at all. But, Madam President, we know that! So far, the Finnish Immigration Service has handled 2,500 extension cases, and the approval rate for these extension cases is 95%. In short, it has been checked whether these are studies that are in line with the regulatory framework. Has the person conducted any studies? Has the person committed any crimes? Has the person kept to the rules that apply? As I said, the granting rate is 95%. I think we have a total of about 150 rejections; everyone else has been approved. In fact, it can't be that difficult to follow the rules, given that the approval rate – again – is 95%. What, then, is to be done if you are part of this group of 7,000 people? What is the type of education you should apply for? You can give some advice. Had I been a 20-year-old from Afghanistan who got this chance and who wants to stay in Sweden, I would have trained myself to be one of the professions where there is a great shortage. I developed the Swedish Public Employment Service's assessment of the shortage jobs we will receive, which is about the jobs you can get after a high school education. At the top of the list are construction workers, machine drivers, concrete workers, electricians, chefs, butchers and cutters. Even nurses, we will need a great many of them in the future, and so it goes on. With the knowledge that you need to get a job and quickly establish yourself in the labour market after finishing high school, I think you should look at which education leads to work. I am out in many high school schools and meet many young people who go on vocational courses. A lot of people say they got jobs practically before they even finished school. There's a big craving for professional workers. Here a lot of the Afghan youth we are talking about now will be able to get a job and establish themselves in Sweden.
i-d640527578521f35-137	Madam President, I would like Once again, I must remind the Minister for Justice and Migration that the reality is not quite as bright as the Minister is trying to describe it. In my question, I have made it clear that a review of the High School Act is needed to make it clear once and for all whether this is a workable piece of legislation. But the Minister is very clear that this review is not needed, and that is what I will hear in his closing speech. What we are seeing today are young people who are growing up in parallel societies because they cannot cope with their studies. The school and all universities are alarming. Of course, they want to go to vocational education and training to be able to get a job, but not all universities and schools can meet their wishes because these are expensive educations. Vehicle technical education is, for example, the most expensive education we have in Swedish school systems, because it takes very large machinery parks to train students to such a profession. That is why I say that we must have clear asylum legislation. It is the Finnish Immigration Service that makes decisions in asylum trials if you can stay or not. That is why I, as a moderate, once again say that we want order in asylum law. A no should be a no, and a yes should be a yes. It's not supposed to be a no or a yes. We want a review to make this clear once and for all.
i-d640527578521f35-141	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Migration thinks that these young people should work as nurses, but how can they do that if they don't get approved grades? Today, the immigration minister's own authority issues a regulation that does not even require a passing grade. It sends out completely the wrong signals, namely that it is enough to go there and sit off time. It sounds to the Minister for Migration like this is about the Moderate attitude. I agree: we have said no to this law from the outset because it is simply wrong and because it is inhumane. However, my question is not about the Moderates voting 'no', but about the government voting 'yes'. Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson got his high school team in place, but he must now take responsibility for all the alarm reports that are coming. We Moderates want order in the asylum system. That means that a no must be a no. With the High School Act, a "no" was a "no" and, at worst – and too often – only one long-term expulsion. Morgan Johansson seems to be very pleased with his high school team. Everyone else realizes it's a pure accident. It is unfair, it is inhuman and it is legally insecure. It's sending a double signal. We Moderates have therefore called for the parliamentary migration investigation to also become an accident investigation for the High School Act. Never again can we allow such legislation to be passed in Sweden – not if we are to get the long-term, sustainable and humane immigration policy that Sweden really needs.
i-d640527578521f35-148	Madam President, I would like You might want to remind me what kind of group we're talking about here. These are 7,000 individuals. It is less than one per mil of Sweden's population. When you listen to some debaters, it sounds like these less than one per mil of Sweden's population are overturning the finances of municipalities and state finances, leading to crime, housing shortages and unemployment. Actually, that's not the case. Don't blow up the proportions of this group to more than what it's really about! Here we have 7 000 young people who all came to Sweden before 25 November 2015, so they have soon been here for five years. They have been able to study in upper secondary schools, they have been able to learn Swedish, they get a chance to establish themselves in the labour market. There will be plenty of jobs for young people in the future, and if you choose to apply for any of the shortage jobs available, you will get a job quite quickly thereafter. Then Maria Malmer Stenergard says that you must have passed grades. Of course you have to complete your education – that is obvious. But we can't have a situation where a single failed course throws you out of Sweden. Of course you have to pass the training. But if we were to have the kind of requirement that I understand that the Moderates are now making, it would mean that we are making much higher demands on these young people for them to pass school than we are on young people in general. No, Madam President, this legislation cannot be evaluated now. We are in the middle of the process that they are in education. However, 95% of those who have applied for an extension have so far received approval. This means that it cannot be so terribly difficult to meet the criteria set by the law. All objections based on the fact that no one knows what the legal situation is are, in fact, wrong. Now we have over 2,500 case management. There is therefore a practice for the interpretation of this legislation.
i-d640527578521f35-153	Madam President, I would like Katja Nyberg has asked me, firstly, when I and the government will present an investigation into the revision of penalties in the event of multiple crime and, secondly, what I and the government will do to guarantee victims' rights of redress in connection with this. The fight against crime is a long-term work that is a high priority of the government. We have carried out a large number of penalties, including for serious violent crimes, and are now making the biggest investment ever on Swedish police. The Government's objective is to increase the number of police employees by 10 000 to 2024. Since 2016, the number has increased by almost 3,500. This is a gratifying development that will eventually make a big difference for a stronger society and a safer Sweden. The government has also recently presented the largest package against gang crime ever in Sweden. The package includes a number of new tools for law enforcement authorities, tougher penalties and better crime prevention. The message is crystal clear, namely that crime should never pay off. Anyone who commits multiple crimes should receive a punishment proportionate to the seriousness of crime. The system of sanctions must be able to deal with cases of multiple crimes at the same time in a credible manner. The Swedish Parliament has announced to the government that it should propose amendments to criminal law in order to improve the measurement of penalties in the event of multiple crime. During the last parliamentary term, the Council has tightened up the regulation on relapses in such a way that more acts will be dealt with as relapsing into crime. The Government has also decided on trial activities with a quick procedure in criminal matters. The trial activities have led to increased prosecution, shorter processing times and increased quality of investigations. The Government has therefore decided that it will continue until 2022 and that it will be expanded in a first step to the entire police region of Stockholm starting in January this year. The government has also recently commissioned a special investigator to investigate a permanent rapid criminal procedure and other measures to speed up the prosecution of criminal offences. Rapid prosecution and more stringent recidivism are measures that together mark society's rejection of repeated crime and counteract it. Even if the punishment is particularly repressive, it can also serve as redress for the victim. Another important part of the redress process for a victim is the possibility of being compensated for the violation of a crime. The government has recently commissioned special investigators to review certain rules concerning victims' right to compensation and the possibility of obtaining such compensation. The aim is to strengthen the position of victims and reduce the harm caused by crime. In addition, the Government has recently submitted a referral to the Legislative Council with proposals for the abolition of the basic deduction for criminal damages. It is important to combat both crime and its causes. It is also important that the victim receives the support and protection he or she needs. The government is prepared to take further measures to reduce crime and increase people's security.
i-d640527578521f35-160	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Morgan Johansson for his reply and welcome the fact that the government is taking certain measures, but I do not think they are sufficient. I note that Morgan Johansson does not respond to the question of penalties in the event of multiple crime and refers instead to old reforms which do not concern the issue itself. The fact that relapses in crime should be assessed seriously is one thing, that those who commit a lot of crimes get a discount for crimes that deserve punishment is a completely different matter. Criminal law today contains a generous system of discounts for those with a criminal lifestyle. The present system is far too generous. A review is needed on the basis of a significant reduction in the penalty value of the subsequent offences. As we know, the amount rebate is based on the principle of asperation: the more crimes a person commits, the lower the penalty for subsequent crimes. In an announcement to the Government, the Riksdag has chosen an intermediate route in which the three most serious crimes should be subject to the principle of accumulation, and the principle of asperation is applied only after that. The Swedish Democrats chose to support the proposal, as it represents an improvement on the current system. The purpose of such a change is to acknowledge the victim's perspective and that the victim should feel that he or she receives the redress that he or she deserves. The government's representatives in the Riksdag reserved for the announcement on account of the preparation of the matter within the Government Office. But the proposals for this were not included in the government's 34-point programme. There is therefore reason to ask Morgan Johansson if the government intends to respond to Parliament's announcement. An adjustment between the principle of accumulation and the principle of asperation should be the starting point for such an investigation. Madam President, I would like The higher purpose of the punishment is to show the victim and everyone else that it is not the law of the strong or the most ruthless or brutal that governs. With today's generous discount system, it is the strong one's law that applies, which runs counter to the general view of law. The current system of rebates also leads to another problem which further reduces the possibilities for victims to obtain redress. Being a victim of crime is not only a violation but also psychological suffering for the victims of crime, as they are deprived of the opportunity to obtain redress through financial compensation. Knowing that multiple criminality and prosecutions do not result in criminal penalties, it is not uncommon for prosecutors to close criminal investigations because they do not lead anywhere. This, in turn, means that the victim is not entitled to the same amount of damages, compensation from insurance companies, the Victims' Agency and so on. In some cases, this may even lead to a complete lack of financial redress. The Swedish Democrats believe that the starting point for crimes against persons should be that deductions should not be applied to the subsequent crimes. The victim's redress in the individual case shall not be violated and shall outweigh the criminal's potential for reintegration. I therefore wonder, Morgan Johansson, what is most important, the rehabilitation of the criminal or the victim's means of redress.
i-d640527578521f35-169	Madam President, I would like To that question, the answer is simple: both are important. The victim has a right to redress, but it is also important to ensure that the person who has committed a crime stops doing so through the penitentiary service of the convicted person. And the more criminals leave crime, the fewer victims we get, so it's totally wrong to put these things against each other. It is true that we have problems with gang crime. The problems have not come in recent years, but we have had these problems since more than 20 years when these gang structures were firmly established in Sweden. This government is taking hold of this in a way that no other government has done, I would say. We are now carrying out the biggest police effort ever: 10,000 more police employees up to 2024. We have already made sure that the police have now increased by over 3 500 employees, so we have already reached a third of the target we have set ourselves. The police now have more employees than ever before in Sweden's history – about 32,000 employees. We have implemented penalties in a wide range of areas. I do not think there is a Minister of Justice who has put forward proposals for more penalties than I have done. We have put up cameras in a large number of the vulnerable areas in particularly vulnerable places. We are investing far more in crime prevention than before, and we are expanding the whole chain of justice, not only the police, but also the prison services and the courts. Let's nuance the picture a little. Yes, we have problems with gang crime, but it was actually more likely to be killed in Sweden 30 years ago than it is today. The number of cases of lethal violence per capita has decreased since 1990 onwards. As a basis for our work, we have the 34-point programme from last autumn. It contains further punitive measures, such as for robbery, serious blackmail and a number of other crimes. Katja Nyberg talks about multiple crime. Of course, it's easy to take populist points on the theme, and can you get a discount for crime? .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This is not a question of quantity rebates; it is a question of punishing crime as a whole. If one were to do in the way that I think Katja Nyberg is looking for and stacking the crimes on each other, it would have completely unreasonable consequences. Let me give you an example. The maximum sentence for theft is two years in prison. If you were to stack the crimes on each other, the maximum sentence for six thefts would be 12 years in prison. That's more than the maximum punishment for manslaughter or aggravated rape. It cannot be reasonable that six thefts are worse than a manslaughter or a gross rape. We have these rules in order for there to be some sort of reasonableness and to be able to look at the penalty value as a whole. If the Swedish democrats now want to go into this absurdity, that is, stacking the maximum punishment of crimes on each other, they can also budget for it. But the Swedish Democrats have not wanted to do that. As late as 2018, when they pushed through the budget with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, they underfunded the prison services. The prison service has no chance of coping with these penalties if it is underfunded at the same time. We will proceed with penalties in those areas where it will have an effect, but we will not introduce a system that will have the unreasonable effects that the Swedish democrats are apparently looking for.
i-d640527578521f35-180	Madam President, I would like As I said, it is welcome that the government is taking certain measures, but I still do not get an answer to my question. In its announcement, the Parliament has chosen a middle ground where the three most serious crimes should be subject to the combination principle so that they are placed on each other. Thereafter, the principle of asperation shall apply. The focus of today's prison care is on the rehabilitation of the criminal. Treatment rather than punishment is considered the best way to prevent continued crime. This is based on a view that criminals are the victims of society, that they are individuals who often cannot help their situation and that it is therefore inhumane to punish them. This explains the many exceptions and remedies we have, including two-thirds release, multiple crime rebates, youth discounts, probation instead of prison, and generous leave and benefits. Most people realise that this, combined with a low clearance level and that the police have difficulty carrying out their mission, especially in certain vulnerable areas, makes it quite easy to commit crimes and avoid punishment in Sweden today. In other words, Sweden is a paradise for criminals. We politicians are putting forward proposals for tougher penalties and tougher action against the rise in crime. However, all these detached increases in penalties for various crimes are obviously not enough, and they should not really be necessary. The abolition of the current system of penalties would go a long way, and increases in penalties would not be necessary to the same extent. With the abolition of quantity and penalty rebates, the criminal code and the court code also become more uniform. But now, instead, the penalties are raised on the basis of what debate is taking place. Let us remember that today's criminals are not primarily children of accident but are often motivated by completely different motives. It can be gang loyalty, social status, easy money or even crimes such as leisure or entertainment. Today, criminals are both in charge and in charge, and there is little pity for them at all. It is no wonder that people get upset and even pissed off at what is described as dwindling with criminals. The basic strategy therefore needs to be changed so that victims' redress is put first. Then we can possibly work with the perpetrators and their reintegration into society. It may sound old-fashioned, but it is an essential component for the functioning of the judiciary. It is time to review the penalty system and show that we really care about the victims. What does the government intend to do to restore victims' chances of redress?
i-d640527578521f35-190	Madam President, I would like Of course, we will continue with the punitive measures that have a good effect. We will also continue to expand the police. We also invest in faster prosecution. Sometimes the most effective is perhaps not more severe punishment but more rapid punishment. In my interpellation response, I reported on the efforts we are now making. We go first throughout Stockholm, and in 2022 we will have expanded it throughout the country. This means that for a large number of crimes we can reduce the processing time between arrest and conviction from 20 weeks to 2 – 6 weeks, i.e. a more immediate intervention. This, in turn, means that the subsequent crime you commit after you have received a sentence will be charged with the new punishment because it is considered a relapse into crime. This has had a good effect in the areas in northern Stockholm where we have tried it. That is why, as I said, we are going to expand this throughout the country. In my opinion, there is no contradiction between the attitude of having a tough attitude towards those who commit the crimes, such as those who are gang criminals and walk around and think they own a block or a residential area, and the attitude that once they come to the penitentiary should work to reduce the risk of relapse into crime. In fact, for 20 years now, relapses in crimes after serving sentence have been reduced. You don't always believe that when you hear the debate, but that's the way it is. So there is an opportunity to come back to society after being in prison. It benefits everyone, not least future victims. The more people leave the criminal world, the fewer victims we will have in the future. Katja Nyberg is trying to adjust her proposal because she understands that it is completely unreasonable that six thefts should bring more punishment than a manslaughter or a gross rape. That's why she says it's only the three gravest crimes that should count. However, it has the same type of unreasonable effect. Let's say we have three burglaries. The maximum sentence for burglary is six years in prison, so three burglaries would give 18 years in prison. That's almost twice as much as the maximum sentence for aggravated rape and manslaughter. Thus, a burglar who commits three crimes would risk being sentenced to almost twice as much punishment as a rapist. I think most people who think about this think that this is not entirely reasonable. However, if you have the position of Katja Nyberg, you must also be prepared to expand the prison system and to budget for it. But the last time the Swedish Democrats got the chance to vote through a budget, in autumn 2018, you co-financed together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats Correctional Services with SEK 300 million. The first thing I had to do then was to spend the money the Correctional Service needs. Another thing: if you want to increase penalties, you also have to ensure that prisons can be built. Then you cannot behave like the Swedish Democrats have done in Svedala, for example, where they have gone in to stop the new prison building. So do a populist party. First to stand here and talk about increased punishment and harder hold and then stop a prison building at the local level, it doesn't work.
i-d640527578521f35-200	Madam President, I would like As I see it, the government is not capable of dealing with the problems, but rather leans towards general statistics. Even though crime is falling in some areas, there are still groups that commit serious crimes, and right now there are bombings, shootings and robberies against mainly young people that run away. As politicians, it is in fact our darned task to tackle these problems and not to lean on statistics that show that crime goes down in certain categories of crime. The Police Association conducted a police investigation and asked how best to fight gang crime. The police replied that the abolition of the quantity rebate and the abolition of penalty rebates for young people are important reforms that need to be implemented. Why should we not listen to those who work with this problem on a daily basis? They should reasonably know what they're talking about. Unfortunately, there are no proposals in the 34-point programme for the abolition of the quantity rebate, which is something that we verige democrats want to see. There is, on the other hand, the abolition of penalty rebates for the age category 18 to 20 years, but this applies only to serious crime. I wonder why it's not all about crime. You are grown up enough to vote, drive a car and do all that is associated with being an adult, but the only thing you wouldn't be grown up enough to do is take the consequences of your own actions. Why is that? I will also say a few words about the reason why we supported the M's and KD's budget. We simply took the second best option. If we had the choice, we would have taken our budget and put even more effort into it. In the latest budget, the Swedish Democrats spend 1.9 billion more than the government on the Prison Service and a total of 5.6 billion more than the government on the entire judiciary. With our budget, there is a good capacity to meet what the Prison Service needs. It is time to review the penalty system and show that we are genuinely protecting the redress of victims.
i-d640527578521f35-207	Madam President, I would like The truth is that the Swedish Democrats voted for the M-KD budget, which underfunded the Prison Service with over SEK 300 million. I think the Correctional Service had requested SEK 395 million, but they got 85 of you, Katja Nyberg. The first thing I had to do was to send new money to the Correctional Service so that we could expand it. Katja Nyberg did not answer the question of how to stand in this Chamber and talk about higher penalties and, on the other hand, stop institution buildings and work against it at the local level. This is how a populist party feels what works in Svedala and what works in parliament and then has no connection in between. You can't stand here demanding higher penalties and then at the same time stop prison buildings. Katja Nyberg says that the Swedish Democrats spend more money in their draft budget this time, but this money will not go far. If three burglaries can give 18 years in prison, the money will run out 15 minutes. It is not enough to do so in the way that Katja Nyberg clearly wants to do. Then it is unreasonable that some burglaries can give double the penalty of a gross rape or manslaughter. I do not believe that this is reasonable in the general sense of law. No, the best way to deal with this type of multiple crime is to have a good system for faster prosecution, that is to say that a crime can give a rapid sanction or action on the part of society. Then, of course, there should be a good penitentiary system that allows you, once you get out and stand outside the gates, to have a good opportunity to be able to re-integrate into society. This benefits everyone, both victims of crime and society at large.
i-d640527578521f35-211	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me whether the rules on the withdrawal period for the application for Swedish citizenship should be reviewed and whether the statistics available regarding the application of the withdrawal rule are sufficient. One of the conditions for becoming a citizen upon application is that one has had and can be expected to have an honest way of life. In order to be able to assess this, the Migration Agency does, among other things, punches in the Police Authority's load and suspicion register and in the Swedish Enforcement Authority's register. In addition, the Finnish Immigration Service always requests information from the Swedish Security Service on whether there are any obstacles of a security nature to granting Swedish citizenship. According to the practice, different withdrawal periods apply – if the applicant has committed a crime or has debts. In calculating the length of the withdrawal period, an overall assessment is made of the circumstances of the individual case. According to practice, a withdrawal period of 25 years is applied to the acquisition of Swedish citizenship for persons who have been active in or had a controlling influence over an organisation that is known to have involved systematic, extensive and gross abuse. The Migration Court of Appeal has stated in a decision from 2019 that the 25-year withdrawal period should be perceived as a benchmark in the trial. Therefore, the withdrawal period may exceed or be less than 25 years. For other offences, other withdrawal periods apply. As an example, a person sentenced in Sweden to one year's imprisonment can generally be granted Swedish citizenship only seven years after the crime was committed. Documents that may involve the application of withdrawal periods range from payment notes to serious crimes against humanity. It is not possible to regulate this in detail in the Citizenship Act. The directives for the study on language and social literacy requirements for Swedish citizenship and other issues of citizenship already include possibilities to extend the examination of honest ways of life in citizenship matters. The investigation examines, inter alia, the question of whether notification cases for persons over 15 years of age should include a requirement that the person subject to the notification is not convicted of serious crime. From 2019 onwards, the Finnish Immigration Service systematically started to keep statistics on the number of applicants who are refused due to the so-called 25-year rule. This will give us a clearer picture of how this is applied.
i-d640527578521f35-219	Madam President, I would like Not everyone should be allowed to become a Swedish citizen, but unfortunately this seems to be the case, which has been done more than overexplicitly in the case of our second Minister of Defence, Najah al-al-Shammari. There is much to be said about this tangle, but perhaps the most attentive and spectacular is the Finnish Immigration Service's interpretation of the citizenship law and the 2004 decision that means that people who have had decisive influence over an organisation that has committed systematic, extensive and gross abuse should have a withdrawal period of 25 years when they apply for citizenship. The Director-General of the Migration Agency claims that the withdrawal period does not apply to officials in national armies, unless personal responsibility for a particular act can be established, and that the withdrawal period mainly concerns persons with backgrounds in the security or intelligence services. However, there are guidelines in preparatory work and practice that say otherwise. The Migration Court of Appeal has interpreted the rule in a couple of cases from 2007 and one from 2019, as the Government mentioned in its reply, and in all cases it decided on karens. According to the judgment in all cases, it is sufficient for the person to have been active in or controlled the organisation in question. Moreover, the Court expressly notes that the Government's practice does not require that the individual himself be directly or indirectly involved. ..................................................... The fact that both government decisions and practices are based precisely on participation, without taking into account the specific type of organisation, makes the Director-General's assertion partly unsupported in the legal sources. Instead, the statement must be seen a little bit as the Migration Agency's own, much more restrictive interpretation, which is a typical example of the destructive impact that the government left is allowed to have on Swedish public administration. Against this background, I would like to ask the Government: does he think it reasonable that the Karens rule should not be applied to persons who have been active in national armies, such as Saddam Hussein, and who have committed human rights violations, without personal responsibility being substantiated? The government has set up a new citizenship inquiry, and then it would be appropriate to provide a supplementary directive to review the loophole. The Government also mentions this in the interpellation response, but I think it is trying to wriggle a little bit on the specific issues. The answer states: a withdrawal period of 25 years is applied to the acquisition of Swedish citizenship for persons who have been active in or controlled an organisation that is known to have involved systematic, extensive and gross abuse. But that is not true because the Migration Board has decided that it will not apply to al-al-Shammari, for example, even though it was known that he had very much dominated Saddam Hussein's army. It also states that the investigation examines, inter alia, the question of whether, in cases of notification for persons over 15 years of age, a requirement should be introduced to ensure that the person subject to the notification is not convicted of serious crime. This is what the Government refers to, but it has nothing to do with this. Persons who have been involved in crimes against international law are usually unable to obtain citizenship through the notification. Registration cases are in most cases about children with a certain connection to a Swedish citizen, so it is not really relevant when it comes to the group we are talking about now. I would like a more honest and straightforward answer: does the Government think that the rule is being applied in a reasonable way, when it is seen that, for example, generals in national armies who have undoubtedly done quite abominable things can get Swedish citizenship without karens?
i-d640527578521f35-228	Madam President, I would like It is clear that we should not have any security risks as Swedish citizens. People who have committed war crimes or other such crimes should not have as Swedish citizens either. That is why the rule we are talking about here is that one should have had and be expected to have an honest way of life. This rule is applied by the Finnish Immigration Service. Every year, the Finnish Immigration Service rejects thousands of applications for citizenship, of which a little more than 1 000 have been made because of their behaviour, i.e. they have committed crimes, for example. With regard to security matters, there is now good cooperation between the Migration Agency and the Swedish Security Service. It is a much closer cooperation than was the case just four five years ago. There is now much more extensive control over the type of cases we are talking about. When the Security Service discovers links to, for example, a terrorist network, it will of course be no in the trial. The trial can then be appealed to the government. It is the government that makes the decisions, but I personally deal with these matters as preparatory ministers. There are a number of such cases a year. I've never gone against the Security Service's recommendation when I've handled those kinds of cases. Then suppose that the situation when this is being tried by courts or by the Migration Board is that long ago you have been involved in a military conflict where the side you fought for committed gross abuse but that you have lived an honest life and are expected to live an honest life in the future. Then there is the withdrawal period we are talking about for Swedish citizenship. The benchmark is 25 years, but it can be longer or shorter – it depends entirely on the individual case. This practice is now being set by the courts with the new Aliens Act of 2006. It is no longer the government that sets this practice. In Ludvig Aspling's interpellation there are unfortunately a few errors. An obvious error, but not the biggest, is that the interview in Aktuellt was on November 25th and not on November 29th. A major error is that Ribbenvik, contrary to what Ludvig Aspling claims in his interpellation, never mentions individual responsibility in that interview. He talks about persons who are active in organisations directly involved in murder, extrajudicial executions, etc. But he does not link it to any individual responsibility. This is in line with existing practice. There is no need to show that the applicant has been guilty of this type of crime himself. It is sufficient that the applicant has been active in such an organisation or has had a controlling influence. The same is true – if you have had a controlling influence, you have also been active in the organization. This is also confirmed by recent practices which Aspling does not mention in his interpellation but which I refer to in my reply, namely a case in the Migration Court of Appeal in the summer of 2019. There a person's application for citizenship was rejected because the applicant was involved in such an organisation without being able to link the applicant to war crimes, for example. It was sufficient that the applicant had been involved in such an organisation. There is therefore no need for individual liability, and the Director-General has never said so. Finally, as far as statistics are concerned, I shall say that this is the first time we have received statistics on this. The Migration Board will, of course, further refine it. I know that the work is doing this, and it does not require a special mission.
i-d640527578521f35-236	Madam President, I would like The case of al-al-Shammari is an almost perfect snapshot of Sweden in 2019 and the real effects of Social Democratic public administration. A man who has previously served as general in Saddam Hussein's army, probably has been partly guilty of terrible abuse of his own population, holds a strong position of power in the military, probably has both good financial resources and a broad international network and certainly has no grounds for protection whatsoever to come to Sweden and seek asylum, because he knows that in Sweden a party has long since stopped caring about who is moving in. Of course, the husband is immediately granted a permanent residence permit under false identity, because – yes, why not? In addition, he gets citizenship a couple of years later, even though the Security Service knows who the person is and also knows that he has applied under a different name. Shortly after receiving his citizenship, the man is charged with assault and gross violation of peace by family members. Just before trial, the charges are dropped – according to SVT's information, under pressure from the plaintiff. A few years later, the man takes office as Iraq's Minister of Defence. In connection with this there is information in Iraqi media about his Swedish citizenship, but no one within the highly charged Swedish foreign authorities seems to be sufficiently interested in doing their job and following what is said about Sweden in local media. The man is suspected of crimes against humanity. At the same time, he is on long-term sick leave and receives contributions from Försäkringskassan, at the same time as ordinary Swedish cancer patients who have not participated in genocide or human rights crimes are thrown out and forced to look for a job. In conclusion, classical social-democratic politics. What the Government says about the 2019 case is absolutely correct. What the court says is that it is possible to reject an application even if it has not linked the applicant to a specific act. That's right. But that's not really what this interpellation is about. What it is about is that the Migration Agency makes a decision not to reject an application. The Finnish Immigration Service grants an application for a person because you have not been able to link the person to a particular act. I and the Minister for Migration disagree on the statement made by Mr Ribbenvik. It is quite clear to me that what he says is that one must be able to tie a person like this to a certain act in order to reject the application and that is why his application sailed through. What else would the reason be? Swedish authorities knew who he was. What's gone wrong? If it is the case that the application should generally be rejected in such cases, as the Minister for Migration claims, something else has fallen. Then the Finnish Immigration Service has made a clearly wrong decision. Now I am fully aware that we may not be able to discuss individual cases in this way. This should not be done in the speaker's chair, although there are many who usually use them as an example to point to a larger trend. But what is it that allows the Migration Agency to grant citizenship in such cases to persons who have belonged to national armies who have obviously been guilty of quite serious human rights violations? What's gone wrong?
i-d640527578521f35-245	Madam President, I would like No, we cannot, above all I cannot stand and judge individual cases. Then I would be guilty of ministerial rule and interfere in such assessments as the Migration Board and the courts should make. I can't do that. However, I can explain what the regulations look like. It looks like the way I explained earlier: if there is a safety risk with regard to an applicant and Säpo discovers this and has information about it, it is usually no. Then you can appeal to the government. Then I'm the one dealing with those questions. I can assure Ludvig Aspling that I take very seriously the matters that come to the government and see what information is available in the individual cases. I have never so far opposed the Security Service's recommendation in any individual citizenship case in this part. If the Security Service says that there are links to, for example, terrorist networks and therefore advises against citizenship, it will be a no straight up and down. Ludvig Aspling glides a little on what the Director General said. I pointed out that the statement in the interpellation about what Mikael Ribbenvik said is not correct. Mikael Ribbenvik did not talk about individual responsibility. He expressed himself in a completely different way. Here Ludvig Aspling glides on the truth. Of course, he does that to try to make a point. This is not the first time we have seen Swedish democrats doing this. They think we don't control the source, but we do. When we see such a statement, we go to the source and see what was actually said. You're not going to get away with this type of slip, we control it. We simply see what has actually happened and what has been said. The Director-General therefore does not talk about any individual responsibility, but expresses himself in a completely different way. In my view, he expresses himself precisely on the practice that applies. Madam President, I would like No, we should not have any security risks as Swedish citizens. We should not have people who have committed war crimes or other serious crimes as Swedish citizens. There is a regulatory framework for this, and we intend to ensure that this is maintained.
i-d640527578521f35-249	Madam President, I would like I can assure Morgan Johansson that it is not the case that we slide on the truth here on purpose. If I have misunderstood it, I apologize for that. When I saw the interview with Mikael Ribbenvik, it was clear to me that that was how he put it, but I may have misunderstood it. I have one more question before we finish. The security police knew at the time he was granted citizenship that Najah al-al-Shammari had been active in Saddam Hussein's army partly as general. The second fact that makes this story a little strange is that the name that this person uses in Sweden is not Najah al-al-Shammari, but he has a different name in the census here. This means that he has applied for citizenship under false identity and that the Swedish authorities knew about it at the time they granted the citizenship. Given the problem we have with false identities, why is there no absolute ban on granting this type of citizenship? Actually, he has a different name.
i-d640527578521f35-252	Madam President, I would like If Ludvig Aspling suggests that the Security Service is not doing its job, I'd say the opposite. The Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Migration Agency work very closely together on all the matters that we have to deal with here. When the Security Service finds out that there may be irregularities, they also sound the alarm. My picture is that the Migration Agency listens very carefully to what the Security Service says. If there are appeals, it goes to the government. In any case, we have followed what the Security Service has said so far. Of course, I cannot go into individual cases. I can't do that. But I can assure Ludvig Aspling that both the Security Service and the Migration Agency take this type of matter very seriously. Then it depends on the information you have in the individual case. It is for the authorities to make that assessment. Ludvig Aspling then admits in the debate that he may have misunderstood it. He has done so in my opinion. There is no wording on individual responsibility. In his statement, the Director-General has adhered to the existing practice. Had Aspling not slipped on the truth as he has now done, this interpellation debate may never have come about. Again, we control the sources. Don't say anything in an interpellation that then turns out not to be true.
i-d640527578521f35-257	Madam President, I would like Ulla Andersson has asked me what analyses I have made of what impaired service will mean for those who need the services of the Swedish Enforcement Authority, especially personal service, and what impaired access to government services in Hälsingland and Hudiksvall means. She has also asked whether I stand by the fact that government presence will decrease in Hälsingland and whether more jobs will be created in rural areas as government services deteriorate. In 2019 I have responded to similar interpellations on the same subject. The questions are raised against the background that the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten 2018 decided to relocate its operations from Hudiksvall to Gävle and Sundsvall. In 2018, the Swedish Enforcement Authority also decided to move approximately 80 annual labour force from Stockholm to other locations after a government assignment. At the outset, I would like to emphasise once again that the government's policy should benefit the whole country. Both rural, sparsely populated and larger cities should be able to develop. Government presence is an important issue for the whole country to both live and grow. This is agreed between the government and the cooperation parties. Many authorities, including the Kronofogd e Authority, are responsible for the organisation of the operations themselves, including their office structure. However, the government sees a need for more regional consideration when authorities decide on location. The Government has therefore decided on a new regulation on the location of state authorities, which entered into force on 1 June 2019. During the spring of 2019, the Government has also given the county administrative boards and Statskontoret several different assignments to develop data that now form the basis for continued work focusing on the state presence in the country. In order to ensure and strengthen access to basic government services throughout the country, the National Service Centre is responsible from 1 June 2019 for a comprehensive organisation for local government services, which includes services related to the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the Swedish Pension Agency. Today there are 113 government service offices, including one in Hudiksvall. With the four new offices announced in the Government Declaration in September 2019, there will be 117 offices in 110 municipalities. In the 2020 budget, the Government has provided funds to establish additional offices. At the moment, preparations are under way for service offices to also provide services regarding Arbetsförmedlingen. At the end of December 2019, the Government commissioned an investigator to propose new locations for service offices. In order to contribute to more efficiency and improved accessibility, the investigator will also propose more public authorities' service activities that can be gathered at the State Service Centre or co-located with the service offices. The investigation will focus on the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten but also CSN, Lantmäteriet, the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Transport Administration. The mission shall be finalized on 16 November 2020. The development of the local government service organisation is therefore continuing.
i-d640527578521f35-264	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. As the Minister for Finance says, we have highlighted this issue several times, both me and Lars Beckman from the Moderates. The reason why we have done this is of course that we are very unhappy with but also disappointed with the decision that has been taken by the Swedish Enforcement Authority. It is a completely substandard basis for decision-making, no impact assessments and at all a very difficult to understand position. The Swedish Enforcement Authority has decided to close local offices in Hudiksvall as well as Mora and Arvika and centralise its operations. The activities of the small local offices are to move to regional cities. No city or municipality without a college or university should be able to have an office located there. It is not that there is a statement about what kind of college or university it should be and what it should provide for education, but it is precisely that it should be a college. In addition, it has been decided that no locality or municipality, but 28 000 inhabitants of the urban area, should also be allowed to have this state activity located there. It also argues that more digitalisation is needed. That could be good. But digitalisation should also mean decentralisation. Of the lack of decision-making documents, one can understand how this has been done. But it can also be seen from the statement made by the Director-General in an interview that they had obtained political approval before taking the decision. It is a decision that affects Hälsingland very hard and economically vulnerable most. Trying to get help on the spot through personal service becomes virtually impossible as the trips become very long and costly. They can either go 16 mil return to Sundsvall or 30 mil return to Gävle. Companies too will find it more difficult to have their money recovered, and it will also be more expensive. In addition to the fact that the government service is withdrawn from Hälsingland and Hudiksvall and the routes become longer, it also becomes an inefficient business. The distance of service, which is a large and extensive activity, becomes so much greater and the journey time so much longer. Local knowledge is also deteriorating and the local and regional labour market is being undermined. In fact, the decision does not even save money. Local costs will be higher, the routes will be much longer and the opportunities to go on service, for example, will be made more difficult and will take much longer. Hudiksvall municipality has tried to get a dialogue with the authority afterwards, because the authority seemed to have forgotten to cooperate before its decision. The dialogue that Hudiksvall municipality has tried to have with the authority has been like talking to a wall. The Social Democrats went to elections to improve services and state presence and to increase the number of jobs in rural areas. But in this case it is exactly the opposite: as I said, the whole of Hälsingland is left without the presence of the authority. That is why I have asked these questions to the Minister for Finance. What analyses have been made of the deteriorating service in Hälsingland and Hudiksvall? Has there been any analysis by the Ministry of Finance of what this will mean for those who need the service? I have also asked the Minister whether she believes that this creates more jobs in rural areas and whether she maintains that the state presence should be reduced in Hälsingland. Unfortunately, Madam President, that seems to be the case. I will have to come back to my next speech in view of the poor basis for decision-making.
i-d640527578521f35-276	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. In this matter, Ulla Andersson and I have worked together and continue to work together. We visited the Kronofogden in Hudiksvall. We sat down with the employees, and we asked what tasks they perform. I'd say we're as good as we can find out if this is a good decision or a bad one. Even when you read the investigation on which the decision is based, you can see that there are major shortcomings. But after sitting down with the employees, you are even more surprised. I believe that anyone who has written the answer of the Minister for Finance, which the Minister for Finance has read out, would have to know what is going on. The practical consequence of the decision is that the person who lives in Hudiksvall will get to an office in Sundsvall and then take a company car and go back to Hälsingland, up to 300 km, and then, when the working day is over, drive back to Sundsvall and after that go home to Hudiksvall. It is bad from the point of view of working time, it is bad from the point of view of employees, it is bad from the environmental and climate point of view and it is difficult to see any savings. In the investigation that exists, it has not been said that you should resign someone. There should be no fewer employees. The only consequence is a deterioration in service for all those living in Hälsingland. It becomes less local knowledge, and it becomes less personal knowledge. From all points of view, things are getting worse. Madam President, I would like Nor will there be any savings. The people who work in Hudiksvall obviously need an office space in Sundsvall. I can inform the Minister of Finance that there are higher building costs in Sundsvall than in Hudiksvall. There's no saving. The Minister of Finance has signed the reply to us, which says, among other things, that one should use the State Service Centre. But those aren't the tasks we're talking about. It is not they who are the majority of the jobs carried out, but it is just as Ulla Andersson says: It is about service and other activities. These could be real estate sales, for example. It was made clear to us during our visit to Hudiksvall that this means, for example, that the person who will bid for a property must get to Sundsvall, because this is happening in Kronofogden's premises. Anyone in need of the services, who is in debt and needs to get in touch with Kronofogden, may not even have the money to get to Sundsvall. That, of course, is why these people are in the register of Kronofogden; they have a very bad economy. In a previous interpellation debate, the Minister of Finance said: I cannot govern the authorities. The government can't determine the office location. Now I have noticed that the government has made an agreement with the Center Party regarding the Employment Service. There it has been told in regulatory letters to the Swedish Public Employment Service that it should be present throughout the country. Obviously, the Minister for Finance and the Government do not have to be unwilled, but can, in regulatory letters, order their authorities to act. If the Minister of Finance thought that this was an important issue and that there should be a good public service in Hälsingland, then a letter of regulation could act exactly as it has done with the Public Employment Service. My simple question is: will the Minister of Finance act?
i-d640527578521f35-288	Madam President, I would like Many of the views expressed by Lars Beckman and Ulla Andersson are comments on things that neither the Swedish Government nor the Swedish Parliament governs. These are the things that the Enforcement Authority itself governs. I think these questions are best placed to be put to the Swedish Enforcement Authority and its Director-General. There are good opportunities for MPs to do this in different ways. For example, people who work in Hudiksvall and will do work there first need to go to the office in Sundsvall and then go back. Of course, whether the work has been organised in this way at the Swedish Enforcement Authority or not should be discussed with the Director-General of the Swedish Enforcement Authority. I can tell you from my experience as Director General of the Swedish Tax Agency that at least we didn't work there. These are two questions. One is about jobs, and the other is about services. In terms of service, there are on average three visits a day at the Kronofogdemyndigheten's office in Hudiksvall. There has been a steady decline in the number of visits. The Swedish Enforcement Authority is now conducting intensive discussions with the service office structure about the possibilities to be included there. It is also one of the things that the person who is going to review the service network is working on. This is one of the authorities that is being looked at about the possibility of being part of the service network. Service offices are located in Hudiksvall, so if it is the case that the Kronofogdemyndigheten will be part of that structure, the service for people in Hudiksvall will not be impaired. On the contrary, it may be improved because the service office has better opening hours than the Kronofogden office in Hudiksvall.
i-d640527578521f35-293	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance cannot control whether the staff in Hudiksvall need to go to Sundsvall in the morning or not – we understand that as well. Nevertheless, the Minister of Finance has approved the decision from the outset of the lack of decision-making documents that have been available – without any impact assessments. I have never heard anyone explain how they have even come to the conclusion that there must be 28 000 inhabitants in a urban area in order for the Kronofogdemyndigheten to have its service there. I have never heard anyone explain why there must be a university in the municipality for the Swedish Enforcement Authority to have its service there. We can see that in Uppsala, where you have a university, the Swedish Enforcement Authority has great trouble recruiting staff. But in Hudiksvall, where you have distance education from the University of Gävle, you have no problem at all with recruiting staff. The basis for the decision simply does not stick together. Sure, you have three to five spontaneous visits a day in Hudiksvall. It's spontaneous visits. But there are also completely different tasks, such as service. There are 250 to 300 cases a week. These are matters that help people who are in debt, because when Kronofogdet gets there they realize that they have big problems. Sometimes it's even so that you cash it out and you can fix a payment plan. Now there will be longer journeys and higher costs. Companies may sometimes even be allowed to refrain from recovery because it becomes more expensive to collect the money needed to pay the debt. In Hudiksvall there are almost as many debtors as in Sundsvall. Nevertheless, it is self-evident that it is Hudiksvall and Hälsingland that should stand without the service from Kronofogden. One can say that it is a bit of a discrimination both against creditors and debtors if such a large landscape as Hälsingland becomes without a bailiff office. Småland, for example, has four offices. Skåne, which is very small to the surface, has three. Halland has two, and Bohuslän has two if you include Gothenburg. Even a small landscape like Blekinge has an office, and I think they should have that. But I also think Hälsingland should have it. I think it would be nice if the Minister of Finance could say as it really is – yes, we have approved this decision, and that is why it will be solid – instead of hiding behind the Enforcement Authority. I also think she could admit that the basis for decision-making might not be so good. We have made several decisions afterwards, trying to get the authorities to realise that they are to be located all over the country. Then perhaps you could ask the Kronofogdemyndigheten to review this decision one more time – or, as Lars Beckman said, look over the regulation letter and give a clear steering signal: Now you will probably have to take another way here. Digitisation may just as well mean decentralisation. In addition, a business that will be more expensive by a move should not be something that a finance minister likes. I think there are so many reasons to change this decision. There is nothing to say that the decision is a good one. Once again, I recommend reading the substandard decision-making documents and the political orientation decisions taken by the government which run counter to this decision. You can change your mind. It could be good, too. It would be great for Hälsingland.
i-d640527578521f35-304	Madam President, I would like If you want there to be a good public service and a government presence throughout Sweden, you should of course act as a minister and government when the authority goes against that will. Or so, Madam President, you think it is a good thing. Then stand up for it, just as Ulla Andersson says! There are 5 200 debtors in Hälsingland who are affected by this decision. In Sundsvall there are about the same number. As far as property sales are concerned, as I mentioned in my speech, there is about one sales opportunity per month in Hudiksvall with four to six sales where you have to be in place. It is clear that there will be a deterioration if you then have to travel to Sundsvall. Nevertheless, I think that the Minister for Finance can express whether she thinks this is a good or a bad decision. Is it in line with the ambitions of the government and its partners that the state should have a high presence? Then stand up for it and say that you think it's good that the Kronofogden leaves Hälsingland and that 5 200 debtors get further to their authority! Say otherwise: No, we do not think it is good that there is a worse state presence. We think it is bad that there will be a worse government service. That's exactly how you acted with the Arbetsförmedlingen. As far as I understand it, there has been a clear signal from the government: you should not close down offices. You're even going to open offices. There's supposed to be a government presence. I would like to know whether the Minister for Finance thinks this is a good or a bad decision.
i-d640527578521f35-310	Madam President, I would like Let me be very clear with Ulla Andersson: this is not a decision that is approved or not approved by the government. The office structure is something that the Swedish Enforcement Authority makes independent decisions about. So is this a decision approved by the government? The answer is no. These are independent decisions of the Director-General. The Director General is best placed to respond to what guidelines the Swedish Enforcement Authority has for its office structure. There are good opportunities for MPs to ask those questions to the authority. It is not the case that a minister is hiding behind this, but this is what the regulations look like. However, the government is clear that authorities, including the Swedish Enforcement Authority, should provide services throughout the country and that there should also be jobs throughout the country. The Swedish Enforcement Authority has also moved 80 years of work from Stockholm to other parts of the country. I would like to point out to Lars Beckman that, in all the years of the alliance government, the Moderates did not interfere with the office structure of individual authorities. We also saw in those years that the number of government jobs in the country was shrinking. Nor is it the case that the Moderates, as I know, propose in the Riksdag that the Riksdag and the Government take over the office structure of individual authorities. Thus Lars Beckman's criticism falls to the ground rather flat. This government has been clear to authorities that there will be both good service and jobs throughout the country. I can also note that the number of government jobs in Gävleborg County, where Hudiksvall is located, has increased by 10% over the last ten years. This is, of course, a welcome development. I also hope, of course, that the discussions now taking place between the Swedish Enforcement Authority and the Swedish Service Centre will come to an end, so that there are opportunities for citizens all over Sweden to take part in the good service from the Swedish Enforcement Authority through the service offices.
i-d640527578521f35-316	Madam President, I would like In the Public Employment Service Regulatory Letter, the Government states that Arbetsförmedlingen should offer equivalent services throughout the country for jobseekers and employers. Arbetsförmedlingen must also ensure a functioning operation throughout the country, it says. It is clear that the government, if it wants to, can govern how authorities should place their services to citizens. And it is true that this decision is politically based. In any case, the Director-General has said so before she went out and told us that this would happen. Guidelines are the Director General's decision, says the Minister for Finance. Yeah, that's it. However, one can think that guidelines are wrong from a government and in a letter of regulation that one does not think that a state activity should be conducted so that towns but 28 000 people in the urban area should be without government service or that municipalities without college should do so. This is not a reasonable decision, and it goes against what the Social Democrats went to elections on. I find it strange that you cannot control better from what you say politically. I'd like to say it's a betrayal. Why should a province like Hälsingland be placed without this service? It affects creditors as well as debtors. It is companies that will have more difficulty getting paid, and it is debtors who will have more difficulty getting rid of their debt. It will increase the costs of the Agency's activities and it will increase the costs for those who depend on the service. It is possible to decentralise activities. That should be done in this case. Hudiksvall and Hälsingland need government service.
i-d640527578521f35-321	Madam President, I would like Yes, there should be good government service from all authorities throughout the country. The enforcement authority is an important authority, and of course there should be good service. It can be given digitally and by telephone, and of course there may also be a need for personal visits. Here the Government's focus on good service throughout the country has been very clear. That is why we have expanded the service offices and are now also looking at the possibility of helping more authorities to become part of that structure. We have also centralised it into more of a coordinated organisation, compared with what it was like in the past, in order to better develop it. Now Ulla Andersson says that this will lead to a worse service in Hudiksvall, but we do not know the outcome yet. If the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten becomes part of the service center organisation, the opening hours can be extended through the service offices, and then there are more opportunities to make spontaneous visits than they do today.
i-d640527578521f35-324	Madam President, I would like Mikael Strandman has asked me about the coordination number. He wonders, among other things, whether the problems reported on coordination numbers do not require urgent action and why a major information and training effort has not been made to explain and explain what a coordination number is. It is clear that knowledge of coordination numbers is very low in society and that it needs to be improved. The Government therefore already decided in 2017 on a commission to the Swedish Tax Agency to take measures to improve knowledge of the coordination numbers of various actors and of individuals. Within the framework of this assignment, the Swedish Tax Agency has, among other things, acquired and taken note of the experience of other authorities and organisations in coordinating numbers. Several measures were also taken by the Swedish Tax Agency to improve and expand the information provided by the agency itself on the coordination number. The Swedish Tax Agency has also held several network meetings together with other authorities where common coordination number issues have been discussed, and efforts have been made to improve today's handling of the numbers. However, the recent debate on the coordination number shows that there is still reason to clarify what a coordination number is and what it is not. Coordination number is an identifier for persons who are not or have been registered in Sweden. A coordination number may be assigned at the request of an authority if that authority needs a number in its activities to avoid confusion or to exchange information about the person with other authorities or organisations. A coordination number does not confer any rights or benefits in itself. It is not the coordination number that justifies payments from welfare systems or grants entitlement to health care in Sweden. The coordination number is not a work permit and does not give the right to enter Sweden or to stay here. Moreover, a coordination number is not sufficient for someone to open a bank account. Co-ordination numbers, on the other hand, fulfil an important function by, among other things, meeting the needs of authorities for an identifier for persons who are not or have been registered in Sweden but who still need to be registered. However, the coordination number system has shortcomings today, and the government has set up an investigation to carry out a major review of the system. But action also needs to be taken sooner than that. The government has therefore recently referred to a memorandum containing proposals aimed at tightening up the coordination number system. This includes the possibility for persons with coordination numbers to be deregistered automatically after five years if a continued need for the number has not been notified. An individual who reports a continued need may then have to report in person. All persons assigned the coordination number before 2016 are proposed to be deregistered at the end of 2021, unless an authority or the individual has notified that there is a continued need for the number. Deregistration should also be possible when there are special reasons for it, for example if a person has been assigned a number on incorrect grounds. It also introduces a requirement that the current contact address of the individual should be reported to the Swedish Tax Agency. The proposals which have now been referred together constitute a re-launch of the entire coordination number system. The restart is carried out in an orderly manner, taking into account the need to avoid confusion and to retain historical information.
i-d640527578521f35-334	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answers, Minister of Finance. However, they show that the government does not have an honest will to address the major problems posed by the casual issuing of the coordination numbers. Coordination numbers were added to enable Swedish authorities to handle foreign citizens in their systems. As long as it was used to enable foreign citizens to fulfil their obligations to the State, the requirement of identity was perhaps not very important. After all, it was about foreign citizens being able to pay taxes and so on. But the moment the co-ordination number holder was able to start using it to assimilate welfare services via other certificates, the requirement for safe identification and a unique identity became very important. In his reply, the Minister of Finance says that the coordination number itself does not give the right to welfare benefits and other rights. No one has said otherwise. As with the social security number, other types of certificates are required in order to benefit from the welfare benefits. So that's a rather strange statement. A social security number does not provide access to, for example, sickness or unemployment benefits. It must always be combined with some other form of certificate. In the same way, it is with coordination numbers. Sweden today has major problems with a parallel society. Foreign citizens are exploited under slave-like conditions, serious companies that comply with laws and regulations are being competed out and, moreover, there are huge welfare frauds, which are one of the reasons why those who really need the support of society do not get it. Coordination numbers are an important component of the chain that has led to the creation of parallel society. The coordination number is a basic foundation for this. The first thing that needs to be done to tackle this Shadowsverige and these welfare frauds is to establish a unique and secure identity of the people who are in and who work in the country. This must be done by personal cancellation, identification and biometric data. Of course, the rest of the links in the chain must also be steered up. For example, authorities must be able to communicate with each other when errors are detected. The authorities must be able to follow up certificates of various kinds, for example, to see that there really is a real job behind the employment certificate, that it is not fake. When an employer is applying for some form of employment support from the Public Employment Service, the Public Employment Service does not even check that there is an annual report of the company, that there really is an activity. All parts of the chain must be controlled. According to the police, representatives of the Swedish Tax Agency and other experts, the so-called re-launch that the Minister of Finance is talking about will have only marginal effects. The majority of the coordination numbers are not issued because an individual contacts the Tax Agency to obtain a coordination number. Instead, an order for a coordination number is made by employers who say that they have hired a person to whom they have to pay their salary and that they therefore request a coordination number from the Swedish Tax Agency. Other authorities are also involved in creating these coordination numbers.
i-d640527578521f35-342	Madam President, I would like If the coordination numbers could completely stop people being exploited under slave-like conditions or welfare fraud, the system should of course be abolished immediately. However, that is not my assessment. Much of the crime that we are seeing today is not due to coordination numbers. There are entirely other things that are behind it. Very much of the crime and exploitation that we see today would continue even if we did not have the coordination number. The assessment is that the welfare fraud resulting from persons having coordination numbers is negligible, according to the Delegation for correct payments. This can be confirmed by the information provided by the Swedish Parliament's investigation service that Försäkringskassan pays 56 million SEK to persons with coordination numbers. So we have to assume that most of it is correct payments. Thus, in relation to other frauds involving welfare systems, this can only be a marginal phenomenon. Requiring personal cancellation in order to get coordination numbers would make it complicated for many authorities, as a not insignificant proportion of the coordination numbers is given to people who are not in Sweden, who have never been in Sweden and who do not intend to be in Sweden either. You may still need to have contact with Swedish authorities. It is the need of authorities for coordination numbers that govern who needs it. With the proposal to restart the system proposed by the government, a majority of the coordination numbers currently available will be permanently deleted from the system. There will be a clear change from what it is today when the coordination number is eternal and the Swedish Tax Agency is not able to delete them if you discover errors. It is strange that it has been able to be that way.
i-d640527578521f35-346	Madam President, I would like Again, the coordination numbers themselves are not the only ones that need to be corrected, but they also need all the other chains in the system. However, we should be clear that 900 000 coordination numbers have been distributed since the turn of the millennium. It is estimated that 45% of these do not have a certain identity. I think it is a bit absurd that we should stand here in this House debating whether to register people and that the country should be able to know who is here and who is allowed to use the system. That should be correct. This should not be the subject of debate here; it is an administrative technicality that should really only work. Here it sounds almost as if we are discussing whether it is important or not that we can determine who the people in Sweden are and whether they have one or more identities. Several experts, representatives of both the police and the Swedish Tax Agency and others, say that the restart you are doing will have nothing but marginal effects. What these experts say needs to be done can be divided into three stages. First of all, we must be able to establish the identity and ensure that it is a unique identity, that a person cannot have ten different identities. Then, of course, the authorities must also be able to talk to each other when they detect a fault in someone. They must not do so today because of the secrecy which criminals exploit. Finally, the authorities must also follow up and carry out post-checks. For example, if a company applies for employment support for a person, an ex-post check must be carried out to see that it is really a real job and not a fake one. What makes all of this possible, the whole parallel society and the Shadowsverige that we have, is the casual attitude of handing out coordination numbers without requiring personal cancellation or the person exhibiting valid identity documents and not having biometric data. My question to the Minister for Finance is: will you make a plan for how to deal with this in the long term? I understand that you can't do this over a short period of time because it's about so many numbers, but you still have to start planning for how to get Swedish censuses in order.
i-d640527578521f35-352	Madam President, I would like This was more than legitimately confused. Mikael Strandman seems to believe that everyone with coordination numbers is in Sweden. It's not like that. He says we need population records and records of who's here. The whole idea with coordination numbers is that they are given to people who are not long-term in Sweden. If you live in Sweden you are registered and you have a social security number. If you have a coordination number you are not permanent in Sweden. That's impossible. If you are permanently in Sweden and live here you are registered and have a social security number. There are, of course, shortcomings in the population register and it needs to be tightened up. The government has been clear about this with regard to the Swedish Tax Agency and has given them new tools and new resources to improve public records. It is important that people are properly registered and that they know who is in the country. Oh, how strange that there are people with unruly identity who have a coordination number! It is not surprising if you know why this is the case. This is because the police need to keep track of people who can be in Sweden or are suspected of crimes in Sweden, but where the identity has not been confirmed. The reason why we have a coordination number with an unruly identity is thus to facilitate the police's work, for example when a person is suspected of a crime in Sweden or is detained in Sweden. If persons with coordination numbers have an uncharacterised identity, this is very clear in the registers, so that they are not in danger of being confused with persons with coordination numbers that are certified. I can fully agree with the need to keep a better track of who receives employment support. However, this has nothing to do with the issue of coordination numbers. I really don't think we should be naive. It sounds like Mikael Strandman believes that if we tighten up the coordination number system, we will be able to fight the shadow society in Sweden. It is important to keep the coordination numbers in order differently from what we have today, but we should not think that this will solve the problem of shadow society. There, quite different resources are needed, such as better control, better cooperation between authorities and increased resources for the whole legal chain. The government is working exactly on this.
i-d640527578521f35-359	Madam President, I would like If coordination numbers can be used to make use of various welfare services, the Minister of Finance must nevertheless agree with me that it is important that the identity of the person in question can be established. A person should also not be able to usurp ten different identities. Our systems are not meant to deal with such a situation. Of course, I understand that a lot of these coordination numbers apply to people who are not in Sweden. But when it comes to those who work in Sweden and can take advantage of welfare benefits and the like, we still need to know who they are and that they have a right to this. I agree that there are a lot of other things that we also need to steer up. For example, as I said earlier, we must ease the confidentiality between authorities. When an error occurs, they must be able to alert another authority. It must also be possible to check much more carefully that there are real companies behind employment when companies apply for different forms of employment support. If you don't control that there is a certain identity of those who work in Sweden, we probably can't solve the other parts of the chain.
i-d640527578521f35-363	Madam President, I would like Of course, we should have the identity of those who have coordination numbers, unless it is a coordination number where the police or other authorities need it for law enforcement purposes, for example. Therefore, authorities have an obligation to verify the identity of persons to whom coordination numbers are requested. This control obviously needs to be tightened up by certain authorities. However, it once again sounds at Mikael Strandman as if coordination numbers give rights to welfare services. They give no rights whatsoever to any welfare services. Of course, all authorities providing healthcare, for example, or the Social Insurance Agency, which pays different subsidies, have an obligation to keep an eye on whether the persons are entitled to receive them, regardless of whether they have a coordination number or a social security number. It is not the case that all people with social security numbers are also entitled to welfare services or various forms of support or benefit. It is, of course, unacceptable if people have multiple identities. Therefore, the Swedish Tax Agency has introduced a new application into its computer systems so that you cannot use the same identity documents to get several different coordination numbers. In addition, the police need to continue their intensive work to combat various forms of crime, including the illegal presence of persons in Sweden.
i-d640527578521f35-366	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked me why I have not put forward any proposals to recall and verify all the coordination numbers in the near future in order to get control of the problem and whether I intend to come back with further and more effective measures in the future to stop the abuse of the coordination number. I welcome the recent debate on the coordination number and the questions that Niklas Wykman has now asked. It is clear that the knowledge of coordination numbers is very low in society, and there is therefore reason to clarify what a coordination number is and what it is not. Coordination number is an identifier for persons who are not or have been registered in Sweden. A coordination number may be assigned at the request of an authority if that authority needs a number in its activities to avoid confusion or to exchange information about the person with other authorities or organisations. A coordination number does not confer any rights or benefits in itself. It is not the coordination number that justifies payments from welfare systems or grants entitlement to health care in Sweden. The coordination number is not a work permit and does not give the right to enter Sweden or to stay here. Moreover, a coordination number is not sufficient for someone to open a bank account. Co-ordination numbers, on the other hand, fulfil an important function by, among other things, meeting the needs of authorities for an identifier for persons who are not or have been registered in Sweden but who still need to be registered. This need exists even if there is uncertainty about the person's identity, for example when a person is to be registered in the suspicion register or in the tax database. For about half of all coordination numbers there is uncertainty about the identity of the person and the need for these so-called unruly coordination numbers by the authorities is therefore not insignificant. However, it is clear from the population register which numbers have been certified and which have not been verified. However, the system currently has shortcomings, and it is necessary to tighten up the rules in order for our registers to contain accurate and up-to-date information. Coordination numbers shall be correctly issued and persons who have been wrongly assigned a number shall be deregistered. The Ministry of Finance has therefore recently referred to a memorandum with proposals aimed at tightening up the coordination number system. This includes the possibility for persons with coordination numbers to be deregistered automatically after five years if a continued need for the number has not been notified. An individual who reports such a continued need may then have to report in person. All persons assigned the coordination number before 2016 are proposed to be deregistered at the end of 2021 unless an authority or the individual has notified that there is a continued need for the number. However, cancellation should also be possible sooner than that. The Swedish Tax Agency is proposed to decide on cancellation if there are special reasons for it, for example if a person has been assigned a number on incorrect grounds. It also introduces a requirement that the current contact address of the individual should be reported to the Swedish Tax Agency. The proposals which have now been referred together constitute a re-launch of the entire coordination number system. The restart is carried out in an orderly manner, taking into account the need to avoid confusion and to retain historical information. Finally, I would like to mention that the government has also set up an investigation to review the entire coordination number system. The investigation will report its mission no later than 1 April 2021.
i-d640527578521f35-377	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a number of problems, challenges and major and minor crises to deal with. I am the first to be humbled by the fact that, in this situation, a finance minister is both stressed and under pressure. Magdalena Andersson has been responsible for Sweden since the end of 2014. It was not that Sweden was then a perfect and problem-free country, but the problems have since Magdalena Andersson became Finance Minister accelerated at a high rate. Some of that, Madam President, naturally depends on things that have happened in the outside world beyond the influence of Magdalena Andersson. Much, however, is due to the fact that Magdalena Andersson has not acted or has acted late. On the question of coordination numbers, it is difficult to believe in the presentation of the Minister for Finance, i.e. that these numbers would have no bearing on access to welfare services and that they would be more or less harmless. This is difficult to believe in in the light of the reality we have, Madam President, and the reporting that everyone can take part in the media where police, customs and other authorities say that one and the same person can have several different identities and that hundreds of thousands of people have an unruly identity. If these numbers did not have any significance for welfare services and access to Swedish society or the possibility to gain advantages in and exploit Swedish society through crime and fraud, it is very strange that there is such a high demand for these numbers. Why do so many people want the numbers? Why is it traded and cheated with the numbers if they have no value? It is quite clear that the Minister of Finance does not see the reality as it is when she claims that it is good that we are having this debate because there is a lack of facts. The Minister for Finance has clearly stated in the media that I and others who believe that we need to steer the system more carefully lack knowledge and so on. Madam President, I would like It is not so credible that it is our knowledge that is lacking. It is quite clear that these numbers are used in various ways to gain benefits, commit crimes against people or in different ways exploit Swedish society in a way that is not intended. This creates great uncertainty. Madam President, I would like What is perhaps the most against the Finance Minister's own rhetoric is that she – although these numbers are said not to be so important, does not matter and does not matter – chooses to come forward with proposals that we have argued for and does a tightening of the system. It doesn't make any sense. My overall assessment is that the Swedish people are very tired of that kind of political rhetoric. Here it is quite clear that we have a problem, and I am the first to praise the Minister for Finance for the fact that parts of the problem are now being dealt with. I want this debate to make an offer to remedy the whole problem. Two things are clearly needed in the coordination number system: on the one hand, that you do a real restart and verify all the identities that exist in the system, and on the other hand that you make sure that it is not possible to manipulate and cheat. Some kind of biometrics should be introduced into the system so that the same person cannot have several numbers and so that, as far as possible, one knows who has which number. Then do not face it, the Minister for Finance, that there are exceptional cases and that there are people over whom the police need control and so on! After all, nearly 1 million such numbers are distributed in different ways, and not all of them are of that kind. I am extending a hand here today to introduce biometrics into the system. Furthermore, we shall verify all the numbers and not just the more than two thirds proposed by the Minister for Finance.
i-d640527578521f35-388	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by pointing out that about half of the coordination numbers are unsteerous. It is clear in the registers whether a coordination number is certified or unsteered. The unruly take coordination numbers are mainly requested by, for example, the police who need them for people who are suspected of crimes in Sweden. Niklas Wykman says people want these numbers. Then I would just like to emphasise that it is the authorities that are asking for coordination numbers and no others. However, it is important that we have control of our registers, as I also point out, and that is why it is important that we reboot the coordination numbers. This means that all coordination numbers will automatically be deregistered if it is not the case that they are requested to remain. If, by completely abolishing the coordination number system, we were to overcome the problems we have in Sweden with people working black, using our welfare systems and services and engaging in serious organised crime, I would be the first to advocate it. However, my assessment is that many of the problems currently associated with the coordination numbers do not originate from the coordination numbers. Even without coordination numbers, people would try in various ways to cheat on welfare systems, enjoy welfare services they are not entitled to, work in black and engage in other criminal activities. We need to focus on what is at the heart of the problem. That is why we need better coordination between law enforcement authorities, and we need to ensure that the police and the whole legal chain have all the resources they need. I fully share Niklas Wykman's view that it is unreasonable for people to have different identities. The identification of those who have confirmed coordination numbers also needs to be tightened up. Here, the Swedish Tax Agency has worked with other authorities to tighten up its control. A new application has been introduced so that it will not be possible to use the same identity document for several different coordination numbers. It is a work that I would like our authorities to develop in order to assess what they think is the most effective way of moving forward.
i-d640527578521f35-394	Madam President, I would like There is an expression that is to do something with the stubbornness of a fool. It usually means claiming something even though you're convinced it's the wrong thing to do. When the Minister of Finance insists that the coordination number is something that is not desirable for the individual to have, that it is something that authorities issue, it can be said that she claims it with the stubbornness of a fool. If it was just something that governments want to distribute and that people don't want, then there wouldn't be a market to buy such numbers. Then there would be no people who would like to usurp 10 to 20 such issues. After all, it is because these numbers are used in a way that they may not be supposed to be used in and enjoy a legitimacy that is perhaps greater than the legislators thought they are attractive. If you do not understand it or want to take it to heart, it is of course difficult to face the problems with sufficient force. The numbers are thus used in a different way than it is intended, which means that they have a greater value than it is intended. This in turn means that criminals and others who want to exploit society, or just acquire a place in Swedish society that they are not really entitled to, want to get that kind of number. Of course, if you do not want to take it to heart, it is difficult to deal with the problem. On the other hand, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson is quite right that better order of coordination numbers does not solve Sweden's problems. Sweden has many problems, and Sweden has difficult problems. We read about youths who are victims of quite unreasonable robberies. We read about pensioners who, even though they've worked their whole lives, don't get their finances together. We have a very large number of people who have come to Sweden who are very far from the labour market. We have major shortcomings in welfare systems. We have growing medical queues. We have the lowest per capita growth in the European Union. We soon have the highest unemployment rate in the European Union despite the fact that we would have the lowest. Sweden has massive problems, and these problems have grown very quickly over the years when Magdalena Andersson has been Minister of Finance. Of course, this is not solved simply by creating order in the population register or the coordination number system. No one believes or claims it. But having many problems and difficult problems is no argument for not trying to solve any of them. On the contrary, reform packages should be rolled out on reform packages and measures on measures, austerity and efforts to solve the problems they face. It goes without saying, Madam President, that Sweden's problems are not solved by a quick fix or by doing one thing. It is reducing for the government and for Sweden that we have a Minister of Finance who claims that the opposition or anyone else claims that this would be the case. It goes without saying that this is not the case. Sweden is facing a huge need for tough policy measures and priorities. But, Madam President, if you do not have the most basic systems in order – coordination numbers, population records – it is difficult to solve other problems. When we live in a country where we no longer know who is who, where you cannot prove your identity or where you can certify that you have multiple identities, it becomes difficult for the welfare to keep track. Then it will be difficult to keep track of the benefit systems. In the end, it will be difficult to rent out premises, run businesses and create jobs, because you do not know who is who. We last saw the day before yesterday's report that 200 000 people are considered to be registered in an incorrect or perhaps even criminal manner. Here we need to create order, Magdalena Andersson, not because it solves all the problems but because it is a prerequisite for solving many of the problems that Sweden has and that the Finance Minister has partly caused and now needs to deal with.
i-d640527578521f35-402	Madam President, I would like As far as the coordination numbers are concerned, it actually sounds like me and Niklas Wykman are in complete agreement. The reason why I so often repeat what coordination numbers are not and that they do not give these rights is precisely because there seems to be a widespread misunderstanding of what the coordination numbers are. That is why I take every opportunity at all to inform as many as possible of what coordination numbers are not. What I am perhaps most concerned about is there are small employers who now have people with coordination numbers employees who believe that this means that these people also have the right to stay and work in Sweden and who thus actually commit an illegal act and risk being sentenced for it. I think it is extremely important here that we use every opportunity to disseminate information on coordination numbers. That is why, with the stubbornness of a fool, I repeat this time and again – not because I believe there are no misconceptions but to clear up all misconceptions. That is why I also welcome this debate and the writings that have been on the coordination numbers. I also share Niklas Wykman's view that we need to have better control in our registers with regard to both the population register, where we have also added registers, and the coordination numbers. That is why we are proposing a reboot of the whole system. We need to have order in our registers in Sweden. The problems of incorrect censuses are also a real problem in terms of our welfare payments, for the vast majority of welfare payments from the Social Insurance Agency are settlement-based and are based on population accounts. However, this has nothing to do with the coordination numbers because by definition you are not registered if you have a coordination number. The payments from our welfare systems to people with coordination numbers are SEK 50 million. It is not, therefore, where the major fraud against welfare systems in Sweden takes place, but on completely different routes.
i-d640527578521f35-409	Madam President, I would like Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson is warmly welcome to the Tax Committee and will also come there on another occasion to talk about the population register, where we also have serious problems. Madam President, I would like As I said at the beginning, I welcome what the government is now doing. One can always say, especially in opposition, that it should have done more and done it earlier and so on. But I think it is good, what the government is now doing – that it is gaining more control over the coordination numbers. Perhaps I can surprise the Minister for Finance by saying that the measures that the government is now taking, if implemented in the way the government describes, will solve the problems we have in the long term and prevent us from getting into our current situation again. What the government is not doing in its proposal is dealing with all the problems we have today. Some 300 000 such issues will be subject to considerable uncertainty for many years even after the implementation of the Government's proposal. There is also a serious deficiency, and that is that one does not introduce biometrics into the system, that is, one does not ensure that a person can never in any way have more than one identity through iris prints, fingerprints and other things that we have in our passports. It would not be unreasonable for the coordination numbers to have as much information as possible as we have in our passports. This is not always or every time possible for a person who stays one day in Sweden and has to pay taxes and so on, absolutely not, but you can design the legislation in a good way. I am therefore handing one hand to the Minister for Finance. Let us make this kind of biometric information available and take hold not only in most coordination numbers but also in the 285 000 numbers that are not being checked. It is my call to the Minister for Finance to do this. Otherwise, I wish you a nice weekend.
i-d640527578521f35-415	Madam President, I would like The strong measures taken by the government to create better control in our coordination number registers do not seem to me to be a final stop, but rather as part of a work on the coordination numbers that will need to be continued. There is also an investigation that reviews the entire coordination number system. The introduction of biometrics is an issue that we have not looked at in detail. There would need to be a thorough analysis of what that would mean for our authorities and the needs of our authorities. However, it is an issue that I am prepared to discuss further with other issues. At the same time, it is important to say that the administrative resources we spend on tightening up the coordination system must also be weighed against what is most effective in combating various forms of crime – in relation to spending more money on the police, for example. This is a balance that we constantly need to do when we work on these issues: Where is it most effective to put the money? Some of the proposals made by the Moderates in the debate are not, at first sight, the obvious most effective way of using resources when we want to achieve what I am sure we have as a common interest, namely to fight with full force all forms of crime. Have a nice weekend!
i-d640527578521f35-419	Madam President, I would like Ilona Szatmari Waldau has asked me how I intend to ensure that students with disabilities receive the support they need to be able to study at college and universities. The Swedish university should be welcoming to anyone who has the ability to pass higher education studies, regardless of their background, gender or disability. It is therefore positive that more and more students are taking part in the support available. Universities and higher education institutions may allocate 0.3 per cent of their educational grants for special educational support, including sign language interpretation, for students with disabilities. In addition to this, universities can apply to Stockholm University for grants for costs exceeding 0.3 per cent of the grant. A total of SEK 90 million was paid out in 2019 for educational support in the form of note support, sign language interpretation, mentor support and supervision. This is the maximum amount that has been paid out so far for this purpose. At each university there is at least one coordinator who supports students with disabilities. In addition to the pedagogical support, students can also get help with adapted course literature from the Swedish Agency for Accessible Media. There are 27 million k ronor per year set aside for this purpose. In addition, there is also special educational support from the Special Educational School Authority, SPSM, that universities can apply for. The grant covers just under SEK 6 million per year and is offered to students with severe disabilities or mental or neuropsychiatric disabilities. The Authority has raised the issue of the design of the support in dialogue with the Ministry of Education. The Swedish Council for Higher Education, UHR, has, according to its instructions, the task of combating discrimination and in other ways promoting equal rights and opportunities within the university. Therefore, UHR 2018 was commissioned to disseminate good examples of measures to increase accessibility and combat discrimination against students with disabilities. I am very keen that the system should work as well as possible for those students with disabilities who are applying for support. For the government, it is important that more people with different types of disabilities seek higher education and that they receive the support they need during their studies to complete their studies. It is both about the individual student's right to study and about the importance of taking advantage of all people in the labour market. This is therefore an important issue for us, and I will therefore be closely monitoring developments in this area.
i-d640527578521f35-425	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Minister Ernkrans for the answer. My question was: How does the Government intend to ensure that students with disabilities receive the support they need to be able to study at college and universities? The answer I have received does not really answer the question. We are told what the government wants and what is being done today and that the Government is closely monitoring developments in this area. It is of course good that the Government and the Government agree with me that it is important that people with different types of disabilities seek higher education and that they receive the support they need during their studies in order to complete their studies. But how do the government and the government ensure that everyone receives the support they need, in addition to the mission to the UHR? And what does it really mean to closely monitor developments in this area? We already know, for example, that the funds available to the Special Educational School Authority are not enough. The Authority has been forced to set one roof per hour. It does not cover the cost, nor does it grant all applications. We also know that there are shortcomings in our colleges in terms of both physical and mental accessibility. Students who need adapted literature, such as those with visual impairment, sometimes find it difficult to obtain the literature and receive additional costs. The premises are not always adapted to the needs of the students; this may, for example, apply to more secluded exam opportunities. The Government mentions the support that universities themselves can use, 0.3 percent of their funding, and that more can be applied for through Stockholm University. As the Government itself mentioned, the pressure on Stockholm University has increased, and more money is being paid out. Although all the support is good, more students will be eligible for the support. The number is increasing sharply, so 0.3% of the funding will now be enough for a great many more. The Government will let me know what the ceiling for Stockholm University's extra funding can be. We are already seeing trends that the money is not enough and that the students do not receive the support to which they should be entitled. A person who, due to his disability, is studying at a slower rate may receive study funding for this. This means a larger loan debt than a person who is studying at a full rate receives for the same education. Those who have studied at a slower pace may have the additional loan written off, but since they seek it afterwards there is no guarantee of this. I believe that this too, the risk of higher indebtedness, can be an obstacle to those who want to study. Between 2008 and 2018, the number of students who received support for mental disability increased from 700 to over 6,000. It is great that more and more students get the right to support, but the number of people with disabilities at our universities has probably not increased. Those who receive support today are those who previously studied without support and perhaps in many cases failed. A dropout is a failure for the student but also for the university and society. Probably it also costs society, and not just the student, quite a lot.
i-d640527578521f35-435	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I am very well aware of the challenges that students with disabilities can face in their studies. It is important that the university is welcoming to all those who can pass higher education studies and that there is good accessibility and support efforts at the higher education institutions. I chose to answer the question of how we ensure that this works by providing a very comprehensive answer about all the support measures available at our universities and colleges. This is something that is much broader than the important support that SPSM can provide. Having said that, however, I would also like to say that the Special Educational School Authority, the SPSM, has not yet submitted its budget. They do so on 1 March, and when that is done we will of course look at it. The issue of giving money in the budget is a little early on, but that does not mean that it is not important to talk about all students' access to colleges and universities. I also want to be careful that universities and colleges actively promote and broaden recruitment to the university – they will do so in addition to ensuring that they meet students with disabilities in a wise and good way and that these students get a good study time and manage their education. Society simply needs to take advantage of all the talents that exist, that are willing and able to take on higher education. Also, to meet the challenges we face in terms of future skills provision, we need to overcome much of the inverse recruitment that exists in higher education. I have given UKÄ a mandate to evaluate how universities work with broader recruitment. It is an analysis that I look forward to taking part in in order to get inspiration for new measures to ensure that we have colleges and universities that are accessible and welcoming to everyone. It would be interesting to know what the MPs Szatmari Waldau and the Left Party want to do to broaden the recruitment of students to higher education.
i-d640527578521f35-441	Madam President, I would like I am pleased with the response I have received from the Government regarding what we are doing today. There was the interpellation response very comprehensive. But when there are shortcomings, we also need to talk about how we can fix them. I do not think that we are entirely at odds about the importance of remedying the shortcomings. Nor do we disagree on the importance of broadening recruitment to higher education. Breaking the inverse recruitment to higher education is one of the heart issues of the Left Party in the field of higher education. Not only do disabilities play a role there. Ethnic background, economic factors, class and gender also influence whether you apply for higher education or not. This affects what opportunities you have in academia and what programmes you are looking for. This affects whether you apply for doctoral studies, and it affects what opportunities you have to work in academia in a profession. We need to work on a broad front outside and within academia to break the skewed recruitment and get more – both people with disabilities and others – to apply for higher education. If we are to be able to specifically increase the number of students with disabilities at the university, it is not only necessary to take measures within the university, which are probably so important. Major measures are also needed in primary and secondary schools. We know that many young people with neuropsychiatric disabilities in particular are called home sitters– I don't think that's a good word. They do not go to school because the school is not able to handle their specific disability. They choose to stay home. It's an incredible challenge. How will these people be able to apply to the university when they are not in high school? Maybe they don't even go to elementary school. This leads to how the university test is designed to suit people with disabilities. There are some challenges with the university test when it comes to how people with disabilities can do it and when they can do it. I will actually come back to my question. It is, as I said, great that it has been given assignments to UKÄ and that the Government is waiting for that answer. But what thoughts does the Government have today about how to achieve a larger recruitment base when it comes to the university and how to ensure that everyone in the university has exactly the same conditions to manage their studies?
i-d640527578521f35-447	Madam President, I would like As I said, I am aware of the challenges that students with disabilities can face in their studies. I think it is important for the government to be able to put in place a lot of new measures, not least in order to strengthen the opportunity for people with disabilities to gain the knowledge they are entitled to throughout the education chain. It is also about the possibility of moving on to higher education. An important key and part of this is that we can now work together in the middle of Swedish politics to strengthen NPF skills in our teacher education. This is something that our teacher students should gain a much greater knowledge and knowledge of, for it is something that you can benefit from in every classroom. I am also very pleased that we can continue to work to ensure that we have higher education throughout the country. We can continue with distance trainings of various kinds. In answer to the question from Ilona Szatmari Waldau, as I said, I really wanted to show the breadth of the efforts that exist to support people with disabilities so that they can take on board and carry out their studies in higher education and universities. It was also a way for me to show the government and my continued commitment to this issue. It is very important that we have higher education institutions and universities that are welcoming to anyone who can pass their higher education studies, and that regardless of gender, background or disability. I think that the mission that has been given to UKÄ on broader recruitment is important. I also think that the work done by the Swedish Council for Higher Education is important. They have the task of combating discrimination and in other ways promoting equal rights and opportunities within the university. Among other things, they were tasked with disseminating good examples of measures implemented in order to reduce discrimination and increase accessibility. The good examples are gathered in the report A college for all, which came last autumn. There are some sixty good examples. It covers everything from information activities for students to skills development of staff. The collection also contains examples of how organisation, procedures and technology can be developed to increase accessibility. It would be interesting to know whether the honourable Member has had time to take note of that report. I think that there is a great deal that our colleges and universities can continue to develop in order to better meet students with disabilities.
i-d640527578521f35-453	Madam President, I would like I have taken note of that report. We know that there are shortcomings that need to be addressed. These are the ones we are debating here today. Maybe we haven't really found those measures. I would therefore like to say that the Left Party in a motion has proposed the creation of a study that has an overall perspective on the issue of accessibility to universities and colleges for people with disabilities. We will see how the majority will stand up to that motion when it is discussed in this House. And in our draft budget, which unfortunately fell, there are proposals to add SEK 1 000 extra to each full-year student to increase the budget of higher education institutions. It had also increased the possibility of making special efforts for students with disabilities. It is just like in basic education: If you have more resources for regular education, there are usually fewer people who need extra efforts. An investment in each student can then mean that fewer people need efforts. It's just like it is in primary and secondary school: the less money you have per student, the more people need extra effort. That is also why we in the Left Party are now making an extra effort on welfare with more money for the municipalities, so that they do not have to make cuts in school. School cuts always affect those who have the greatest problems reaching the targets.
i-d640527578521f35-455	Madam President, I would like Let me be clear that the Swedish university should be welcoming and a possible choice for anyone who has the ability to pass higher education studies, regardless of background, gender or disability. This is an important starting point for me as a social democrat and as the responsible minister of state. I therefore very much welcome the fact that more and more students are taking part in the support that is available. The Government annually allocates special funds for students with disabilities to receive support in their studies. I am very keen that this system should work as well as possible for students with disabilities. I intend to give this my continued commitment. It is important that we take advantage of all the talents that exist and that have the opportunity and the will and love to study in higher education. We need them in our stronger society.
i-d640527578521f35-457	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me how the government's work environment strategy with a zero vision against fatal accidents and with the prevention of workplace accidents is compatible with the employer's inability to influence the number of wolves in an area, i.e. the working environment, and what measures, for example, through legislation or through the control of the Swedish Work Environment Agency I intend to take to improve the preventive work against workplace accidents related to predators for people working in the forest. The Government's strategy on health and safety at work for the years 2016 – 2020 aims to give the work environment a long-term focus, while at the same time containing concrete measures in three priority areas. Overall, the strategy thus creates a platform for future work and policy development in this area. The Government has commissioned Statskontoret to conduct an evaluation of the strategy as a policy instrument. The result shall form a basis for the Government's development of a new strategy on health and safety at work. The employer is responsible for the working environment. The basic requirements for the employer's responsibility for the work environment and work environment are laid down in the legislation. However, in addition to legislation and its supervision, the social partners have important tasks to promote a good working environment. A sustainable predator policy from 2013 states that wolf and other large predators should have a favourable conservation status while keeping domestic animals is not significantly impeded and socio-economic considerations should be taken into account. Both humans and predators should be able to live in Sweden. Therefore, it is important that we do what we can at all levels to make it work as well as possible. We must have a policy that protects both man and animal. The systematic work environment management shall be carried out in all workplaces as an ongoing process, where the central activities consist of examining the work environment, assessing risks, taking action and then monitoring the effectiveness of the measures. Agriculture, forestry and fisheries are accident-stricken industries. These sectors are characterised by the fact that many work alone and that many accidents occur in connection with the use of machinery. Preventive work environment management is important. The necessary legislation on health and safety at work is in place.
i-d640527578521f35-464	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. This interpellation I wrote after we had had a round table discussion in Vallsta, Hälsingland. It is north of Dalälven, in the middle of Hälsingland. There are now major problems with, among other things, a wolf pack of 14 individuals moving in a limited area. Madam President, I would like In Gävleborg there are 90 of Sweden's surveyed wolves. In fact, there was a figure today that found 329 wolves. The inventory continues for another two or three weeks, so we don't know exactly how many wolves there are. But at least it's more than 329. At this round table, entrepreneurs raised a real problem, and that is what I have written an interpellation about. At this meeting were Karl-Karl-Erik Olsson among others. He is a forest manager in Galven and has worked in the forest all his life. He's doing a collaboration in the woods, where there's bad cell phone coverage. He has contacted the Swedish Work Environment Authority and asked how he can protect himself. It's a little complicated when it's a one-man entrepreneur. Then, of course, you have a work environment responsibility for yourself. This meeting also involved other entrepreneurs who have employees. They've done a risk analysis, taken responsibility as an employer, just as the government talks about, and assessed the risk. But then it stops. This risk analysis includes the danger of cooperation when there are so many predators on a limited surface. What should you do as an employer? That is what I have asked the Minister about. The short answer from the Minister is then: a need for legislation on health and safety at work is in place. But it does not help the female entrepreneur with employees as there is a real threat that an incident with a wolf can occur. It's serious. It's not a threat, it's a risky situation. At this point, you have to think about it. In this context, there are obviously two pieces of legislation that are opposed to each other. It is the legislation that came about after a decision on the predator bill. We Moderates then said that we cannot have so much wolf on a limited surface. We have to cut the number of individuals in Sweden to 170. Then there will be a completely different predatory pressure. But it is also the legislation on health and safety at work, that is, how can I as an entrepreneur take responsibility for my employees? I had a long conversation with an entrepreneur who asked, "What are we going to do?" I can't even send a hunter to watch my staff, because it's not safe for the hunter to shoot. However, the government must take responsibility for the working environment. And I would appreciate it if the Minister could consult the Minister for Rural Development and take a concerted approach to these issues, which will allow employees to feel safe and that the employer can take responsibility for their work environment. A principal at a school in Kilafors solved it by banning excursions. She says she can't take responsibility for either the children or the employees. In Kilafors, therefore, children are not allowed to go on a forest trip, because they feel that the risk is so great. If this had happened in Nacka, Niklas Svensson had of course flown with his helicopter and driven live broadcast that the children cannot go out. But now this is happening in Kilafors, and it is glistening in the local newspaper in Hälsingland. But there will be no national news. The Minister therefore says that the necessary legislation on health and safety at work is in place. But how can these entrepreneurs take responsibility for their staff?
i-d640527578521f35-474	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that I very much welcome Lars Beckman's commitment to a zero vision against fatal accidents. It is gratifying that the Moderates now seem to understand that this is a very important issue for Sweden and for our future. No one should have to die on their job. But when the Riksdag decided on a zero vision against fatal accidents, the Moderates voted against. On any issue relating to health and safety at work or labour market policy, the Moderates consistently vote against and cut resources. I therefore find it truly gratifying, Lars Beckman, that there is now such a great and strong commitment on your part to these issues. Part of the government's work on a zero vision of fatal accidents is that we have had a collective government initiative, in which, among others, Minister of Rural Affairs Jennie Nilsson, as mentioned by Lars Beckman, brought together the parties – both employers and trade unions in these areas – to discuss precisely what are the major problems in agriculture and forestry, and also in fisheries, in terms of the working environment. Madam President, I would like I myself come from Norrbotten and belong to a family that has a great habit with the forest – as a forest owner and as a hunter – and who likes to stay out in nature. There are always risks when you are in the forest, and we will of course take it very seriously. At the same time, when Lars Beckman highlights these issues, I would like to emphasise that I have taken note of information from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Their last documented case, when wild wolves in Sweden injured a man, occurred in the 19th century. I think we should do this very seriously. But we, as politicians in this House, must not exaggerate or create unnecessary concern. Then, of course, we will make sure that we do everything we can to ensure that people and nature can work together in a good way.
i-d640527578521f35-479	Madam President, I would like I can reassure the Minister for Health and Safety at Work that the Moderates have always taken fatal accidents at work seriously. If you are interested, please visit the Swedish Work Environment Authority's website and look at the development of fatal accidents in the work environment. After all, fatal accidents fell during the years of the alliance, but from 2015 they are unfortunately increasing. However, I am absolutely convinced that the Minister also wants zero fatal accidents at work. I am not going to say that it is rude to Karl-Karl-Erik, and I understand that the Minister is not a big deal when she quotes the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. But perhaps I would like the Minister to go to Hälsingland and have a round table with Karl-Karl-Erik and other entrepreneurs. Sit down with the entrepreneur who runs a gymnasium for horse sports! I am quite sure that after that round table the Minister would be a little more humble in referring to the 19th century. I share the view that there has been no fatal accident, but the work environment on this issue is about preventing it from happening. We haven't had a situation with 90 wolves on such a concentrated surface since the 19th century. We haven't had a situation with 14 wolves moving on a very small surface. Companies are now signalling in the media, in round-table discussions with politicians and in contacts with the Swedish Work Environment Authority that they must take responsibility for the work environment. They want to prevent an accident. I therefore regret that the Government is saying that the health and safety legislation that is needed is in place. Either the Government is right, or the Government is wrong. If the Government is right, the Government must of course engage in a dialogue with its authority – state that there is legislation and review how it can be applied in a way that gives entrepreneurs the right to protect their employees. What happens, for example, if you have a protection hunter in place and the hunter shoots because there is an incident where a wolf gets too close to the employees? Can the Government guarantee that the hunter will not be prosecuted, that the weapon will not be seized or that nothing else will happen? That is what these issues are about, and it is important that the government takes a holistic approach here. I think the Minister should go and meet Karl-Karl-Erik and others. I think it's important. Then it is especially so in the case of a self-employed person; I have respect for that. It is perhaps easier to create protection legislation for employees. But even the companies that have employees say that this is a real problem and that they must be allowed to protect their staff. I would like the Minister to have a slightly more offensive attitude than to ralli and say that there have been no accidents since the 19th century and that the necessary legislation is in place. I believe that much more is needed in this emergency situation. One solution would, of course, be for the government to say that we must reduce the number of wolves sharply, that is to say, join the Moderate line. In the meantime, however, we must give companies the opportunity to protect their employees.
i-d640527578521f35-485	Madam President, I would like The question Lars Beckman asked in his interpellation was, among other things, how we can ensure a good working environment for those who work alone in the forest. Now it seems more difficult for us to debate the wolves. As Minister for Labour, I think it is important, even from the point of view of interpellation, to take the debate back to what we are discussing. The question asked by Lars Beckman, how we ensure a good working environment for those who work alone in the forest, is extremely important. The workplace accidents that occur in the forest are usually associated with tree felling, and those kinds of dangerous events and incidents in the forest are very often linked to machines. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has an important role there. These include, for example, regulation and inspections, but also communication efforts. The Swedish Work Environment Authority points out that there are special requirements for communication with the outside world when it comes to cooperation in the forest. The supervisor or co-worker should know where in the forest the person works, and this applies of course also as a private person – when relatives are out on a collaboration in the forest one should think about having a contact and know where this person is. A person working in storm-stricken forests must not work alone; he or she must have direct contact with colleagues or other persons. Co-operation shall be prohibited in the following operations in the forest: clearing of stormy or fire-damaged forests, felling of trees and reprocessing under difficult conditions and on electrical lines, tree work with chainsaws from work platform or by climbing, and felling of trees with a strong slope or large crown overhang. There are a number of minimum requirements for planning and preparation for a collaboration that the Swedish Work Environment Authority informs about and which I think it is important that we also highlight. As I was in the past, it's about always telling someone where in the forest you are – it can be a supervisor or a family member – and marking out on a map where you have your place of work, as well as the route there and back. It is also necessary to review procedures for coordinates and alerting in emergency situations. Lars Beckman raised the issue of mobile coverage, and you may need to consider whether there are other ways to arrange communication – such as emergency radio or personal contact. You should always carry transport vehicles in the forest and make sure to turn it in the right direction so that you can easily get into the vehicle and get out of there if need arises. You should of course always use correct and complete protective equipment, especially when working with chainsaws, for example. This kind of information, as well as avoiding going into the forest without finding out how to ensure your own safety and health, is what lays the foundation for a safety culture for those who are out in the forest working. That must be the most important thing. As far as legislation is concerned, I would like to say briefly that so far we have not received any demands or expectations for new legislation. I am, of course, sensitive to whether there are problems with the legislation and I am very happy to listen to the entrepreneurs and their organisations. However, in the talks we have had so far with the parties, this has not come to light as an important request.
i-d640527578521f35-494	Madam President, I would like No, the interpellation was about employers who cannot affect the number of wolves in an area. That is what the interpellation is about, and that is what I am talking about. I was also born and raised in Norrbotten, and I have spent a lot of time in Överkalix, where my grandfather had forest. I am therefore, if not well-informed, at least reasonably familiar with risky work. I would like to return to the round table in Vallsta. Karl-Karl-Erik told me the same thing there that he told in Alla Hälsingland. He tells us about the alarm box he always has with him when he's out in the woods, how he works all by himself and how he sometimes is without cell phone coverage. He points out that in his job as a self-employed worker in forestry, he is particularly vulnerable, and then he says: I do not want anything to happen, therefore I have to do everything I can to try to shed light on this issue. ..................................................... "All I can to try to shed light on this issue" says Karl-Karl-Erik. I know he's contacted the Swedish Work Environment Agency. Other entrepreneurs in Hälsingland who have several employees have contacted the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Unfortunately, they do not receive any support. Unfortunately, they do not feel that the issue is being taken seriously. It is possible that the Swedish Work Environment Authority's employees also think that there has been no accident since the 1800s and that they therefore do not have to care; I do not know. But the situation we see in Sweden now – the situation these employers are experiencing in Hälsingland – has never happened before. We have not had 90 wolves at the same point since the 19th century. We haven't had a pack of 14 young males moving in the area where the employees are. It is a completely new situation we are seeing right now, and it requires some sort of solution. That is where I hope the Minister will act. Otherwise I wish you a nice weekend and a happy Valentine's Day!
i-d640527578521f35-500	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that Lars Beckman is showing his great commitment to health and safety at work and thereby also to labour market policy. Work environment legislation is in place. What we need to ensure is that we have a safety culture and that we are aware of the risks that exist, no matter what work we have and whatever the work to be done. This is of course particularly important in the forest, not least in the case of cooperation. The Swedish Work Environment Authority is tasked with informing, providing advice and communicating what is important to bear in mind. My message here today is that we have the legislation in place. We need to be sure to follow the various advice and recommendations that exist. Humans and animals should be able to live together in harmony in a wise way. There are challenges with our predators, and we need to ensure that we avoid risks that exist in different ways when you are out in the woods. Finally, I would like to thank Lars Beckman for this interpellation debate and wish you a happy Valentine's Day and a nice weekend for all of you.
