i-d2b2a32237dd809f-4	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell has asked me whether the government intends to freeze aid to more states and actors if it is found that they do not respect human rights. He has also asked me what I had known when it came to the situation in Belarus. In recent years we have seen a global trend of democratic decline as well as restrictions on human rights. That is why the government has made democracy one of its main priorities in this parliamentary term. Without democracy, we are not in a position to protect and strengthen respect for human rights and the rule of law. Sweden's commitment is clear. Human rights, democracy and the rule of law are the main thematic area of development cooperation. More than a quarter of Sida's paid-out funds go to this area. Let me mention Belarus, which Joar Forssell himself raises. The shortcomings in Belarus in respect for human rights and democracy have long been serious and well known. It has not been a secret for any of us who work with democracy and human rights, either at Sida or at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. The situation in Belarus has also deteriorated significantly in the aftermath of the presidential elections on 9 August. The guiding principle for Sweden's support to Belarus is that it should benefit the Belarus people. Sweden has found that, in addition to support for civil society, some cooperation with state actors in Belarus has been justified in promoting reforms and in the long term influencing the country in a democratic direction. Now that we see a regime that further increases repression, some actors who have so far been judged to be actors of change and possible to cooperate with are unfortunately no longer able to do so. Some projects are therefore no longer appropriate. As I have previously informed Parliament, the starting point is that aid to the state should be reduced when there is a negative development in terms of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in one of our partner countries. At the same time, it is important to continue to support those forces that are deemed to have the will and ability to contribute to greater democracy and respect for human rights. In light of the very serious developments since the presidential elections in Belarus, Sweden has chosen to freeze certain projects in which state actors have played an active role. In this connection, we are looking at how best to increase support for civil society in Belarus. The government applies the same guidelines and principles to all the countries to which we cooperate or provide assistance. Nevertheless, it must also be taken into account that aid operates in very different contexts and countries. The conditions for Sweden to work for strengthened democracy and respect for human rights are not the same everywhere. For example, an assessment is made on a case-by-case basis of which actors are best placed to cooperate with. In addition, we know that while the situation can change drastically in a very short time, positive social developments such as strengthened democracy and respect for human rights are often the result of complex processes with many interacting factors and actors. I can confirm to Joar Forssell that I and the government keep us constantly informed about the situation in the countries supported by Sweden through development cooperation and reform support. We are constantly reviewing aid to our partner countries so that it is designed in the best possible way. Basically, it is about making the greatest difference for the most vulnerable and promoting the work for greater democracy and human rights. I can assure Joar Forssell that I and the government take this task very seriously.
i-d2b2a32237dd809f-15	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Eriksson for his answer. I also thank you for the clarification. One of the reasons I put this interpellation was that the media minister expressed himself in a way that indicated that he had not understood that there was complete oppression in Belarus. He said: We now see what the situation is. However, the situation has been extremely serious for a very long time. Sweden has also for a long time chosen to support civil society in Belarus, and this is very positive. We have chosen to support the actors needed to build a democracy from the bottom up, and that is very positive. The government has done some things well. It was a good thing that aid to Cambodia was stopped and it was reduced to Tanzania. It follows the trend that the alliance government started when it ended aid to Vietnam and Nicaragua, for example. The Liberals have also fought for the January agreement to be a much clearer focus on democracy and human rights, which is, of course, positive. Madam President, I would like A serious problem, however, is that if one sees how democracy develops in different democracy indices and then looks at the countries to which Sweden provides a lot of aid, it looks pretty bad. It seems that the aid we provide to some of our largest aid-taking countries does not really work in terms of spreading democracy and respecting human rights. As Peter Eriksson says, for a long time Sweden has been giving Belarus assistance, not only to civil society but also to Belarus itself. We have therefore followed this country and the developments that have been in Belarus, and we have seen that for a long time there has been very serious repression and a very negative situation in terms of human rights and democracy. But now that people are finally getting up and out in the streets and in the streets and fighting for the democracy that we have wanted to support all these years, the government seems to be quite out of hand. Madam President, I would like Peter Eriksson mentioned how the government has collected a sharp policy against Belarus, but that is not true. When the Foreign Minister was on the EU Board, she opposed tough sanctions against the leadership – not only against those directly responsible for what is currently happening in the streets and squares of Belarus but also against those who are indirectly responsible – to create proper pressure on the leadership layer in Belarus. This opposed the Minister for Foreign Affairs, so the government's overall policy is not sharp enough. With regard to aid policy, for which Peter Eriksson is responsible in the government, assistance continues to be provided to, among other things, a municipality in Belarus where a treatment plant is being built. It seems that giving aid in this way does not work if we want countries to develop democratically and want human rights and freedoms in place. In the case of Belarus in particular, Madam President, it would be appropriate to stop providing aid to, for example, municipalities that build sewage treatment plants. Right now, people – civil society that we have supported – are out in the streets and squares and fighting for their rights and freedoms and for democracy. It is for those to target the aid. Then it is not important to continue to be friends with Lukasjenko and the other boys in his government, but to be friends with those who are out fighting for human rights.
i-d2b2a32237dd809f-27	Madam President, I would like I must say that I think the signals that we have sent to Belarus since the presidential elections have been clear. It has also become apparent in almost all belarusian media that we have cut or frozen aid to a number of state actors. This has been noted by many there, so I am not at all worried that these signals would not have arrived at Minsk or the people of the country. I do not agree with Joar Forssell that any aid activity we have there should be stopped, except for civil society. The response to civil society is largely dominant today. For example, to stop our efforts to get functioning municipal wastewater treatment plants in a couple of locations I see would not contribute to anything further. We also have efforts in relation to a state authority and radiation protection. The experience we have in Sweden, with a rather negative factor when it went bad with an Eastern reactor, means that radiation protection can be a good area to continue working with even in a serious democratic situation in the country. I think this is an important discussion – what we should do and how we should act in a situation where the situation is deteriorating significantly in terms of democratic or political developments in general in a country. I therefore appreciate this interpellation from Joar Forssell, because unfortunately there are similar situations in quite a few countries. It is a real observation that he makes when he says that many of the countries in which we are and provide aid are governed by authoritarian regimes. It is quite a common thing, but unfortunately the poor countries of the world are not the most developed democratic countries. If they had been active and developed democratically, we would probably not have had to provide aid, because then they would have had a functioning economy. It is not to Norway that we are sending aid, but to countries that are in a much more vulnerable situation, especially the people there. Therefore, aid should primarily not go to the regimes and countries as such, but to the population. It's the same in Belarus. Creating structures is part of aid. For example, we build national audit institutions and the JO. We have been involved in building up the JO in South Africa before, and we have built democratic institutions. It is also part of getting a functional country with systems to review and support transparency. Aid is provided in many different ways. It must be based on the situation and the structure of the country and the history it has had. In Eastern Europe, it is a special situation after the fall of the Soviet Union, and that is why we have broad cooperation with many countries in Eastern Europe.
i-d2b2a32237dd809f-34	Madam President, I would like I was rather kind in my introduction because I understood Peter Eriksson's answer as that the government had woken up a little and seriously wanted to address the question that our Swedish tax crowns end up as aid in countries where they can partly be used to maintain oppression. However, I am rather concerned about the answer I am given, Madam President. The Government is talking a little bit about Norway and says that it is clear that our aid goes to countries that have it tougher than Norway. Yeah, I know that too. Of course, democracy often goes hand in hand with prosperity and a market economy. All these things are based on the same principles, so it's not so strange. However, there are countries where more evidence shows that they want to fight to make the system more democratic, where they have more democratic elements or where they are less repressive of their people than in those countries that we choose to support with aid in different ways. In addition, Madam President, I am a little concerned about Peter Eriksson's response to the municipal projects that Sweden supports in Belarus. The way the Government responds once again indicates that the Government has not understood – I do not want to believe that, because we have had such a long collaboration with Belarus that it must be the case that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs keeps the Government properly informed – or is also trying to elucidate the issue. Madam President, I would like It is the case with Belarus that municipalities do not have tax rights, as in Sweden, where a municipality can have its own tax base and its own municipal projects and commitments. Not all municipalities need the support of the state – some need it sometimes and sometimes not. But in Belarus, no municipality has the right to tax. This means that each crown that a municipality has to add to, for example, a water treatment plant comes from the Treasury. That's how the whole belarusic system works. Lukasjenko sits like a mafia boss at the top and panders money, and then goes out to factories, waterworks or other facilities to which the state has given money and tells them that he has given them jobs and that they must now obey him. That's how the Mob dictatorship system in Belarus works. What happens if Sweden finances a water treatment plant in a municipality in Belarus is not that that municipality gets a little more money in the municipal treasury to build a school or do something else nice, but that means that the state in Belarus does not have to give as much money from the treasury to the municipality. This money can then be used by the state to buy tear gas grenades, kalashnikovs or batons. This is what is happening, and we then fund the system that maintains Lukasjenko power by allowing him to say to people, look, here you get jobs and so on as long as I'm in power! This is what the money is funding. I agree, Madam President, that a water treatment plant is a good thing that people need, absolutely! The only problem is that when you channel money through a municipality, like Belarus – a country that exposes its people to total oppression and that does not have municipal tax law – you help to support the treasury. On the other side of this treasury are the military police and special soldiers who attack the belarusic people and civil society that Sweden has tried to fund and build to create democracy. It's going to be very contradictory. The Government is happy to answer the question: Which other countries in the world do you see now that lack democracy and do not show that they are developing sufficiently democratically and that the Government wants to stop providing assistance to?
i-d2b2a32237dd809f-41	Madam President, I would like There was a special discussion about the water treatment plant. It could be interesting. My picture is not the same as Joar Forssell. Rather, if we had not been involved in financing it, it would not have been done or built much later. If we were to stop the aid for the construction of the water treatment plant, the project would in all likelihood be stopped. Then the effect would be that one does not get purification but continues to release into the river, which goes into the Baltic Sea. It will be a bit of self-harm if we stop these activities now, and I don't want to do that. Otherwise, much of what Mr Forssell says is true. I think these are key issues that we are discussing. Which other countries would we have to stop? What I'm trying to say is that you have to see every country in its context. In Eastern Europe we have been relatively patient, and we have also been in some other countries. But I think Eastern Europe is a good case. After a number of years, in which we have worked with civil society in a wide range of Eastern European countries, we have also had positive developments afterwards in most countries. This is not the case with Belarus, but in Armenia, Georgia and Ukraine we have nevertheless taken great steps in the right direction, although many of these countries have been under pressure from Russia. They have lived in a very difficult situation. It has also been important for us in terms of security policy to have positive developments in the countries of the former Soviet states. There are countries in Africa that I am very concerned about, for example Zimbabwe and also Mo ç ambique, which have a development that has been negative, as I see it. We have been patient in quite so many countries and have had long-term aid. Sometimes it has borne fruit. Sometimes the situation has worsened in the countries. You have to admit that. It's not always the way things go in the right direction. We are constantly reviewing the countries with which we cooperate. In Bolivia, for example, we saw positive developments for some time. Now it's a more uncertain situation. I know that some Liberals thought that we should stop all cooperation with Bolivia. I think it would have been premature. Today we see that there may still be a good development there again. At the moment, I think that we should support efforts to bring about new elections and make democracy work in a sensible way. I think, as I said, that we must start from each country and the situation there rather than say that it should always be exactly the same. However, the starting point is correct, and as I know the Liberals have also pushed, namely that when we see negative developments, we should take steps further away from the state and have less cooperation with the state and try more to build on civil society and other actors and try to find change actors in this situation.
i-d2b2a32237dd809f-47	Madam President, I would like We constantly return to the question of how the information flows are at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and what Peter Eriksson knows in his role as Minister of State and Minister of Development. I have not really received an answer as to whether it is part of the calculation and calculation that, for example in Belarus, since the municipalities do not have tax rights, it means that if you give 1 krona to a municipality in Belarus, the state of Belarus needs to give this municipality 1 krona less. That's how the system works. The system also works in such a way that Lukasjenko can go there and take credit for this and say to people: Look what nice things you get from us. It is a mafia-like dictatorship, and that is how many dictatorships work. That is also one reason why many dictatorships are poor. It is a recurring problem that when you give support somewhere, there is a risk that the power that governs that particular place can take credit for what has been created. Then you can maintain a little power. At the same time, one can shovel around a little in the budget and move some money around and make something much worse, for example, doing something that would counteract the human rights of this money instead of doing what we have given assistance to. Madam President, I would like In fact, this is not just about Belarus, it is precisely about the view of aid throughout the world. As Peter Eriksson himself admits, it has been a demand from the Liberals in the January agreement that we should have an increased focus on democracy. I have a question. The Minister for Development says that it is following developments in a number of countries. I say that following developments in a number of countries, we can see that some of our main beneficiaries are countries where the trend is negative in terms of aid. Are there any other countries that Peter Eriksson will now want to suspend or reduce aid to? Shouldn't we get less if we don't live up to human rights?
i-d2b2a32237dd809f-52	Madam President, I would like We do not have a decision and a line of less aid for all countries with which we have bilateral agreements and where we see negative democratic developments. In the agreement we have with the Liberals, the starting point is that we should have less cooperation with the state. There's a difference. There I think there may be a misconception from Joar Forssell. It's not like we're sending money to states. There are very few contexts where money goes from the Swedish state to the state budget of the aid country, without it going completely different ways. We use other methods when we build something and when we work with different institutions. We're not sending money to the state budget. It is quite rare that this is the way it is done.
