ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-15-lower.ana.ud964e39	In the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment: ‘Some disabled persons, or persons with special disabilities, are prevented from taking part in the labour market because they cannot have a certificate or use public transport because of disability, and the Committee would stress that it would be better – both economically and humanly – to provide this group with support for transport than to allow them to move on to disability.’ In the context of the process of the defrosting message, a unanimous decision was taken to ask the Government to submit legislative proposals to ensure the disabled coverage of transport costs for work trips when they are unable to use public transport. In view of this, the representatives Helge Bjørnsen and Olav Gunnar Ballo have put forward proposals to amend the Law on Social Security in order to allow disabled persons to receive travel aid for work trips where they are unable to use public transport, where such an offer is not available or where the disability in itself makes their own transport impossible. The proposers also point out that it is the policy of the Government and the Stortinge that as much as possible should be given the opportunity to support themselves in their own work, and that there has been an explicit political desire for the transport sector to assume greater responsibility for providing services to disabled persons as well, and they promote proposals for amendments to the People's Security Act §8-14. A unanimous committee agrees with the intention of the proposal and refers to the letter of 31 January 2001 from the Minister for Social Affairs, which states that, in cooperation with several ministries, she is working on attempts to cover work travel for people with disabilities who are unable to use public means of communication. The evaluation from the experiment will form the basis for the design of a future transport aid scheme for work trips. The Committee has noted that the Social Minister intends to bring the matter before the Grand Duchy in the context of the revised 2001 budget. In this context, no concrete legislative proposal by the Committee is promoted, but the Committee emphasises the importance of the rapid implementation of the pilot measures, so that a system of transport aid for work travel can be developed as soon as possible, even for persons with a long-term need for special transport to get into work. It is important that provision be made for the most appropriate means of caring for yourself. This is important both for individuals and for society. As far as possible, opportunities should be provided for the development of their working capacity and the satisfaction they provide for the provision of a job. This will also help reduce the cost of disability benefits. As I said, the Committee supports the intention of the proposal and expects the Social Minister to bring the matter before the Storting as planned and the scheme to be implemented as soon as possible. On this basis, the Committee proposes that document No. 8:2 for 2000-2001 is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-15-lower.ana.ud964e66	I am glad that this matter finally seems to get a solution, but the jam takes things time. This is one of the stumbling blocks that people with disabilities have experienced. I have had up to several contacts from young people who have not been able to accept regular work, but who, on the contrary, have had to continue to pursue rehabilitation or other social welfare schemes during the labour market session, and some have even lost that offer pending a transport aid scheme. There are many paradoxes in this, I think. It turns out that a person, for example: may be entitled to a car for disabled and personal assistant, while at the same time you cannot afford another service that costs much less, namely to be able to take a taxi to work if you need it. There are many disabled people who don't want a personal assistant, there are many disabled people who think that taking a driving licence for a car adapted to the disabled is quite strenuous and difficult, and who don't want to take on the big promise it is in addition to being able to cope with their disability. I think we might have to start thinking about some new principles when it comes to different performances for those who need assistance in different areas. If I go back to the example I mentioned, with a person like that. is entitled to both a disabled car and a personal assistant, it is a quite expensive scheme. It would have been possible to imagine a system that was such that if you actually have the right to so much, you could get the right to dispose of that sum, and within that sum, you could decide what kind of tools you wanted in a conference with a professional. There have also been some other rather embarrassing examples, where people who have had cancer treatment have been able to get support for wigs, but have not had support, for example. There are some such rules that become completely meaningless in practice. We need to get this into a system where we can adapt the tools to those who need them, and not the other way around. I don't believe in any way that it's going to be more expensive. So I need to say that I think it takes too much time to get in place such small schemes as this. This is also about modernising the public sector. This is about getting rid of all the molbo stories that make people lose confidence in us and in the system. This has now been said several times, and the Social Committee has also had a provision on exactly the same subject, but it is important to change the provision so that there are not only disorders in the mobility apparatus that give the right to temporary support for transport. So I'm probably wondering that it hasn't been possible to get this simple, small arrangement in place. So now it's almost a year, and it's going to be over a year before we get it in place, and that's when we know that there's kids around who need this scheme to be able to accept a job offer they actually have. So I'm a little disappointed that we're so slow about such simple things, and I don't understand what the risk would be of getting such arrangements in place a little bit faster. In fact, I don't think people are in line to cheat us on such schemes. I think that if we are going to put a blow on those who are trying to trick the public sector into money and aid, it is on completely different sectors that we are going to put in place and focus to bring about different forms of such abuse. So I'm very happy that this is coming, but I think both big business and government here are going to have to set the speed up a little bit if we're not going to get into a little awkward situation compared to what we're not able to fix up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-15-lower.ana.ud964e83	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-15-lower.ana.ud964e91	The odelsting goes to voting.
