ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e25	Two permit applications are available: by the delegation of the Grand Duchy to the 2001 session of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, first part, in Strasbourg, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Tom Thoresen. The application concerns a period of leave from 23 January to 25 January for the representatives of Aud Blattmann, Annelise Höegh, Tomas Norvoll, Lars Rise, Jan Simonsen and Anita Apelthun Seele. from the representative of Odd Eriksen on maternity leave for the period from 23 January to 5 February. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox These applications shall be dealt with without delay and shall be granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave:For the West Agder counties: Rolf Terje KlunglandFor the Hordaland counties: Kurt-Arne LangelandFor the Nordic counties: Bears Olsen and Kari BridevollFor Oslo: Ann Kathrine S. Tornås and Anders C. ShaastadFor the Rogaland counties: Toril Haaland Horpestad3. Ann Kathrine S. Tornås is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative Lars Rise.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e99	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office for today’s meeting – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e104	I allow myself to propose Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e109	Kenneth Svendsen has been proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e121	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 50 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Bastesen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e132	In Norway, we are very concerned that the food we eat should be safe, and that we should not care so that people's health is compromised. This is the hold of all parties, even if you have come to different conclusions on this matter. Right, multiples go in to raise the maximum limit for different additives. To some extent, this could lead to increased health risks if Norwegian producers needed to increase the use of the additive in the products to which it relates. It doesn't have the industry. Therefore, raising the maximum size limit will not have practical consequences. Norwegian products are going to be the same and imported the same. The situation of public health is going to be the same. We take people saying fear of health risks seriously. The position we are discussing today is extensive and extensive. The background to this is, of course, the fact that the so-called food make-up directives are politically and to some extent professionally disputed. The Committee has dealt with these matters carefully. This includes: conducted an extensive open hearing in which 14 different public bodies and organisations were called. Here, the matter was thoroughly discussed and evaluated by the country’s leading experts in the areas of health and food security. Despite this, it is claimed – and it will probably be claimed today – that the case is handled at a rate that is irresponsible. I feel sure that the positions of the different parties expressed in the setting would have been the same if we had spent one or two months longer on the setting. Several governments have tried to persuade the EU to accept that Norway could keep to its current maximum levels of co-formulant. The starting point was, of course, that there should be no slightest doubt that Norwegian food was safe and did not lead to increased health damage. Following the rejection by the European Commission on 8 November 1999, of Norway’s requirement to maintain the national rules for the additives in question, only two alternatives remained for Norwegian authorities: including the directives or vetoing them. The issues were therefore transparent. The Bondevik government did not have the power to bring matters before the Storting. This led to a loss of time. It was the government of Stoltenberg that had to get through and get things done. It is important to take a decision on this matter before the meeting of the EEA Committee on 26 January, as the majority sees it. The fact that the Committee gave a preliminary opinion before the meeting of the EEA Committee on 15 December last year was also positive. I, like everyone else, have for a long time recorded that the food make-up directive was perceived as a political problem-maker. It was therefore with mixed feelings that I started the review of the matter. After reading the proposition and listening to the 14 instances we had on the phone, I left with a feeling that there was no match between the noise level and the actual levels. Firstly, a very wide-ranging adaptation to the content of the directives in question was implemented by the Bondevik Government in November 1999. Secondly, there must be many who have understood it so that we are required to increase the use of additives to the EU level. It's not like that. The limits of the use of additive are maximum limits. The EU thus does not require the amount of nitrite, nitrate, azocolouration or cyclamate we are going to use. The requirement is not to exceed certain quantities. Right, these limits are slightly higher than those we have in Norway today as maximum limits. If Norwegian producers needed to increase and increase the use of one or more of the additives, this would pose some health risks. However, there is a need for a kind of high consumption of a product where the additive is useful, before it causes health damage. The various Directives provide for greater addition of nitrite and nitrates, including: meat product. Nitrite can react with amine in food and lead to the formation of nitrosamine, which is carcinogenic. In Denmark, nitrosamine from food has been found to lead to 0.04-0.4 additional cancer deaths per year. 1 million people per year. years. This must say is a low risk. One could easily identify many aspects of people’s behavior that can lead to far greater health damage. The directive on colouring matters covers artificial dyes in different products, such as: light shower. These may exacerbate the situation of those with allergies. In Denmark one calculates that 0.1-0.2 pst. of the Danish children can react to azo dyes. In the United States, 0.01 pst is calculated. of the people are hypersensitive to azocolourant, in Sweden 0.04 pst. The Sweeteners Directive regulates legal amounts of sweeteners, such as cyclamate, in food. In 1997-1998, the State Food Authority carried out a new and comprehensive investigation. This showed that even if the products had a sweetener content in accordance with the Directive, the intake would be within the tolerance, the ADI, even for large consumers. This shows that the EU's maximum limits after the three directives do not significantly increase the risk if they are applied against all solar brands in Norway. The actual situation is that there will be no change in the use of the additive in Norwegian-produced food. The food industry has clearly stated that there is no need to increase the use of additives. So can we trust that this is going to be the situation? I mean yes, not least because the industry has no reason to increase the use of additives. It does not need to increase the use for products to be durable. There are no economic reasons for that, because more additives increase the cost of the product. Nor are there competition reasons, because consumers will react quickly not to buy the product from the producer(s) that increase the use of the additive. Imported products from EU countries will in the future have the same amount of additive content as today, i.e.: In Norway, the added amount will be the same as today. And there is reason to stress that in Sweden and Denmark, the food industry has not increased the amount of additives to the EU level, which underlines that there is no EU requirement to increase the amount of additives. Increased health risks for the Norwegian people must be able to assert with great certainty that the three directives will not be included. In order to be on the safe side, the majority have a proposal asking the Government to take action to improve labelling also for food without packaging. Furthermore, the Government requests that information measures on the use of the additive be implemented by the Government. The label must be applied to make it easier for consumers to find out which substance the different products contain. One or more E-numbers tell people most of the time very little. If the labelling and information become good and easy to understand, we can see that the health risk is getting smaller than today. Consumers may switch to products with or without smaller additives. So some words about the right of reservation. The right of reservation is part of the EEA Agreement and may be used. However, it is clear that one should be extremely careful about putting it into use. The impact of exercising the right of reservation has been duly demonstrated by the management of this case. The picture from the Size Selection section shows this clearly. The purely legal sides of a no are seen as unsafe. However, there is reason to believe that we would be able to live up to the countermeasures that the EU would launch on the basis of purely legal interpretations of the EEA Agreement. What seemed far worse is that one does not have an overview of the political dimension by using the veto right. However, we know that the use of the veto will affect the climate between the EU and EEA countries, and at worst there may be consequences for the EU's adherence to the EEA Agreement. It was probably this Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk who, on 28 January 1999, during the debate on the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on Norwegian European Policy, said the following: ‘I have underlined in my presentation, and other expert councils have also emphasised that we will of course take advantage of other possibilities before we may apply the right of veto, because we all believe that it should be used – I had almost said – in cases of extreme need.’ One would like to think that the inclusion of the three directives is a difficult question, but there is a long way to go until 'extreme emergencies'. We'll probably get things that are far more important to Norway, and the veto right should therefore not be used in a case like this. All those who are politically interested know that it is better to be involved and influence development than to stand outside. We will work for ‘Food for better health’, both Norwegian-produced food and food produced in Europe. Therefore, we will not jeopardise the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e175	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e178	I would say that the committee did not have enough time to deal with this matter, and that the Norwegian community did not have enough time to make the Norwegian balance, because this is also an internal Norwegian case, not just a foreign matter. The point of these drugs that we're dealing with now is to make the goods more saleable in terms of price and presentation, as we know, are very strong mechanisms in trade. Here, children and young people are important target groups for goods with, among other things, dye. Will this marking, claimed by the Workers' Party, help children gain greater consumer power in the candy shop? I don't think so. The main argument of the working party is the agreement with the commercial industry or the binding opinion it has given. What would the Workers' Party have thought about the matter if the food industry and industry had not committed themselves to maintaining Norwegian standards? Would they, however, accept the Directive? Do they accept this because it affects so few people, just a small percentage of the population? And are these people worth less than Norwegian export opportunities?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e185	It can be said that we have not spent enough time dealing with this matter. But I repeat what I said in my main post, that I am absolutely sure that if we had never spent that long, the positions would not have changed significantly. One has a good overview of the different sides of the case, so that's exactly what's happened in this context. But I do not hide the fact that one also has a beard of Norway's interests in relation to the agreement we have with the EU. It is quite obvious that it is important that we use the mechanisms we have in relation to the EU through the EEA Agreement and that we do not unnecessarily prevent implementation until other providers have been tried. So to the question of what I would have done if the food industry and the commercial industry hadn't said that they wouldn't produce or translate with more use of the additive. Then you might have found other tools. Because it's not like everything's been exhausted because if one of them did come up with a result. The actual relationship for us after the directives are included is that the situation is exactly the same as before. That should be enough for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e194	The Labour Party is plagued by the fact that people in Norway are better off than people in the EU in many areas, because we are not a member. The benefits we have, the Workers' Party wants to remove one for one. The Labour Party will not hear of Norwegian animal health as being better than in the EU, and they will not want food in Norway to pose less health risks than in the EU. That's what this case is about. The Labour Party will remove all good arguments against Norwegian EU membership before the next EU fight. It is not disputed that increased addition of nitrate/nitrite increases the risk of cancer. The EU Food Scientific Committee states that nitrosamines are harmful to health to such an extent that there is no safe minimum limit. They want zero as a limit, and they say that at least the maximum limit has to be reduced strongly. Our health authorities say that we should not increase our limits in any way. That's also what the Food Authority says. The consumers we have talked to say the same thing: our borders must be established. That is what the Labour Party has also said. They said it in the time of the Jagland government. Now the Workers' Party says that Rimi-Hagen and Rema-Reitan must take over the responsibility, because they dare not. The center party says it's cowardly and irresponsible. In Denmark, a unanimous parliament voted against these directives when they were being discussed. After their adoption, Denmark brought an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union. They use all the possibilities they have as a nation, and they don't have the right to reserve that we've negotiated. They say that it is not good enough that the industry and trade in Denmark say the same thing as our industry and trade say. They want to have different rules and get permission to do that. My question is as follows: Why is the health of the Nordics less important for the Workers' Party than the health of the Danes is for the social democrats in Denmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e207	It is not new that the Centre Party is using everyone's power to influence our cooperation with the EU. For the centre party, it would have been great if this case had led to the whole EEA agreement going into resolution. I do not ignore the fact that there is a part of the argument that has been made by the Center Party through the treatment of this matter. The use of the quote that the Center Party has made in this setting is one of the most unlikely things I have seen in the almost 20 years I have had connection to this house. I'm sure those who are quoted feel a lot of discomfort, because it's only the one side of what they've said, which is represented in the setting. In addition to what the Centre Party has done, when it comes to the use of quotations, it is far from Section 18 of the Storting Rules of Procedure. So to the question of the boundaries that are. It is quite obvious that if we had been a member of the EU, we would have had a far greater opportunity to deal with these limits than we have through the EEA Agreement. But we're not, and there's a lot of people who are responsible for not being there. A Member State is far more able to influence decisions in the EU than we have through the EEA Agreement. Maybe more than I can sign it on. There are also many examples of the documents we have had in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e214	The representative of Opseth went a long way in saying that the use of the right of reservation in these cases could jeopardise the whole EEA Agreement. This seems strange in view of the de minimis importance of reservation, despite everything for the EU. The application of the right of reservation in these cases could have a significant impact on some people in Norway, and the introduction of these Directives could have a significant negative impact on a few people in Norway. For Norwegian producers it could be of great importance if we maintain the legislation we have. But for the EU, this cannot possibly mean much. My question is therefore: does the representative Opseth, or does he know that the Government has, tested the political terrain in the EU enough to know that the use of the right of reservation will annoy the EU to the extent that one could ask questions throughout the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e221	Now, the situation is that if we include these three directives and thus increase the maximum levels, it will not result in any more additives in the Norwegian product. It's not just that the food industry has said that they don't want to, but they just don't have any reason to do it, because they're going to lose on it both economically and in relation to the consumer. Then the question is whether or not the right of reservation, if we used it, would have meant cooperation between the EU and EEA countries. There is no particular doubt that it would have an impact. What that would be is purely legal one side, the political dimension one completely different. And, as Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk said in 1999, a reservation right should be used in extreme emergencies. I think that's a good starting point. It is a tool that is there, but it must also be of such a size that you can find the right way to use it and take the consequences. We mean that this case, which does not lead to any change for the Norwegian consumer, is not such a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e228	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e232	The size currently addresses the inclusion of three EU directives on food additives in the EEA Agreement. Health safety is the focus of the debate on the EU specific Directives on food additives and a good number of objections have been raised on the occasion of the case, both from consumers and organisations. There are provisions on some of the authorised substances and quantity limits in the EU food additive directives that have been responded to. It is the sweetener cyclamate, azo dyes and preservatives nitrate and nitrite that are produced and that the case-rapporteur is thoroughly treated. Cyclamate is an artificial sweetener with a strong sweetening effect and in Norway, cyclamate is authorised as a constituent of table sweeteners and in soft drinks. The EU Directives allow the addition of the substance in addition to this in e.g.: ice cream, desserts, jams, confectionery, chocolate and bakery wares. A certain proportion of cyclamate consumed is converted by intestinal bacteria into a substance that can cause testicular damage and impaired sperm quality. The SNT carried out a study on the intake of cyclamate in 1997. The study showed that a few people had an intake of ADI, due to high consumption of table-top sweeteners in coffee and tea. It was also found at the open hearing in the Food Committee on 11 December that Norway and Scandinavia actually consume more soft drinks containing artificial sweeteners than elsewhere in Europe. Single groups, e.g. Young girls who want to slim down can have a high consumption and approach the ADI. The government is now trying to bring about a transitional regime in the case of cyclamate. It is the case that the EU’s own Scientific Committee has changed its advice on acceptable daily intakes, and the possibilities for the EU to reduce this in the near future are taken into account. The Progress Party agrees that priority should be given to a transitional arrangement in this area, so that Norway can not adjust the amount allowed up and then adjust it down again. There has been a debate on the possibility of EU directives allowing more extensive use of dyes, including synthetic azocolourants, as per currently only permitted for use in special products such as roach caviar, sea salmon, spirits and mercy in Norway. The EU Directive allows substances to be added, for example: in showers, confectionery, ice cream, snacks, sauces and soups. The azo dyes may trigger hypersensitivity reactions such as asthma, sneezing and children’s eczema in exposed persons. Taking into account the availability of alternative colours on the market, the need for these substances may also be discussed. It may be in relation to azo dyes, where Norway has been restrictive since 1978, as these dyes have almost not been used, and where the EU is now opening up to use in many different products, that the challenges can be greatest. There are substances that the Norwegian population in general has not experienced in the past. It is therefore important to follow developments closely. Within the scope of the so-called ‘various’ Directive, such as, inter alia: In particular, antioxidants, preservatives and thickeners are opened. for a major addition of nitrite and nitrate. The substances are used as preservatives in certain meat products, cheese and herring. It also acts as a colour stabiliser and gives a special taste in meat products. Nitrite can be converted into nitrosamines. Nitrosamines can lead to cancer in many different animal species, and it is assumed that this also applies to humans. The more nitrite, the greater the risk of the formation of harmful amounts of nitrosamines. Moreover, larger amounts of nitrite in meat products may mask poor hygiene. There is thus a possibility of increased use of additives if there is a possibility of increased competitiveness. Nevertheless, despite the fact that the Directives contain some problematic substances for which examples have been given, the Progress Party has favoured the inclusion of the Directives in the EEA Agreement. Of course, it would have been desirable for the EU to be at Norwegian level with regard to food additives. But as a partner in an international agreement, there are many considerations to consider. In principle, the directives should have been incorporated five to six years ago. And it is not possible to maintain divergent national provisions. Norwegian health authorities also consider the health risk to be very low, even if the directives are implemented in Norwegian legislation. It should also be noted that Sweden and Denmark have had similar objections to these parts of the Directives as Norway, but have now implemented them. The debate on the EEA Agreement highlights the fact that the agreement gave Norway the right to veto new EU laws. However, a Norwegian veto against the food make-up directives is not recommended, we believe. The matter is not of such importance that we can risk weakening the EEA Agreement. The degree of risk of serious countermeasures by the EU in the event of a Norwegian veto, it is impossible to have a safe formation. But there is reason to believe that there would be significant consequences. Several countries inside the EU have, as mentioned, tried to bring about changes without success. It's almost unimaginable when, for example, Sweden and Denmark, as EU members, are forced to implement, that foreign Norway should have a better system through the EEA Agreement. That is why we must expect significant counter-reactions on the part of the European Union. This is the assessment of the Progress Party. It will be far better to try to influence. We assume that Norwegian authorities are actively working to improve EU legislation so that it is as much as possible in line with current Norwegian practice on nitrite, nitrate and azo dyes. Several EU countries want to move in the same direction as Norway. Therefore, it is not unrealistic to be able to influence this issue at all. We have an impact in the EEA Agreement through our participation in many of the committees preparing the cases. There is a certain opportunity to participate in the development of legislation in the fields covered by the Agreement. Furthermore, the issue of food safety, food additives and labelling is also on the agenda in the EU. The Commission has recently submitted a White Paper on food safety and alerts the review of 17 directives in this field. Although this matter is important, we should not exaggerate the consequences of these directives. We need to be concerned with the possibilities first and foremost, rather than seeing the problems. Most Norwegian food is produced in Norway, and Norwegian producers say they want to maintain current Norwegian practices regarding the use of problematic substances. In the open consultation before Christmas, representatives of the food industry and trade organisations made it clear that they do not wish to change current practices, i.e.: the use of azo dyes and nitrates and nitrite will be made in line with the strict rules in force. In this context, it should be mentioned that the chains are offensive and strong in their focus on safe food and consumer perspective. It is not desirable to contribute to the weakening of consumer confidence in Norwegian food products. Good information to consumers is important and will become more important in the future. It is possible to influence consumers against healthy foods. Now that we have legislation that incorporates problematic substances with higher maximum addition limits, it is important to have a high degree of transparency around these issues. Information and dialogue will be central. Reasonable use of information, including: by labelling products, consumers will be given a greater degree of safety. Of course, it will be a challenge to get this to and to inform consumers in a safe and proper way so that they can receive the necessary training and knowledge. This applies to particularly vulnerable groups. In this case, there is little reason to believe that the market will in particular require a product containing higher levels of additives than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e258	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e261	Alternative governments have reason to believe that they should listen to the technical advice on food safety in Norway. In this case, the Progress Party and the majority negate the professional judgements. I refer then to what the State Health Authority has said, namely that the decision that the Advance Party will take today is ‘an unfortunate signal in relation to the effort in Norway to prevent cancer, allergy and safe food’. I would like to ask the representative Hedstrøm if it does not make any impression on him that our top professional authorities in clear text state that this is a decision that will be unfortunate both in terms of combating cancer and combating allergies. I believe that also a hard-skinned politician like Hedstrom must respond to the fact that this has been given clear advice from the professional authorities who are moving towards the position the Progress Party will take in the vote later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e268	The representative Jacobsen was concerned with the technical advice. I want to answer this way: it's going to be the total number of recordings and the sum of those that will be the basis for the assessment. We had an open hearing, and there were a number of professional bodies present, and there were both positives and negatives. I even asked a number of critical questions to different instances, I was perhaps the one in the three games that now stand together, which asked the most critical questions. It was a matter of whether we were, for example, be able to rely on industry as regards the use of nitrite and nitrate in relation to competition issues or whether they would increase it. There was also azo dyes, which are relatively little used in Norway, and it may be here that the main challenges will arise. This was also the case with cyclamate and that artificial soft drinks are used more in Norway, and that it is easier to approach the ADI due to the high level of consumption. But the answers we received were satisfactory enough for the Progress Party to be in a position to accept the inclusion of these three food make-up directives. And that was, among other things, the answer from our Minister of Health and the Ministry that was the basis for it. He clearly said that there was no basis for believing that these additives would be used more. We also need to look at the experience of our neighbouring countries that have incorporated the directives, Denmark and Sweden. There are studies that clearly show that, among other things: the azo dyes have not been used any more.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e273	In my view, in relation to additives, there are two important principles that should form the basis and should also be secondary elements, such as: international agreements, which maintain the precautionary principle and the security of people in relation to food security. It has been possible in various media to read the opinions of representatives of the food chains that state that they cannot understand why the food should be made up more than is the case today. This creates uncertainty for consumers. They also show that they want cleaner goods. Consumer cooperation is also clear in its opinions here. I refer in that context to what Hedstrom said that it is not possible to deviate from international regulations in such areas. My question to Hedstrøm will then be: is the consideration of international agreements more important to the Progress Party and the representative Hedstrøm than the responsibility of national politicians to provide security for our citizens as regards the quality of food offered in business?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e280	In this respect, of course, it would be an overall assessment for all parties that international agreements should be more important than the safety of consumers. I just want to remind you of what has been said earlier, that the limits that are being set are maximum limits, and open up opportunities for each national state to allow the actors involved in this to go to a lower level. I want to turn this into something positive. Norway must try to influence through the bodies we have access to within the EEA system. We also know that the EU and many countries are concerned about this with food security and greatly appreciate safe food. This is what we see in Europe now, where in some countries a mass psychosis has almost occurred due to a number of other questions, including: on infection, etc. And I'm thinking especially of France. So it's clear that if Norway can come up with important points of view and arguments, we can manage to influence consumers and politicians in these countries when it comes to finding good solutions within that system. With regard to the issue of Norway’s position in relation to vetoing and using its right of reservation, I agree with the case rapporteur that it should only be used in extreme cases because we do not have an overview of the political consequences of it today. So I think – although there are both pluses and minuses in this case – that the Progress Party has fallen to a reasonable point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e289	The representative Hedstrøm addressed many of the issues of the directives we are dealing with today, and I also noticed during the hearing that the representative Hedstrøm asked many good questions. One can say a lot about the Progress Party – and so does SV often – but that easily frightened usually doesn't work the Advance Party. But here they have let themselves be intimidated by the EU's demands for the inclusion of the directives. The representative Hedstrøm considered it important to influence the EU. If the aim is to get the European Union on the line we currently have in Norway, will it not be an effective form of influence if EFTA simply says that these directives do not accept us? We believe that the EU should rather move in the direction we stand for, because we can prove well professionally and scientifically that these directives will pose health risks.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e296	I don't think we're going to exaggerate Norway's ability in the EEA context to put power behind the requirements. This with the veto right has not been tried before. When we see developments within the European Union, where there is no indication that Norway will be more interested, but that interest will be directed to the east first, we cannot expect that, if we meet the requirements, we will have a very good political hearing within the EU system. We know that Sweden and Denmark, which are EU members, and which are more central in this than Norway, did not have an exception rule. They have incorporated the food make-up directives and have had to accept them as national legislation. What was it supposed to mean that Norway could put power behind the requirements? I find it hard to see that we should be able to achieve a lot of that. On the other hand, by using the bodies in the EEA where Norway has access, and through professional input, I think we will be able to achieve some results that will go in the Norwegian direction. It is also the case that we gradually gain more knowledge about these problematic substances, and that both the EU and Norway can assess what maximum levels should be, in a completely different way from what is being done today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e301	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e304	The representative Opseth thought that you've spent enough time, it would have been the same result anyway. I wonder a little about such an attitude towards the Norwegian big business. Those who were going to the hearing hardly got a working day to prepare. Foreign Minister Jagland wanted to go to Brussels with a non-appointed committee position. I don't think this is respect for the Storting and the democratic processes that we have the tradition of implementing here in the house. Storing treatment is not just a ‘technicality’. It is a serious matter we have to deal with today. We will address very important questions. These are issues which relate to health and people's confidence in Norwegian food and Norwegian consumer policy and, on the other hand, to the follow-up to the EEA Agreement. Since the EEA Agreement was introduced in 1994, Norway has not ever exercised the right of reservation against directives adopted in the EU. We have correctly incorporated EU legislation into Norwegian legislation. Things have usually been unproblematic and appropriate, but not always, not at all. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring the EEA Agreement as a good basis for our relationship with the EU and the EU's internal market. Therefore, we do not recommend the use of the right of reservation without finding the arguments very difficult. We have found that in this case, and we have the consumer organisations with us in most EU countries. In the landfill proposal, the Government proposes that Norway incorporates the various Directives, the Coloring Substances Directive and the Sweeteners Directive into the EEA Agreement. At the same time, the Government specifies that Norway will request a transitional regime with regard to the Sweeteners Directive and limit values for the use of cyclamate pending the expected tightening of EU own limit values. The debate on the various Directives concerns the use of nitrates and nitrite. Nitrate can be converted into nitrite in the food, and nitrite is again converted into nitrosamines that can lead to cancer. This is demonstrable. Norwegian health authorities have been clear in their opinions. They do not want to increase their use in Norway. They state that there is no safe lower limit on the use of these substances. Nitrates and nitrite are added to food to improve stability and to ensure a stable colour. In countries further south of Europe, such additives have helped to avoid food poisoning due to bacterial growth in food. In Norway, the climate is different, and the hygienic conditions in both the food industry and sales indicate that we do not need higher limit values for these substances than those we have in Norway today. But yet, if this is adopted, we can import goods with higher value. Denmark shares Norway’s views on the use of these substances. As a Member State, they have asked for an exemption. When they were not exempted, they have introduced EU limit values, but they have filed a case before the European Court of Justice, and the Government has intervened in support of Denmark. The negative health consequences of increased use of nitrate and nitrite are well documented. The majority have also not argued against the negative health consequences of increased use of these substances. The Christian People’s Party considers that the potential adverse health consequences are so serious that it is necessary for Norway in this case to use the right to reserve itself against the inclusion of this Directive in the EEA Agreement. The directive on colouring matters means that several colouring matters are permitted in Norway, that some colouring matters are allowed to be used in areas other than those currently permitted in Norway and that maximum levels are increased so that the permitted amount of colouring matter in the foodstuffs is increased. It is far from all dyes and uses that are equally problematic. The main problem is the use of azocolourants. There is no doubt that increased use of azo dyes can and will have negative consequences. The increased use of azocolourants is associated with hypersensitivity in exposed groups. With a few exceptions, these substances have been banned in Norway since 1978. A main question relating to the azo dyes is whether it is considered to be the responsibility of the individual to avoid food products with such additives or whether the authorities should be responsible. The proposition shows that an ‘extensive use of azocolourants is likely to result in a number of people, especially children with some kind of allergy, react with hypersensitivity to the substances’. In Norway, we have a tradition of placing greater emphasis on the consideration of people with allergies than has been the tradition of consumer policy in the EU. How important this is is well illustrated in the government's own description of the problems related to children. Most adult consumers are able to study product declarations, but children do not have the same ability to protect themselves against the intake of substances against which they may be allergic. The consumer power of children in the candy shop is illusory. The Christian People's Party will place great emphasis on the consideration of people with allergies and hypersensitivity. In particular, consideration is given to consumers who are not themselves able to take precautions against the consumption of products with azocolourants against which they may be allergic, in the first number of children. Allergy is a growing problem. There are increasing numbers of them, and we have far too little research in this area. We do not want to contribute to the deterioration of the situation by allowing new substances and increased use of substances that may cause allergies, especially in the case of colouring substances that are intended to contribute solely to the appearance of food. They have no nutritional value. Therefore, in view of the directive on colouring matters, it is also necessary for Norway to reserve itself against the inclusion of this Directive in the EEA Agreement. The Sweeteners Directive is about increasing the maximum levels for the use of different sweeteners and the debate is primarily linked to the increased use of cyclamate. Cyclamate can be converted into cyclohexamine. This substance may in turn cause testicular damage and impaired sperm quality. There is no doubt that no one wants increased use of cyclamate. The government points to the fact that the EU is working on changes to its own limit values and that it is likely that the limit values for the use of cyclamate will be reduced to the Norwegian level, so that the difference between the Norwegian limit values and the EU limit values will not be as wide as today. In Norway, far more artificially sweetened foods are consumed than on average in Europe. In particular, the consumption of light showers with artificial sweeteners is high. This alone speaks for the fact that in Norway there is a greater need for lower limit values than the EU. For the Christian People's Party, it has been essential in the context of the Sapphire Directive that the Government will ask for a transitional arrangement until the EU has changed its limit values towards the current limit values in Norway. We have a little bit bigger problems with the government's mention of the problem in the proposition. It's hard to win in negotiations when you put all the cards on the table in advance, as the government has done in the proposition. It appears that the Government will ask for a transitional arrangement, but that one will be in favour of the inclusion of EU limit values if one does not have a transitional arrangement. It's a nice greeting that the government of Stoltenberg continues the strong commitment of the centre parties to more transparency in administration, but this was not exactly how we thought it would be. It must be seen as a wretched negotiating tactic. A key element of the debate has been the need to maintain stricter Norwegian maximum levels in order to avoid increased use of the various additives. In its argument, the government and the majority place great emphasis on the fact that Norwegian food producers and the daily food industry do not want to change practices with regard to the use of nitrite and nitrate and azo dyes. Of course, it is very positive that market players want to take responsibility for the content of the products they produce and sell. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are pleased with this attitude, not least since the majority in this Chamber will later today contribute to raising the regulatory limits. For the Christian People's Party, however, it is not enough that organisations and a number of actors in the industry express a positive willingness to take responsibility. We believe it is a responsibility for the authorities to set limit values in line with what we can defend. We cannot run away from the responsibility we have, and hope that market players will take responsibility when we fail. Such a line cannot stand for the Christian People's Party. In this context, it would also be interesting to know what the majority would do if representatives of the food industry and the food industry had not given the opinion that they would not change their use. What would the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party do if they had to deal with the new limits? The opinion is, as I said, very positive, but there is reason to ask how committed it is and how important it is to the EEA. Such an opinion does not, in substance, require any one. There is a statement to the consumer, but any producer wishing to increase the use of additives is free to do so. Similarly, any grocery store will be free to sell goods with a content up to the new and higher limit values. We do not have the tradition of leaving responsibility for such matters to the market players in Norway. It would be like Norway's Automobile Association and KNA went out and said that their members would not drive faster; regardless of the increase in the speed limit, they would relate to the old speed limit. Increased emphasis has been placed on consumer information. This is actually a breach of a long Norwegian consumer policy tradition. This will lead to a class distinction in the trading desk between those who can read declarations and those who cannot. It also weakens the country's protection against vulnerable groups to leave it to business. The effect is demonstrably negative and indisputable. There are no health arguments that say we should adapt to this directive. People in Norway should be protected by the law and should not have little on the assessments of the daily food industry. We should use the right of reservation. This is about health, the environment and safety in Norway, and it has little economic significance for the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e353	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e357	The provisions for the additives that we are discussing today are important and have created discussion and commitment, but perhaps most in special environments. I cannot see that there is any particular queue in the press room or in the audience gallery when the Norwegian legislative assembly is about to say what we think about these directives. Exposures have also occurred in EU countries prior to the introduction of the Directives. Does the representative Karlstrøm believe that these countries have gambled with the health of their people? There is also a broad political consensus in Norway that the EEA Agreement is a major advantage for Norway, including for industry. Does the representative Karlstrøm believe that it is likely that the European Commission would have imposed negative political constraints on us if we had used the veto right?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e364	I don't think the European Union is gambling on people's health. But what's real is that consumers' interests in the EU lost and industrial interests won. Many consumer organisations in Europe expect Norway to use the right of reservation on this issue and show that there was a strong no in 1994. When there are not so many who are interested in this matter, it is perhaps because we have not had enough time to get it out of the public debate. As I said, I think we had barely a week to discuss it before we were going to give a preliminary position. As regards the importance of the EEA Agreement, I stressed it, and I think it is incredibly important for Norway that we have the EEA Agreement. I don't think the EEA Agreement is falling if you use the right of reservation. What this is about in this case is who will pay the price. The majority chooses that the allergy sufferers and the cancer sufferers pay the price.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e373	It's kind of interesting that the Christian People's Party has two of these directives in common with the SV, the Center Party and the Left and will vote against them. It concerns the various Directives and the Directives on colouring matters. If we go through the comments of the Christian People's Party – they are very much in the committee together with the Left and the Centre – they also express criticism that it has been too short to deal with the matter. And that's when I start to wonder. We know, of course, that these directives have been adopted in the European Union quite many years ago, and when the Igland government presented a communication on food quality and consumer safety in 1997, they made a promise that they would be quick to come up with a proposition on the three directives we are dealing with today. But then we got the Bondevik government – Kjell Magne Bondevik is also present in the hall here today – and very many will agree with the Progress Party that it happened very little in the two and a half years we had Bondevik government. It is because I do not understand this criticism that it has been too bad. Why wasn't the Christian People's Party active when they put in government and had the opportunity to take the lead in this matter? It will be my question to the representative of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e378	The Bondevik administration worked very actively with this matter to get other solutions, so it is not right that you have not worked with it. What was my point was that there was too little time for the Great Britain and the public debate to engage and inform the people. It is the debate that has become too short of time, and that is why there are not so many who are now in the press room. The Labour Party had been sitting for a while on the matter, and that we then have so little time to deal with it in Stortinget, I think it is critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e385	I record Mrs. Karlstrøm's somewhat frustrated conduct, and it is clear that when only the central press is present, it is not the whole world. With regard to the time aspect, that there has not been any time for public debate, I have never been able to agree that when we set up the race in the Committee, as well as to measure how much time we must have in the Committee to initiate a public debate – on directives that have been in place since 1994. There has been excellent opportunity to hold seminars up poles and down walls, so I don't take it. What's the interesting question here today, at my discretion, is whether or not to use the right of reservation. It has not been used in relation to the EEA Agreement. And as Vollebæk aptly said, it can only be used in the extreme emergency – not only in an emergency, but in the extreme emergency. I assume that the then Foreign Minister spoke out on behalf of the Bondevik government and the parties that were there. So if you agreed at the time when the statement fell – to the extent that you were – you are not today, because the Central Party is relatively predictable about everything, while the Christian People's Party is kind of a bit on one side and a little on the other. I have two questions for the representative Karlstrøm. Is she in agreement with Vollebæk's emphasis on the seriousness of exercising the right to reserve, and is it the basis of the Christian People's Party voting for something and against something today? And the second is: does Randi Karlstrøm not believe that the use of the right of reservation has any significance for our relationship with the EU and the satisfaction we will be able to achieve from a negotiating party that will eventually get hundreds of times as many inhabitants as the EFTA pillar?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e398	I am not frustrated that there is so little pressure here, because I know that Norwegian consumer policy is actually a rather weak area in Norway. So it was expected. Therefore, as a politician, I feel a very need to take this responsibility, because there are not many strong lobbyists among consumers in Norway. They're badly organized. Of course, I share Vollebæk's vision. There is also the argument that we want to use the right of reservation: we think these matters have such a degree of seriousness compared to several groups in the Norwegian community. Of course, it's a balance, but someone has to pay the price, and we choose that the allergy sufferers and those who are exposed to cancer do not have to pay that price. We won't put them in any more danger. The EEA Agreement will not fall into this. The matter has little economic significance for the EU, while it has a major health significance for us. It also has many other principles in it. It's a fundamental clarification as to whether we're going to stand on what we've done so far with the state taking responsibility for people's health, or whether we're going to leave it to the food chain. And I want people to have confidence that the state will take this responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e407	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e410	As can be seen from today’s position, the Right is in favour of the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the three directives we are dealing with. And as I said earlier, the directives are not of a new date, they are actually six-seven years old, so it was therefore high time that the matter was sent to the Stortinget from the Government. The rapporteur went through the facts of the individual directives, with all the foreign words that come out there, so I shall only dwell on it to a limited extent. In recent years, governments have tried to bring about changes that would maintain national provisions for some of the substances. This has probably been the case with all the governments involved since the first directive came in 1994. Following the Commission’s rejection in December 1998, the Norwegian authorities addressed the possibility of alternative solutions. Here, as far as I am aware, it is still not entirely clear whether transitional arrangements can be discussed, inter alia. for cyclamate. For the sake of completeness, it must be mentioned that for most of the 340 additives in the Directives, the Directive is unproblematic. In fact, for some of the substances, EU borders have been lower than those permitted in Norway. The debate today has naturally concentrated on the substances nitrite and nitrate, the so-called azocolourants and sweetener cyclamate. I have not heard anyone in the debate today, and not before, who has expressed himself with great joy, enthusiasm and enthusiasm that we are now getting legislation that allows higher values of the substances mentioned earlier. It is also not in the thrill the right goes in to incorporate these. The Directives provide a basis, they do not impose an obligation to increase the use of some of these additives. As mentioned, there are substances already in use in Norway but with other maximum levels. Thus, when the Right is voting for the inclusion of the directives today, it is not in particular a matter of interest, but because we find the three directives to be of such a nature that we will not be exposed to the risk that Norway will face of its relationship with the EU, both legally and politically, to vote against inclusion. We have been presented with studies on the presumed health risk through the proposition, consultation and other inputs if one uses the maximum limits of the four substances mentioned above. I think it is necessary once again to clarify, even though it has been done in the past in the debate, that it is if we apply the maximum limits. The changes in the rules themselves are as far as I have understood, not harmful to health. I have no reason to deny any of the scientific studies we have received. This applies to what has been done in other Scandinavian countries as well. And the right has assumed that they are right and find no reason to believe that there's something attached to those who are not inferior. Nor do I want to minimize the possible negative health aspects mentioned in this case. The Government has chosen, as indicated in the proposal, to focus on what the Norwegian food industry and the food industry have expressed in terms of their attitudes to the use of the new maximum levels. As I said, regulatory changes do not imply an obligation, but an opportunity to raise the maximum level for some of these substances. The industry seems to be in line with the Danish grocery trade and the food industry, which is that one does not take this opportunity as this big decision, which we are likely to adopt here today, gives. I think that's a sensible position and a sensible strategy you've taken to try to eliminate as much of the health risks we've been presented to us, not least through the hearing we had. On the right, we have tried to assess the legal and political implications of Norway’s use of the option to reserve itself against the development of justice in the EU by voting against the inclusion of the relevant directives. That it will have legal effects must be beyond doubt. Nevertheless, I agree with those who claim that one should not exaggerate the European Union's counter-reactions in the legal way. I think that will be limited, because the whole point is that the balance of the EEA Agreement should be maintained so that the countermeasures should be harmonised with what we oppose. For in any legal community, the agreement is such that one will have to rectify the balance if one party does something. Such an incentive for the EU to require such negotiations, or to put them into action unilaterally, is not Right-wing willing to take the risk. We don't know what the concrete measures will mean. We don't know what they're going to contain. However, we know what the procedures are, they are described in the agreement, but what will be the concrete counter-reaction, there will be faith, doubt and assumption. We are also familiar with the responses that have come from the EU and the act that is taking place between Sweden and Denmark and the EU. That's a situation we've chosen to look at. However, we know that there are two main options in terms of the legal steps, and it is either the most dramatic – which is very unlikely – that the whole EEA agreement should be put on the boat, and that is what can happen in the legal process that may result from the European Union putting into effect what follows from Article 102 of the Agreement. What the contents of it will be, we don't know, but restoring the balance will of course be required. The second main option that the EU has in terms of countermeasures is, of course, political pressure. We've been more of a part of it. We know that cooperation with the EU is constantly evolving and is progressive, and that a notification of the right of reservation will obviously weaken us in the ongoing dialogues we have and must be expected to need. If we were to start applying the right of reservation in time and in time, it is quite obvious that we have to pay for such an attitude. Fullebæk's indication and warning of using this only in case of extreme emergency seems to me to be very relevant also in relation to the situation the Storting is in right now. I hardly think it is any other than opponents of the whole EEA Agreement who will seriously claim that the use of the right of reservation is irrelevant to our relationship with the EU and the future of the EEA Agreement. In the opinion of the right-hand side, the EEA Agreement works well for Norwegian employment and business, and any decision that could contribute to risking this framework must be considered very carefully. I also assume that all the parties mentioned in the setting have done so. For the right part, we have made such an assessment. What opponents of the whole EEA Agreement think about the use of the right of reservation within the agreement, I don't think is particularly interesting. So, as we can see from the setting, only the centre party and SV will go against the inclusion of all three directives. Yes, the comment from SV even states that it is important to try out the right to reserve, almost as an experiment. It is the kind of irresponsibility that I am pleased that today's setting will ensure that the day's light will not be seen. The position of the parties to the application of the right of reservation is likely to be naturally related to the positions of the same parties to the EEA Agreement and to the European Union in general, but one must admit it honestly. Because it's clear that the threshold for using the most dramatic is important in relation to it. We know, in my opinion, too well how important the EEA Agreement is for Norwegian industrial workplaces and for the export industry in general, and so from the right we are not willing to launch an experiment on the right of reservation relating to the three directives that we are currently dealing with, although it is such that the potential health risks that we have received as professional advice are not in any way ignored, nor am I making a trivial one. That it has been proven scientifically that it will lead to between zero and two additional cancers in addition to the 20,000 we have in Norway, we know. And that it's negative for allergy sufferers are raised beyond doubt. However, after an overall assessment, the Right has come to the conclusion that we are choosing to vote for inclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e439	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e442	It may be of some interest, at a certain point, as regards the EU and the EEA Agreement. However, one cannot afford to come to a point where one has to discuss the real content of the matter, and then it is a matter of consumer policy. As I see it, the right balance, in a way, the health risk becomes less important than future export opportunities – if we cut through here. We have a different view of it. I have two questions: would there have been any difference for the Right if the opinion of the Food Authority and the commercial industry had not come? That's the one. The second question is, how long does the Right believe that such a commitment will last? A year? Five years? Ten years? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e449	Balancing conflicting interests is always difficult. That is, of course, what life consists of — weighing and making decisions in which there are clearly arguments that speak for more points of view. This is of course the case in this case as well. In terms of health risk, we've got it illuminated. It is the same when the representative Karlstrøm chooses to provide massive support, about 6 billion kroner, to producers of milk, which all health statistics show that drinking is lethal, as well as a lot of other things that increase the fat content and cholesterol and I don't know what. We've been presented with reports that are nth power in relation to what this is, the risks associated with different things. Allowing to drive a car involves a great risk – it is killed 200-300. There's a risk of everything. The only thing that's certain is that living is a risk. That's the same thing in this case. And I'm not stuck under the chair that it's supposed to be between zero and two cancer cases more in the Norwegian population if the maximum rates were applied. Now, however, everything indicates that it will not actually happen. So the representative asks, what if the opinion hadn't arrived? Yes, I don't think it's interesting to answer those questions. It's almost like asking: what would have happened if my father hadn't met my mother? It's relatively uninteresting. And then she asks from a hypothesis how long I think this will last. I think that is even less interesting. If I were to say that I think it's one year or that I think it's five years, then to the extent that one answer is as good as the other. If there is a current problem, the government has something to do. It has to throw itself around and see if there are other measures it is possible to put in place to eliminate the health risk that the government itself has said is there, but it has now been decided to rest a lot on that agreement. If it falls away, we have to look at the matter again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e457	I hear that the Right attaches great importance to health hazards and health risks. If it is then that Right knows that milk is harmful to health, then I think that Right should do something about it in relation to our law. So the question of whether this case is too small or too large for us to use the right of reservation. The majority who have spoken up to now say that it is too small a case to use that right of reservation – we have to wait for a bigger and more important case. At the same time, they say that the EU's countermeasures in this very small case will probably be so serious for us that it can go beyond the whole EEA Agreement. This isn't hanging out in the jump. The right was early outside and provided the Workers' Party with a back cover; if the Workers' Party changed its mind and went in to approve these substances, the Right would make sure that there was a majority. The azo dyes have been banned since 1978, and we don't know how dangerous they are. But the Workers' Party and the Government write the following: ‘Extensive use of azo dyes is likely to result in a number of people, especially children with some type of allergy, react with hypersensitivity’. How many people have such hypersensitivity reactions? There are four times as many people today visiting a doctor one or more times a year because of allergies as it was 20 years ago – there are 40 pst. by the population. In our hearing it was said that there are 250,000 people with serious health problems due to allergies. In establishing the ADI, permitted daily consumption within the EU, hypersensitivity reactions are not considered to be health disorders. Then one of the major questions is: what are the effects of allowing increased exposure of these substances? And there's a lot of people here who can get these plagues. Does the Right not care about the documentation provided to the Committee in writing and orally?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e473	First in relation to what is dangerous and not dangerous: I did not say that the Right believes that milk is dangerous. I said: We have received a report from nutritionists who believe that almost everything is dangerous, even carrots are not supposed to have too much of it. As the representative Morten Lund can see, I don't place any emphasis on what these nutritionists thought you should eat and not take, because life has other aspects as well. But in this case, the right-hand side focuses on the health aspect of this case: yes, it is clear. That's the only argument that speaks for not including this. There are good arguments, we have scientific evidence that emerges from the proposition itself, and we have got it presented in the hearing. We've been able to figure out what this could mean for allergy sufferers, and we've been able to figure out how many cancer cases there might be in addition to the 20,000 we have – if you apply the maximum rates. And now all the indications are that that's not the case. Secondly, the fact that it does not hang together, the EEA agreement is at stake, etc. No, I said the opposite. I believe it in the legal track is limited what will happen. I don't think it's a question of the European Union putting into action the most dramatic if we were to go against this. But if there was to be some kind of political inflation in the exercise of the right of reservation, and if these directives go under what former Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk had under the vignette ‘the extreme cases’, I think we are in a dangerous development. It is the smooth, future dialogue with the EU I think it is important to think about when we deal with the individual directive. It is after an overall assessment of both what speaks for it and what speaks against it that, despite the fact that there are health arguments that contradict it, we have agreed to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e484	The representative Advisor Gabrielsen warned against using the right of reservation on time and without time. There is no reason to fear that it would become a habit, so far the right of reservation has not been used! So this thing with time and uterus doesn't work quite well in this context. Then the representative referred to SV's comments and was concerned that SV would lead the country into an experiment. Would it not be reasonable, correct and interesting to try out the right of reservation, which has never been tried, in a case of relatively small importance to the EU, rather than waiting for a case that may be much more serious for Norway, and where is the potential for conflict with the EU much greater? That's what we mean when we say that it would be interesting to try out the reservation right. It is also the case with regard to agreements and cooperation that cooperation is developed by testing different aspects of the works of agreement and cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e491	I totally disagree with the representative Rugtvedt in setting up such a line in foreign policy that when there are international agreements that we have not tried to conflict before, it is important to test out this as well: how far can we go without the finger burning? Such an attitude, I think, is totally reprehensible as an approach to this. Of course, once a reservation-right clause has been included in the EEA Agreement, it is in order for it to be used in cases of extreme urgency. But if we were to start an experiment from Norway to try out and see what's going on – such a bit of tension, follow along – let me say it like this: I'm glad it's not SV that runs Norwegian foreign policy. This is an experiment that I can't imagine in any way. Otherwise, in the case of these three directives, I suppose the President noticed that for sea salmon there is no danger.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e500	The President has followed closely with regard to special varieties. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e505	For the government, the health care of people means less than the freest free trade. State Secretary Espen Barth Eide has said it this way, according to the Times of the World: ‘The question of EU food make-up is not primarily about potential health hazards, but about the risk of countermeasures against Norwegian fish exports.’ When the EEA Agreement was approved, the tone was quite different: free trade, but only as long as it does not threaten our health and the environment. We have secured the right to reserve ourselves against the individual directive, they said at the time. At a time when ‘safe food will cost what it will’ is the main headline in all media across Europe, the Workers’ Party, the Right and the Advance Party of the Government’s proposal to accept the food make-up directives and to increase health risks. Our health authorities maintain that health risks are increasing. There are no benefits for Norwegian consumers, for trade or for the food industry by using new – or more of some other – additives. The EU requirement that these rules should also be coordinated is the only argument. The consideration of sound treatment in the Grand Duchy has been put aside equally sovereignly: barely three weeks from treatment in the Council of State to preliminary referral to the Economic and Social Committee, the observations of the Advocate-General four days before the hearings and three days after the hearings – all in order for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to be able to tell in Brussels on 15 December what he could have said on the day on which the Government had decided. And it was decided by the media before October 3. What he could say was that when the Government, out of the Labour Party, decides to support the Progress Party and the Right in the Storting, there is a large majority for the Food Mining Directives. The main strategy of the government has been to avoid a public debate on its health-threatening turnaround — costing what it will cost for the government. It was the government of Jagland as in 1997 in St.meld. No 40 – the food notification – assured that: ‘no use of additives shall be permitted in Norway where there are professional assessments demonstrating/documenting health hazards for consumers in general or for specific consumer groups based on the Norwegian diet pattern’. The food make-up directives we are examining were well known at the time, and the government of Jagland mentioned the health-threatening substances by name – eight in total. The Bondevik government extended the list to 14. The proposal confirms that the health conclusions have not been changed: ‘It is assessed by the Norwegian professional authorities that some specific provisions of the three EU food additives directives — in different ways and for different reasons — may increase the health risk to the whole or part of the population.’ But the government has changed its position without a new round of consultations with its professional authorities or with the most vulnerable groups of the population. During the Committee's consultation, the Health Director said that: ‘to accept increased use of the additives mentioned in St.prp. No 12 is an unfortunate signal in relation to the rate of cancer prevention, allergy and safe food in Norway. In principle, therefore, the Health Authority considers that Norwegian MRLs should be maintained’. In the hearing of the Committee, the Minister of Health said that the following criteria must be met in order to authorise the increased or new use of additives: firstly, there must be a technological need; secondly, doses must not pose a health hazard and thirdly, it must not mislead consumers. The government's conclusion is contrary to all three requirements. The only notion of the usefulness of these substances has come from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which, in a letter to the Committee, it is considered that there may be a need for a completely new blue-coloured shower in the market, but that it cannot be confirmed until the azo dye that gives this news has been used. The opinion shows that this government is more market-free than any market player. The open hearings were also a confirmation of consumer resistance to authorising an increased health hazard. Consumers were represented at the Consumer Council, the Norwegian Landsorganisation, Food and Environment Networks – representing 20 nation-wide organisations, with 400,000 members – the Norwegian Asthma and Allergi Associations and the Norwegian Women's Association. The Director of the Consumer Council was unambiguous in his negative attitude to the inclusion of the three Directives. That's an unnecessary risk, he said. The asthma and Allergy Association is likely to represent the large number that will be affected if the azo dyes that have been banned since 1978 are approved. The risk is well documented, and fear is great, among other things. because the consumption of these substances has increased strongly in the EU after allowing some freer use. This has happened despite the fact that consumers in the EU have expressed the same scepticism as we do. The food industry and trade have fully supported consumer scepticism, including in the Committee’s hearings. Their statements that they do not want to produce or sell food with more additives than they do today express a positive and customer-friendly attitude. But some future, secure guarantee for consumers would never be such an attitude or consensus. Any attempt to make the exclusion of products with new or increased additives effective risks being unlawfully convicted under the EEA Free Trade Code. Such a risk cannot be expected to be taken by the sole proprietor, when the government does not dare. The statement that Rimi-Hagen and Rema-Reitan have promised to take care of our health is the only fig leaf of Foreign Minister Jagland to hide that he recommends a new, health-threatening and totally useless add-on regime. Trade and industry keep this fiche in place for fear that the EU's sanctions against our exports will be as extensive as the Government claims. But where is it fig leafed by if ESA finds it an illegal matter, or on the day that the first of the chains or factories finds it necessary or profitable to move to a new European standard instead of a safe Norwegian standard? The fig leaf will disappear, and it will be the individual consumer who will have to look into the shelves to avoid increased cancer risk or the family allergy will not tolerate. There is fear of countermeasures from the EU following a Norwegian reservation, which is indicated as the main reason why health concerns have to wane. I think it is total and rapid EU adaptation that is the real reason, both from Norwegian parties and from EU strategists – the difference to full membership should be minimised before the next EU fight. It may have far-reaching consequences for the Norwegian export industry, claims the Government. And the fish example has been used extensively by more than the State Secretary, even though EU Ambassador Maddison has confirmed that it cannot be imagined. In my opinion, the U.D.'s view is a clear mistrust that the EU will comply with its part of the EEA Agreement. The legal content of the investigation section of Storting on questions from the Central Party leaves no doubt that there are only hostile EU positions that could lead to such comprehensive safeguards as the Government threatens on behalf of the EU. The big question after a solid majority in Stortinget has found its place behind Minister of Foreign Affairs Jagland's fig leaf is: do we have a real right of reservation, or is the Stortinget in a forced situation each time a new directive is to be dealt with? Is it the most powerful right to apply whenever a disputed directive comes to the fore? Does it mean, then, that the Stortinget was deceived when the EEA Agreement was adopted without amending the Constitution, which provided that the Stortinget has a real right to reserve itself against the individual Directive? There will hardly be a more ideal case to confirm that the right of reservation is real, because: no ongoing EU trade will be stopped by a reservation there are well documented health considerations at the bottom of such a decision there is a strong public commitment in support of the position some of the provisions are disputed also in the EU These are crucial elements, according to the legal considerations delivered, which must be taken into account when negotiating after a reservation. By accepting these directives, we lose the right to adopt more stringent rules in this area later than the EU has. Within the EU, it is clear that health concerns have little impact. From 1996 onwards, the EU Scientific Committee on Food Safety has sought a strong reduction of the permitted levels of nitrate, which can cause carcinogens. But there's someone who doesn't want to, and they have the power. If we accept the EU directive, we must also ask them about the law that serves the most to have a high level of artificial and partly health-threatening additives. The centre party believes that it is cowardly and irresponsible not to take up the fight against the EU system in this matter in order to protect people’s health, and to show both outside and at home that the precautionary principle applies. Booking does not conflict with the EEA Agreement. This does not happen to protect Norwegian commercial interests, and it will follow a process where Norway has authorised more than 60 new additives in order to reserve itself against a very small number. If we do not use this right after the EU has not moved one millimetre in the negotiations, there is a risk that the right of reservation will become a useless tool for later cross roads. The government’s argument about the extent of possible EU countermeasures in this matter has weakened our future position in such cases. Under the EEA Agreement, the EU is under an obligation not to put into action protective measures which are more invasive than are necessary to restore the balance of the agreement. The WTO Agreement also provides such protection for ‘the weak party’ in any trade conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e587	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e590	The fact that the representative Morten Lund would like to see our cooperation with the EU phased out, there can be no particular doubt after this article. That Morten Lund also tried to make it so that the Labour Party and the plural did not want a public debate on this, there is no doubt either, since in the media he managed to present it so that we would have opposed an open hearing, when the proposal came from me – just in order to clarify publicly what this is. What makes Morten Lund disappointed is that the media was present half that day, but then they had clearly found out that this was not of the character that was produced. So I'd like to ask Morten Lund: why is it so powerful for the representative Morten Lund and the Central Party to produce it so that the food industry will not in any way survive what they have said? They should rather – whether it is the case that the representative Morten Lund and the Senterpartie are so afraid of the health risk that is well there – try to produce it so that we will marvel at this that the food industry survives! But then they do the opposite. I would like to know if it is also part of a strategy to try to terminate the EEA Agreement as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e597	This is not a discussion for or against the EEA Agreement. There is a discussion about the possibilities we have within the agreement to reserve ourselves in individual cases. In this case, there is good evidence that there is an increased health risk associated with the authorisation of these Directives. It is well documented that there is no need for these additives in industry and it is well documented that consumers do not benefit from them. There are totally useless additives and an increased use of these additives. Then, based on what has previously been said by the Workers' Party and others, we will be able to use our right of reservation. Where that is not significant and does not prevent any trade taking place today, it must be possible to use that right of reservation without being afraid of strong countermeasures. So to the method of treatment. To spend a few days on such a matter as this when we can otherwise use months, which often happens, I think is critical. There are many who would have liked to take part in this debate, and of course it could also be a different decision. I had hoped that there had been a different decision in the matter. With regard to the declaration by the trade and the food industry: the Danish Parliament does not trust the agreement that has been made there. They say they want to go to court to get exemptions from the rules, because their dietary habits are different. That's what we also say. We have other dietary habits – we have documented this – than what the EU has focused on. We're going to take our people into account based on the real situation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e606	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e610	Through the three EEA directives we are dealing with today, we are required to amend the Norwegian rules introduced to protect our health. There is no new health knowledge to change the legislation on additives. It is due to the free flow of goods that requires everyone to have the same bad legislation in this area. We should not allow ourselves to be guided by goods. A large number of instances have spoken out. They have represented consumers, food producers and distributors. No one has thought that the directives are going to give us something positive, or that they are going to fill a need. On the contrary, many have provided well-founded criticism. Nor has the Government, according to the proposition, wished for these directives. Increased use of nitrate and nitrite will pose cancer risks. For the treatment of meat containing these substances, they are converted into nitrosamines, which are carcinogenic. Nor is it appetising to know that these are substances that are suitable to cover the lack of hygiene. Even today, there is concern that the meat in Norwegian shops is safe to eat. What we need least of all is even more uncertainties when we trade meat. Azo dyes are currently authorised to such a small extent that they do not endanger the population as a whole. The Directive allows for the widespread use of these allergenic dyes in products such as soft drinks, confectionery, ice cream, snacks and desserts. In other words, they want to appear in children's favorites. It can be a heavy educational task for those who have children in danger, to teach them to read well on the labels and to refrain from what has the most fun colors. The proposition states that the substances may trigger hypersensitivity reactions in some. It's unclear how many of these could be. Danish, Swedish and American studies suggest that it could be between 500 and 2 000 people for Norway. Increased use of azo dyes can therefore be a serious problem for quite a lot of people. The Sweeteners Directive provides for the use of a number of sweeteners, of which cyclamate is the most problematic. It is not easy to understand why we should swallow this when even the European Scientific Committee recommends a daily dose well below the limit of the directive. Norway is asking for a transitional arrangement. SV believes that we should say no to this directive. Thus, SV believes that Norway should exercise the right of reservation and not accept any of the three directives. There are more solar health arguments against all three. When the Liaison Committee had its hearing, it became clear that the leading point in this case was the view of the right of reservation in the EEA and the fear of reactions from the EU. When this becomes the most important argument, it is strange that the Committee has not given more emphasis to having the right to reserve. No experts were invited to the hearing under EEA law. An interesting investigation, ordered by the Central Party through the Stortinges Investigation Section, was held on the same day as the Foreign Affairs Committee dealt with the matter. The majority decided that the Committee should not take time to examine the investigation before issuing a hearing opinion. The investigation establishes a number of interesting aspects. Dr. Juris Finn Arnesen of the Centre for European Law says: ‘The EEA Agreement opens the door to protective measures with an unbiased average’. Pure criminal responses are thus a little topical. Finn Arnesen goes on to say: ‘Reservatory access is unconditional and undisputed. It is therefore hardly appropriate to see it so that a use of reservation access in itself triggers a dispute over the understanding or application of the EEA Agreement.» The right of reservation was used as an argument for the EEA Agreement. If the right of reservation is to be effective, it must be capable of being used. We have here a case where there are clear health arguments to apply the right of reservation. The EU will not be able to claim that we are going to grind our own national cake, or that we will sneak away from common commitments. On the contrary, strict Norwegian standards will primarily have consequences for producers in Norway. It makes a very serious weakness visible in the EEA Agreement if it is not possible to maintain standards which have purely health grounds. Trade in food has promised that they do not wish to change practices as regards the additives to be marketed. It is positive that the trade in goods has taken such a position, even if it is not in the form of an agreement, as we could first get the impression. However, it is very unlikely that this position from the grocery trade will have a particularly long shelf-life and will withstand the marketing of products containing the additives in question. SV considers that it is regrettable that Norway should not show political courage to uphold the health arguments against the additives in question. In this area, Norway could act as a driver – if only we dare.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e652	In the interests of public health, the Left is in favour of Norway reserving itself to two of the three EU directives on food additives that we are dealing with today. In the view of the Left, the health counter-arguments are so strong that Norway should not accept higher maximum levels of azocolourants and preservatives nitrite and nitrate. I am disappointed and worried about the long-term effects of the fact that the bulk of the population with the Workers' Party in the head chooses to ignore the health professional arguments. Not least in view of the growing concern about the quality of food offered to Norwegian consumers, it is essential that people can rely on politicians and authorities, trust that in this room we follow professional advice and use the best available risk assessments on food security issues. If we do not do so, but choose either to listen to professional advice and to shift responsibility to others, or to crisis maximize and play on fear and emotion, the Stortinge will lose confidence and respect for food security, consumer policy and public health issues. For this reason, the Left, together with the Christian People's Party, has chosen a line where we listen to the technical advice, and Norway believes that it should reserve itself against azocolourants and nitrite/nitrate, while we are committed to accepting the directive on the sweetener cyclamate. Nitrite and nitrate are preservatives which can be converted into carcinogens in meat products. The European Commission’s own scientific advice has strongly warned against the substances and considers them to be serious health risks. In addition to the risk of cancer, increased limits on substances may act as a sleeping cushion in relation to maximising hygiene in food production. This has chosen the Left to listen to. The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right have chosen not to do so. The azo dyes may cause allergic reactions in vulnerable groups, especially in children. Allergy is an increasing problem among the population, and Norway has gone beyond most European countries in prevention and focus on these problems. Allowing new substances known to be allergenic will be a step backwards in this work. I am not among those who want to use the food makeup to create a black and white image where the EU has the bad role, while Norway's conscience is clean in terms of safe and healthy food. It's not that simple. The provisions on additives in Norway and the EU are quite similar, and in terms of health, the vast majority of substances and quantity limits are unproblematic. In some cases, the effective implementation of EU rules means tightening Norwegian rules. The left will therefore not participate in any action against EU food policy and the EEA Agreement in general. Now that we're going in to reserve ourselves for two of the three directives in question, it's just because the health arguments are so strong, and because all the alternatives other than the reservation have already been tried. The left attaches great importance to not undermining the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement is a good form of association with the EU, which ensures Norway access to the entire EU market and which has a predominantly positive influence on Norwegian laws and regulations. Therefore, the right of reservation is not to be used in outlaws and the Left is set to accept the third relevant Directive on the sweetener cyclamate. In this respect, good transitional arrangements are likely to be obtained pending the most likely adjustment of the EU’s permitted limits to Norwegian levels. One of the main points for the trailers of the food make-up directives is that Norwegian food chains and food manufacturers signal that they do not intend to exploit the potential of the bulk of large quantities now giving them to offer consumers higher doses of dangerous health additives. It's a great initiative. I hope and believe that Norwegian consumers also help to hold up the pressure to make the food we are offered even cleaner and healthier, not the opposite. But this, of course, does not relieve Stortinget of the responsibility for ensuring that food on the Norwegian market meets essential health requirements. It may not be such that the authorities are now free to have an opinion on what are health-appropriate limit values for different substances. It is to introduce a completely new policy practice in Norway, a practice that will make it impossible for Norwegian citizens to have faith in and respect for the fact that their elected representatives are doing their utmost to ensure their health and safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e671	The size is today invited to take decisions on a matter of harmonisation of legislation to ensure the free movement of foodstuffs within the EEA territory. It concerns the introduction of three Directives concerning additives which may be used in foodstuffs. It must be obvious that it is in Norway's interest that we do not see ourselves outside this trading market. But the additive in food is a matter that arouses strong feelings, insecurity and thus also often fear. We all have a reasonable claim that the food we buy is qualitatively good and does not pose a health risk. Norway has established good standards and practices for additives in food, schemes that have great confidence in the Norwegian people. Norwegian food is considered safe, natural and good. And it's important that we also have it like this in the future. The majority of the Industry Committee also sees good prospects for establishing mechanisms to ensure the continuation of existing standards and practices in Norway, even if the three Directives are fully implemented. The directive opens up the use of additives where most of them are already in use in Norway, but where there are suggested higher limits than those we have today. It is also worth noting that the directives provide guidelines for maximum limits, which have been introduced by several speakers in the past, rather than minimum limits. It must also be noted in the image that Norwegian food producers and the daily food industry have stated that their current practice of using these substances in food is not to be changed on the Norwegian market, although EU legislation is incorporated into Norwegian legislation. This helps to ensure that there is a sufficiently low risk of health damage by including the directives, as I see it. Some of these substances proposed in the Directives may be of health concern if they are used in large quantities. Most substances are currently used in Norwegian products, but in smaller doses than those permitted by these Directives. The working party therefore believes that it will have a lot to say that both Norwegian-produced and imported food is clearly and well labelled with good product declarations, to include: allergies and others should be able to easily remove products with given additives if they want. It is also important that public authorities implement relevant information measures aimed at Norwegian consumers. Such information must be easily understandable and in particular: contain information on the effects, uses, potential health risks and recommendations on daily intake. It is not a disclaimer from the authorities' side that the consumer is better able to choose products for himself on the basis of additional information and better and relevant labelling from the food industry and the authorities' side, rather on the contrary. For the Workers' Party, it is natural that their influence is strengthened. Active information directed at the general population and against groups in particular will help to strengthen this impact, together with a better labelling of both packaged and unpacked goods. In this context, it is important that consumer organisations have power and impact. We must not forget that these rules, including the directives we are dealing with today, are not static and finite. New knowledge and consumer requirements will always affect the design of the new rules. The EU's research committee must constantly seek and assess new knowledge in this field and then recommend the content of the directives. It is against this background that the Labour Party has put forward the following proposals, which were also endorsed by the majority of the Committee: ‘The Government requests proposals to be made by the Government to clarify the requirements for clear and easily understandable declarations of goods and content/labelling of foodstuffs. For food without packaging, a system of its own must be established. Particular attention must be paid to the requirements of allergens and others for clear declarations of goods and content. There is also reason to remind you that when it applies to St.prp. No 12, which we are dealing with today, will shortly be sent out to hear a change of regulations for the labelling of unpackaged goods. This will help users find their way into the jungle.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e702	When assessing a health risk in the environment, it is natural to assess the risk in relation to the perceived benefit of using the substance in question. The questions that we ask ourselves include:: how widespread is the health risk associated with the use of this substance and how serious is any harm to the health of the affected person? Another important question is whether it is possible to establish any hazard limits for the concentration of the different substances. However, in the current debate we can largely ignore this, as it is consistently argued that it is not possible to set such safe limits. The so-called various Directives concern the use of nitrite and nitrate as preservatives for food products. The aim is to improve the durability and stabilise the colour. The Diverse Directive allows these substances to be used in higher concentrations and also in a few more commodities than has been done in Norway in the past. Nitrite can react with amines in food and lead to formation of carcinogenic nitrosamines. The amount of nitrosamine produced is dose-dependent in relation to nitrite/nitrate concentration, and the Government itself indicates in the proposition that there is no lower limit where it can be certain that there is no tumour development. It is also noted that nitrosamines in Denmark are estimated to lead to additional cancer deaths of a frequency equivalent to two deaths in Norway per year. years, based on current intake of nitrite/nitrate. There is reason to believe that higher concentrations, as proposed in the Directive, will further increase the risk of cancer. It is worth noting that the European Commission’s Scientific Committee on Food has identified the carcinogenic potential of nitrosamines and concluded that the use of nitrite/nitrate needs to be minimised. The directive on dyeing refers to so-called azocolourants that can cause allergic reactions. These colours are mostly prohibited in Norway from 1978, but the EEA Agreement has allowed some of them in very small quantities in very special products. The directive on colouring matters increases the number of approved azo dyes from 8 to 17, and 12 of these can be used in a large number of foodstuffs. Allergic reactions and allergy-related diseases are increasingly a problem in Norway today. As is known, an allergic reaction could be triggered by very small concentrations of an allergen. The government admits in the proposition that the azo dyes have been known for a long time to trigger hypersensitivity reactions and that life-threatening, or severe, reactions have been reported. Similarly, it is recognised that the increased use of these substances is likely to result in more people, especially children, responding with hypersensitivity. The third Directive, the Sweeteners Directive, concerns the substance cyclamate, which can cause large amounts of testicular damage and reduced sperm quality. This Directive opens up the use of cyclamate in several new foods. However, the EU Commission has indicated that we are likely to be modified because the EU Scientific Committee on Food has significantly reduced the acceptable daily intake levels. The Christian People's Party can therefore conclude that Norway is asking for a transitional regime until the EU has adopted new and lower limits. The Christian People's Party will place great emphasis on the views of the trade unions. Working health director Lars Hanssen – from whom I quote – said among other things. in open consultation within the Committee: ‘We can conclude by saying that we accept increased use of the additives mentioned in St.prp. point 12 is an unfortunate signal in relation to the rate of cancer prevention, allergy and safe food in Norway. In principle, therefore, the Health Authority considers that the Norwegian limit values should be maintained. It is also unfortunate to accept the EU Commission’s statement that already vulnerable groups such as allergy sufferers and diabetics, and especially children with these disorders, even to an even greater extent, should be on guard against the food they eat, cf. the statement in the Chapter of the Proposition. 4.3.2.4, fifth paragraph.’ In the public language, these Directives are referred to as the Food Mining Directives. That is a quite striking term. Now it's like a lot of us wanted to get us out better with a little makeup. Nevertheless, we will refrain from making up if this poses a health risk. And that's the point of this case. These additives are to a small extent necessary, they are partly unnecessary and can therefore cause health damage, not only to cancer or allergy, but also to the risk of infection as a result of ‘masking’ of products of poor quality. Because we have so limited use for the effects of these substances, there is an additional reason to take into account the side effects. The utility value is so small that there is no reason to accept the risk of increased concentrations and/or increased uses. The Christian People's Party will therefore oppose the inclusion of the various Directives and the Coloring Substances Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e729	The Health Minister will address the health aspects of this matter, I will limit myself to saying something about the impact on the EEA Agreement of any Norwegian reservation, which has been an important part of this debate. It should be noted that the EEA Agreement is our most comprehensive international agreement, and is of great importance for Norwegian business and therefore also for the value creation and welfare of Norway. It is therefore important for Norway to defend this agreement in a much changing Europe. The EEA Agreement gives us a number of rights and opportunities, but it also includes obligations. An important obligation is to contribute to the creation of uniform legislation across the EEA territory. We have the right to reserve, but we have to use this right with care not to deviate so much from the basic assumption of equal regulation that we risk putting EEA cooperation to the test. This is the reason for the statements made by former Minister of Foreign Affairs Knut Vollebæk that this right of reservation should be used in ‘extreme emergencies’. The right of reservation should be used, as he said, when vital Norwegian interests are at stake. If we on the Norwegian side also make reservations in other cases, we cannot prevent Iceland and Liechtenstein from doing the same. The sum of these actions could jeopardise EEA cooperation. Most of the permitted substances and quantity limits in the EU addendum directives are health-free. Only the provisions on the sweetener cyclamate, some azocolourants and preservatives nitrate/nitrite have been problematic. Initially, the Directives should have been incorporated into the EEA Agreement five to six years ago. We have not been told that we can maintain divergent national regulations. As stated in the proposal, Norwegian health authorities consider the health risk to be low, even if the directives are implemented in Norwegian legislation. The Consumer Council considers that consumers’ interests are protected by the fact that manufacturers and the daily food industry do not need or see any reason to change current practices. The EEA Agreement provides us with a certain opportunity to participate in the development of legislation in the fields covered by the Agreement. If we don't get our point of view, we can try to get special solutions. But when the other parties to the agreement can accept the rules, it will be extra difficult to convince them that the rules are not good enough for us. In view of the dialogue we have had with the Commission, it is the government's assessment that we have exhausted the possibilities to negotiate specific solutions for Norway. Furthermore, it is unlikely that we will achieve a more acceptable solution in total by linking a solution here to other unresolved issues in the EEA. Furthermore, we may risk that the EU will then have a different opinion from us as to which areas it is natural to connect. This suggests that Norway now has two alternatives: either to implement the three food additives directives, or that the EFTA/EEA countries, as the EU counterparty to the EEA Agreement, reserve themselves against incorporating the Directive provisions into the EEA Agreement – in daily terms the so-called ‘veto right’. If the EFTA/EEA countries make a reservation, the EU may respond by deeming the relevant parts of the agreement to be suspended. There is no doubt that this will affect the rules of the EEA Agreement on food. There is no legal basis in the agreement to oppose this. This could cause major practical problems for Norwegian export interests in this area. This could mean that Norwegian rules are not automatically considered equivalent to those of the EU and that Norwegian controls and certificates are not automatically taken into account in the internal market. Therefore, the export of food to the EU could require documentation or testing to ensure that the products comply with the same standard as required by their own legislation. This will lead to delays and increased export costs. If EU countries were to prevent Norwegian exports to a greater extent than is justified, it could take a long time to put an end to these obstacles. However, even if we were to make a reservation, we would not be free to prohibit the import of food from the EU containing the additives in question. We have to be able to justify that this is necessary to protect people's health. We can risk ESA bringing a case against Norway before the EFTA Court because they have a different view of the health risk and the need for a ban. It has not been clearly stated that the EFTA Court will share our view. We cannot simply exclude that the EU could have a different opinion from us on which parts of the EEA Agreement are directly affected by a possible reservation against the food additive directives. In the event of disagreement between us and the EU as to which parts of the EEA Agreement are to be considered as suspended, the disagreement must be resolved politically. We will not be able to bring that question before either the EFTA Court or the European Court of Justice. Moreover, it is beyond doubt that the application of the right of reservation for the three food additives Directives will cause significant pressures on the EEA co-operation climate. Political reactions from the European Union are likely to occur in addition to the automatic legal consequences that I have explained. This is perhaps the most far-reaching and at least understandable consequence of using the right of reservation. In an enlarged context, it could affect Norwegian business interests and also Norwegian interests at a time when it might be more important than ever to comply with the EEA Agreement. In its comments in the position of the Economic and Social Committee, the Centre has also stressed that it is: ‘not enough to look at the legally regulated penalties within the EEA Agreement when assessing the consequences of any veto in Norway’. However, they claim that there is little likelihood of a politically based response to damage to Norway. The party here refers to a consideration of Professor Dr. Juris Graver and Dr. Polit. Sverdrup, a consideration that is otherwise assumed to be the basis for the chronicles of the same gentlemen in the Evening Post yesterday. However, as far as I can see from the notion and the chronicle, Graver and Sverdrup disagree that it is likely that the EU is initiating political reactions that go beyond what is regulated in the EEA Agreement. They point to the fact that the case has important symbolic aspects, both because it is essentially a matter of central rules, and because the EU has rejected similar demands and arguments from some EU Member States. They therefore consider it likely that Norway will weaken its goodwill in the EU system and in a number of Member States through a no. However, no one can say with certainty the exact consequences of applying the right of reservation to the three food additives Directives. What is certain, however, is that it will have both legal and political consequences and that these will be serious. Finally, I want to say to Morten Lund about what he said here earlier, that they called yes-people, will accept the directives in order to bring about the fastest possible adaptation to the EU in order to pave the way for membership. It is just as wrong to claim this as it would be to claim that the Centre Party will have a Norwegian veto because the party is against the EEA Agreement, thereby undermining the EEA Agreement. Let's discuss with blank arguments and not attach such motives to each other. That's the argument that counts. We will accept the directives because we are in favour of the EEA Agreement. It involves both commitments and benefits to Norway. Where the Directives do not lead to changes in practice here in Norway, there is no need to make use of the right of reservation. There are also questions raised in the debate as to why the Norwegian Government has a different attitude than the Danish Folketinget and the Danish Government. It is not right that we have a different attitude than what has been expressed in Denmark. Denmark has had a similar desire as Norway to maintain national rules, but it has not been supported by the EU. Denmark has now amended its legislation in accordance with the Directives but has brought an action against the Commission of the European Communities. And I would like to remind you that Norway intervenes in favour of Denmark in this matter, so we have a similar position on this matter and also on how to deal with such directives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e770	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e773	The EEA Agreement is now approx. Ten years old. The then Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland put great emphasis on the right of veto, or what is now called the right of reservation, when she argued for the implementation of this agreement in the United Kingdom. It is clear, as the Foreign Minister said, that with such an agreement it follows both disadvantages and advantages. The Christian People's Party has not without a doubt seen it unproblematic to join the Cyclamate-related directive, but we have found it possible to accept this, in the light of the transitional regime to new limit values that the EU has set itself. But for health reasons, as other representatives of my party have argued, we have rejected the other two directives. We believe that this is a balanced, factual view of the document submitted to the Stortinget. The Minister of Foreign Affairs then quotes former Minister of Foreign Affairs Knut Vollebæk, who said in Stortinget that we must not deviate so much from the EU provisions that we are actually undermining this important EEA agreement, and that we should only deviate from it when vital Norwegian interests are at stake. For my part, I fully agree with both of these points of view, but it also has a relation to the matter we are dealing with here. For the time being, the veto law has not been used in Norwegian policy at all. So there has been no talk of any abuse or over-use of the right of reservation. When the Government does not wish to use this right of reservation in this case either, it may be due to one or more of the following alternatives: First, it may mean that the Government believes, and it is clear from the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement, that in this case this does not represent enough vital interests that can justify the use of the right of reservation, that the Government believes that this use should be reserved for a more important matter, such as: the patent Directive, or that the Government will not exercise the right of reservation at all. Which of these alternatives is the Foreign Minister trying to communicate to the Stortinge today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e782	I have to say that I am a little disappointed that the two and a half years that the Christian People's Party and the other two central parties used in government have not had a longer effect than what we now actually see in more matters. I think there was a reason why the government of Bondevik was also so restrained on this question as it was. That government also did not take the step of using the Norwegian reservation law, which could have been done in these cases, while you were in government. You could have driven this case to a treatment, but didn't. This case has been pending in Norway since 1994, and in the two and a half years under Bondevik, the Norwegian Government could have applied the Norwegian reservation law and had the matter clarified. There are none of the reasons that Steensnæs now lists, which underlie the attitude of the current government. We look from case to case at what is right for Norway to do, and we have not found that we should use the right of reservation in a case where these directives actually have no practical significance for Norway. In fact, manufacturers and retailers have no reason and no need to increase the amount of additives. And then we were going to use this right to say for political reasons, which I have the impression that you're doing now, to almost demonstrate that you want to use this right of reservation. And when you put yourself in government for everything and didn't use it, I think you have a syllable case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e789	I would like to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs as party leader and as former Prime Minister. In my opinion, during the last year, the Labour Party and the Labour Party Government have changed their position both in relation to the advice given by professional authorities and the important so-called precautionary principle of environmental policy. A year ago, for example, one experienced an accident. – quite alert – that the Workers’ Party chose to instruct the professional authorities, the SFT, in the gas power issue to change its position. In the food make-up case, then Stansminister Jagland said in connection with the so-called food message, St.meld. No 40 for 1996-97: ‘The use of additives shall not be permitted in Norway where there are professional assessments suggesting that the consumption of such substances poses a general health risk to consumers’.» And what do the professionals say today? Well, the health authorities have a comment on St.prp. No 12 said – and here we are talking about the Health Authority – that it is ‘an unfortunate signal in relation to the rate of cancer prevention, allergy and safe food in Norway’. It is the Council, it is the recommendation and it is the assessment of the Health Authority today. And then the Workers' Party chooses to ignore this. It cannot be argued with the agreement concluded with the grocery and food trade industries; this was known when the Health Authority came to an end. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs realise and understand that most people will perceive it so that the Workers' Party has changed its position both in relation to the professional authorities and in relation to the important precautionary principle of environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e816	I leave to the Minister of Health to explain exactly the health question. I just want to say that we have not changed anything about our position in relation to statements from professional authorities, they are taken very seriously in this case as well. What we're going to present here is consistent with what we wrote in the food message to which it refers. Then I would like to say since we are starting from the history: As you know, a government came right after this food message was submitted and treated in Stortinget, and if it is so that this matter is of such importance health-friendly as it has been claimed in this debate, why did not the government use the opportunity it had for 2 1⁄2 years to settle the matter? I have to ask it again. I also want to say that the truth was that you pushed a lot of things in front of you, not just EU-related issues, but also a lot of other things, where nothing happened at all. And in EU matters, they are pushed to the degrees that we are now facing some kind of problem with the EU by the fact that questions about these directives and other directives were actually raised at the EEA Council. According to the EEA Agreement, it is the place where the EU and EFTA countries meet formally, and when this was addressed there, there is every reason to take it seriously. You had driven this so far that you got to that point, and then the current government is actually going to have to do something. It's a good example that it doesn't pay to let things run. But the main question is, why didn't you get hold of this if it was as important as you now think?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e823	Today, we have got what we could call an Opseth guarantee that everything will be like before in the case of additives, because the representative Opseth went very far in saying that everything will be like before, nothing will change. In the autumn, the Minister for Foreign Affairs put great emphasis on the so-called agreement with the retail trade when he informed that Norway was going to accept the food make-up directives and the sweeteners directive. Had there been an obligatory agreement, this would probably have been contrary to the EEA Agreement. It would be beneficial for consumers to have a conscious policy of not selling food containing these carcinogens and allergenic food additives, even if it does not seem sustainable that it is the economic operators to replace policies and decisions and regulations. We also have no guarantee that this line will last over time. No one has committed himself to the authorities and none of the chains have committed themselves to each other. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs give any guarantee that this line will last from the grocery trade? And would the government be able to do anything if it turns out that these promises don't last more than a few months?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e831	It turns out in a number of other cases that you don't have any direct guarantees that you have safe food. That would show the debate and the examples for a long time. It is the policy and the positive measures that we can take, which provide the best possible guarantee. Nor did it guarantee that products with food additives up to the EU level were not sold in Norway because we could not oppose imports of such products into Norway. In that case, the EEA Agreement had to be terminated. That's what SV and the Center Party want, but it doesn't want the majority in this room to do. Of course, there is no guarantee of anything at all, but what is important to note is that manufacturers and retailers do not need to increase food additives, simply because the hygiene conditions in industry are such that they do not need it. And why should we be angry at consumers by increasing the amount of additives? That is why we believe that there are no problems in implementing these directives. If it turns out that there are problems, we will have to file a case for Stortinget on it, and do not pre-empt the complaints in such a way that you use the right of reservation in relation to something that may not be necessary at all. But if it turns out that there are problems, then we get to take it very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e836	During the hearing, Director Per Anders Stalheim of the Consumer Council said that the contentious points of the directives should not be introduced and that ‘labelling and information are necessary but not sufficient instruments’. There is always ‘a balance between what you need to know’ and what you expect is provided for in national legislation in terms of the security you expect by staying in a modern, developed country. Stalheim went on to say: ‘The risk posed by others is crucial both for confidence in the market and in the authorities, where we in Norway are in the lucky situation that consumers have confidence both in the market, in the products and in the authorities’. That trust in this country should not be diluted. A majority adopts the directives today. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs then follow the Consumer Council’s further recommendation to ‘work actively to improve the regulatory environment through impact at both European and global level’, i.e. in EU and WTO bodies? The establishment of new legislation and the European Food Authority in the EU, as well as the requirements for the re-evaluation of nitrate/nitrite provisions by the EU Scientific Committee, should be a good basis for making an impact. So the question is: will the Minister for Foreign Affairs help Norway to take on such a driving role?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e850	It is very easy to answer because Norway has raised this question about cyclamate. As a result, the Scientific Committee has set the limit values differently, and this means that the Christian People's Party is now saying that it is acceptable to accept that directive. We will also intervene in favour of Denmark when the case of the other additives is brought before the European Court of Justice. So we will work for the strictest possible rules, and of course for rules that are closest to those that we ourselves now have. We've done that, and we're going to keep doing that. And we have the same attitude as Denmark here. However, when the practice in Norway will not be very different from the one we now have, we see no reason to use the right of reservation – and that is what the debate is really about now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e859	The Minister of Foreign Affairs referred to the fact that the Government of Bondevik did not exercise the right of reservation in any of the EEA cases — and that is correct. But the Foreign Minister also quoted former Foreign Minister Vollebæk, who explained to the Bondevik Government's position on the right of reservation. And that's where I gave my approval. It's going to be a high threshold. It shall not be used in such a way that a person is slowly undermining this important agreement, but it shall be possible to use it when vital Norwegian interests are at stake. That's what Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk said. I challenged Minister of Foreign Affairs Jagland on the question of whether he did not assume that the health damage and the health risks associated with two of the three directives represented so vital Norwegian interests that this time the reservation right should be used. He replied that it was not an alternative he would consider. When the Bondevik government did not avail itself of the right to reserve, it was because Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbräten was in a dialogue with the EU on schemes that could put in place a satisfactory system without the right to reserve. I note that those negotiations did not take place. I am sure that the current Minister of Health has done what he could to get such arrangements. But it would be equally wrong for me to predict what the Government of Bondevik would have done in that case, as it is for Minister of Foreign Affairs Igland to refer to the fact that the Government of Bondevik did not benefit from this. One can see that the Bondevik Government has had a much more nuanced attitude to the right of reservation than the current Minister for Foreign Affairs has indicated. Also in the bodies of Storting, the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, the then Minister of Health and Foreign Affairs made it clear that they were so serious about the impact these directives had on Norwegian health. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: is there at all any relevant directives on the EU agenda, against which it may be appropriate for the Norwegian Government to propose reservation rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e868	I feel that the representative Steensnæs is now rewriting Vollebæk's statement when he refers to Vollebæk saying that the reservation right should only be used when vital Norwegian interests are at stake. Yeah, he actually said something more than that, he just said in case of need. And if representatives of the former Bondevik government now define this as implying vetoing directives that in practice have no meaning in Norway, then I wonder if it is consistent with what Vollebæk actually meant. Then I wonder at all what he meant by what he said here in Stortinget. Because if you now believe that vital Norwegian interests are at stake by implementing these directives, which do not get any special practice in Norway, then I have to go as far as to say that as Minister of Foreign Affairs I cannot stand for it abroad. I think that will not be heard in other countries, at least not in the EU, to which we have to have a relationship because of the EEA Agreement. Then it was said that the previous government worked with Norwegian special rules. Yes, but you could have driven it forward while you were in government. It should have been done, but this was delayed so much that it actually became a problem with the European Union, and that we therefore had little time on the matter. You could have driven this matter forward, and in your reign you could have vetoed this which you think you should now do, but which you failed to do right then. It is not now that the matter should be dealt with – it should have been dealt with a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e877	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e880	This matter naturally affects both the EEA Agreement as such and our sovereign main market, the EU. What we are talking about today is the most important trade agreement Norway has concluded with other countries, which overshadows everything else of trade agreements we have. We are talking about the most important market for the Norwegian export industry, and we are talking about the best paying market. It is an agreement that has given us enormous opportunities for development over ten years, and that has given Norwegian business and Norway as a nation a stability that we would otherwise not benefit from. It's an agreement that gives us rights, but which, of course, also, as all agreements, involves obligations for the nation. The commitments we are making mean that we are going to join a uniform code of trade, which will, of course, affect the whole EEA area. This is an important agreement that the intermediate batches obviously want to test out today. We all know what a veto, which the intermediate parties aim to propose today, could mean. Annex 2 to the EEA Agreement on the food component clearly states what is the automatic nature of a veto, if adopted. This means that the agreement can be terminated in this area by the EU, with the consequences it can have for the Norwegian export industry. One thing is that in this case it will affect the Norwegian export industry, but obviously it does not have a significant impact on the intermediate parties and the SV that at the same time Iceland and Liechtenstein are dragging me into this situation, bringing Norway and these countries on an uncertain voyage. The fact is that these directives should have been incorporated several years ago. However, I record that a relationship is being violated; it is not believed that this will mean anything significant for the EU, and it is said that this is an agreement that has minimal significance for the EU. Thus, it is categorically established that testing the right of reservation will not pose any particular problem. And it's great to record that SV will almost see it as useful to have this right of reservation tested. There is a special point of view, which employees in Norwegian jobs in competitive export industries should be aware of. I am quite sure that the previous government, the government of Bondevik, understood quite clearly what kind of refusal was given to the application that came back on 19 November last year. I am quite sure that the previous government also registered, Commissioner Patton's statement of 19 September 1999, saying that now the EU's patience is running out, is about to end. And when we know that the inclusion of this directive, after the information we have been provided, will have no effect on public health in Norway, no effect on Norwegian food products in the future, what should be the purpose of testing this so-called right of reservation? I do not know whether the representative of Steensnæs Hus may have passed by when he refers to Gro Harlem Brundtland and the EU ten years back in time, that it was another EU we were dealing with. There's a lot of water in the sea in ten years, and I'm pretty sure Steensnæs has brought it. However, I believe that today's journey is being carried out with the certainty that the directives will be adopted and that they will be incorporated by the Norwegian side. In these issues, I think it is important to be clear that there are also very strong forces within the EU that believe that the EEA Agreement is too good, that it should not be such that EFTA countries should only benefit from their EEA relationship. That is why I am very surprised when I record that these parties want to give a handshake to EU countries, which certainly also sees the conditions and conditions under which Norway has to be tested.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e895	So the directives we are dealing with now set a maximum limit for certain additives – we have probably got that with us now. So these limits are set a little higher than the limits we practice in our country, partly because we don't need higher limits, partly because Norwegian consumers don't want higher limits. That is why these directives are not particularly interesting to us, we really don't want them. On the other hand, these directives impose nothing on us, except that we may not use more than the maximum limit in terms of nitrite, nitrate, cyclamate and a number of these azo dyes. However, there is no requirement to change current practices in Norway. So you get to keep going just like you do in Norway today. Now I will not underestimate the fact that by implementing these provisions in Norwegian law, the Norwegian authorities will not have the right to intervene in cases where producers in Norway choose to increase the quantity in relation to current production. But the situation is that the Norwegian food industry does not need to increase the quantity, and Norwegian consumers do not want it. The directives will therefore, in practice, result in few and probably not significant changes here in us. However, I believe that these directives update the issue of both clearer and – not least – more comprehensible labelling of foodstuffs. This will allow Norwegian consumers to choose more consciously. Imports of goods with higher limits than those produced in Norway cannot be opposed, so such goods could be found in the shops if the shops wanted to sell them. So we can't stop imports of these products. The only thing that can stop it is that consumers don't buy them. Then there is a question of whether we should not have reserved ourselves against these directives. That's the question itself. So there's no one in this room who's cheering over these directives and saying that now we finally got them. You think they're really unnecessary. But then the question is, are they of such a nature that we should reserve ourselves against them? There has been a general attitude in the government of Harlem Brundtland, the government of Jagland and the government of Bondevik that this right of reservation should only be used when absolutely necessary, or when forced to do so. We can make a legal assessment of the consequences of a reservation. And even though these assessments will crack a lot, which we see they do, we would get a picture of possible consequences. However, it is also necessary to carry out a purely organisational assessment of such a reservation as this is also a matter of concern to Iceland and Liechtenstein. The reactions from the EU on a reservation will also affect Liechtenstein and Iceland. In turn, they can make their reservations in the future in relation to conditions that will be very little desirable to us. So we have to have a conscious attitude about what we're going to throw at when we're going to start demanding reservations about these things. And this thing that the representative Steensnæs was looking for, if we couldn't soon get some case where we could try out the right to reserve, is not what you can do in relation to the most important agreement we actually have for the business in Norway. Not least, a political assessment must also be made, and that assessment is not made in the short term or in the long term by those who oppose the position in this case. It goes without saying that if you do not want the EEA Agreement, you do not have to make such an assessment. But we who believe that a well-functioning EEA agreement is crucial for our entire business life, we need to make such a long-term political assessment. The enlargement of the EU, the impact on other EEA countries and the further development of the agreement related to the needs and challenges we face in the future must be part of such assessments. I would say that without a well-established and well-functioning EEA agreement, Norway's opportunities to stay outside EU membership will be greatly reduced. Those who today accept this position should also take this into account in their assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e910	There is a broad consensus that we should have strict rules for and closely monitor the use of food additives. Consumers shall be able to rely on the health protection of the food they purchase. Norway and the EU countries have long followed the same principles for the authorisation of food additives. As regards the objectives and principles of regulation in this area, there is no difference between Norway and the EU. I also believe that, based on the experience of professional cooperation in this field, the positions are consistently the same. They are strongly influenced by the desire to prevent the population from being exposed to health risks through the consumption of nutrients containing additives. Although we have similar objectives, principles and attitudes to regulation in this way, it may well be that countries each end up with different conclusions as to which additives and what quantities they will allow. Where appropriate, agreed coordination mechanisms shall operate in this way as in other areas. In the EU, as is known through the treatment and implementation of the various directives, and through the EEA Agreement, we have chosen, in accordance with specific procedures, to apply these also in the EFTA countries. It's this process of today's magnification is part of. On the basis of isolated health policy considerations, the use of a large number of additives can often be argued against, almost most of them, whether nationally defined rules or the adaptation of international agreements. However, as long as you move within fully acceptable limits, it is rarely appropriate to take positions based on such isolated considerations. In general, it would be better to develop a holistic approach, including in the context of health policy. I would like to emphasise that the health risk associated with the use of additives in a total context is low. Healthily, the overall composition of the diet is the most significant. Among other things, it gives a clear look whether you eat enough fiber, fruit and vegetables and little saturated fat. I would also like to stress that these are other aspects of diet and lifestyle, for example. intake of fat, sugar and salt, not to mention the use of tobacco, which represents significantly greater health problems than the additives that are the subject of today. Norwegian professional authorities have assessed this in such a way that most of the provisions of the three EU food additives directives are unproblematic and have already been implemented mainly in Norwegian law. In some areas, this has even made our rules more stringent; for example, the maximum levels for preservatives were benzoates. significantly reduced. The approximation of the directives made during the last revision of the Norwegian legislation has increased the number of authorised substances from around 50 %. 300 to 340. Many of the new substances are only variants of substances already authorised in Norway. However, there are provisions for some substances that have not been implemented and for the preservatives nitrite and nitrate, the so-called azo dyes and the sweetener cyclamate. The three food additives Directives allow to increase the use of these substances in food, in relation to our current rules. The State Institute for Public Health has carried out a health professional assessment of the increased use of these substances. All food additives authorised for use in the food have been subject to a scientific health assessment. The studies include both laboratory analyses and experiments on animals. Based on these tests, a so-called acceptable daily intake, an ADI, which is the amount that a person can eat every day throughout his life without risk of health damage, is determined. In practice, few people have such eating habits, but there is a way to set a limit value. Exceedance of the ADI will not necessarily lead to any health damage, because the values incorporate a very high safety factor. It's actually quite demanding to get into such a level of risk. However, there is an international agreement that the ADI should not be exceeded either by the average consumer or by major consumers of food products containing a particular food additive. The State Institute for Public Health estimates that the health risk to the whole or part of the population may increase slightly if foods are added on the Norwegian market to nitrite/nitrate, azocolourants or cyclamate at the maximum levels of the Directives. On this basis, the food surveillance of the State has further explored the possible consequences, as reflected in the proposition. Of course, the Directives do not lay down any requirement for increased use. On the contrary, the EU also makes use of the principle that within the maximum limits laid down no more than is strictly necessary. Consequently, there is no obstacle to maintaining current practices in Norway. On this basis, Norwegian food producers and the food industry have also stated that they do not wish to change current practices even if the directives are implemented in Norwegian law. If we had been free, we would probably have kept today's Norwegian regulation of the additives that we are talking about. Both this and the previous governments have tried to make it through. We have not succeeded in this. However, the health risk is considered to be very low, although there would be some increase in the use of the additives in question. So the last one is not safe at all. Should implementation lead to the use of higher quantities of food additives in the Norwegian market than before, consumers may be given more help in choosing the products they want, by marking the products – as at present – and by introducing additional information measures. All in all, I therefore believe that it is entirely right for health policy to implement the decision recommended in the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e946	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e950	The Minister for Foreign Affairs has referred all health policy issues to the Minister for Health. The question will then be whether health policy has been crucial for the Minister of Health. When he says that we had been free, we had probably kept the Norwegian rules of the day, in my opinion, this indicates that the opposite is the case. In open consultation within the Committee, the Health Authority, with the agreement of the State Institute for Public Health, has clearly stated that accepting increased use of the additives in question is an unfortunate signal in relation to the use of cancer prevention, allergy and safe food and that ‘the Norwegian maximum levels should be maintained’. Why is the Minister of Health opposed to the clear technical advice of Norwegian expertise? Does he have any better professional environments than the Health Authority and the State Department of Public Health? Danish figures suggest that nitrosamines alone can lead to approx. One to two additional cancer deaths in Norway per year. years. It's true that it's percent small, but as he said, the patient, it's going to be 100 pst. for the person who dies. And this is completely unnecessary death! The extent of health risk, the number of suspected deaths per drug user. is the Minister for Health willing to accept because of the use of additives with very little or no benefit?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e961	Yes, it's true, as I said, that we were quite free, I think we would have kept the regulations we have established on a national basis in Norway. But I also said that I don't believe, even on health policy issues, that it's useful to take positions based on completely isolated considerations. I think it's also right here to see this in a holistic way, and then I really think that there are other issues related to our diet that are of far more importance, and that it's far more important to focus on in our health policy than the very questions that relate to the additives that we're talking about here today. Of course, I have based myself on the professional authorities available in the assessments made on these directives. And so there is no reason to claim that health risks are increasing beyond what is fully acceptable even if these directives are introduced. That's what I put on as professional advice and assessments in this context. So it's pointed out – and it's been quoted several times here today – that someone has said that it can have an unfortunate signal effect, that it would be an unfortunate signal if you accept this. I'd like to say that that's probably possible, and you can discuss that. But in a discussion about signal effects, we're in a different field, if you can call it that, than some of the professional bodies that have been in there to assess the health risks of this. And I want to say that also in terms of signal effects, you should see it in a holistic sense, and then there are many other signals that are more important than just this. We must not get into the situation that there is the color of the alcohol marketed in the country, which is the major problem in a diet and health context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e970	The Progress Party fully adheres to the assessments made by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. We have received written material on these, and they have been notified to the Committee at the open hearings. What made me take the floor, however, was some of the health ministers at the end of their speech, saying that the food industry and trade would stay within the current legislation. That's right, we got information about that in the open hearing as well. The Minister of Health said that there is a certain possibility that there may be an increase, but that consumers will then receive information through the information and labelling that will come, for here new ways of informing the people that are not in use today will gradually develop. Nevertheless, there is room for little doubt here, as the Minister of Health said, and it may well make sense in some way to follow developments in the future, so that you have a certain overview of this. I would then like to ask a question to the Council of State: will he propose to carry out some checks to find out whether the amount of additives will increase after the inclusion of the EU directives?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e981	The answer to these questions is yes. There is every reason to follow developments in the future both with regard to the use of additives in the Norwegian food industry and through imports, the developments in the various additives involved and monitoring, as far as possible, the exposure of the population to additives. There is also reason to carry out systematic research, among other things. with regard to the clarification of any relationship between the intake of these additives and the presence of the diseases or sensitivity reactions mentioned in these Directives. So I can confirm that there is a field that the health authorities will follow in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e988	The proposition was honest in relation to the fact that the introduction of the new maximum levels would increase the health risk. The question mark knows if they're going to be used, I think we can remove. The fact that the Minister of Health is now trying to minimize this, we're just going to take note. When the proposition came, we responded that the health records that were supposed to be the main thing were neither included nor quoted, but it was a summary. We later found out that there had not been a new consultation session with the health services, nor with those groups of the population that it would have been natural to hear. It took us two reminders to send the letters of hearing, which were two to three years old. But we finally got them, the day before the committee was going to give its opinion. Even in the open hearing, there was very little concrete evidence from the professional authorities, simply because the Council of State preferred to respond on behalf of the professional authorities. This was probably also the reason why the representative Hedstrom today confused the Council of State with the professional authorities. Fortunately, however, we were sent back to the Health Authority in writing. One question I would like to address is that of cyclamate, which can cause testicular damage and impaired sperm quality. In many, many products, we will get much more of this substance. In ice, the content may be increased from zero to 250 mg/kg. The SNT – Food Authority – shall verify that the content is below 250 mg, while the industry and the shops shall ensure that it is zero, as this whole assembly wants it to be in the future. In what way does the Council of State think that SNT can help people to know whether this product meets the old limit, or whether it is the new limit that applies? How can consumers be warned of the new health hazard that may then be present in the products and which the Storting does not want to be in them?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1001	Firstly, I must take a strong distance from trying to minimize the problems associated with the use of food additives, including those that have been discussed here today. There have been no such attempts at all, and I also believe that very thorough technical assessments of those questions have been carried out. What I have said, however, is that in this area, as in most others, I think it is important to see these things in a total context. It is rare to assess the use of additives in isolation from the purely health effects of the individual food additive. As I have said, it is easy to find good arguments against very many additives, very many of the additives that have been used in Norway and accepted by the Norwegian authorities for many, many years. It is necessary to see this in a total context, and therefore I think it is also right to warn against blowing one case out of proportion to the many other issues related to food in our daily diet. I would also like to say that it is completely unknown to me that there should have been some restrictions on the ability of the various professional authorities to answer and explain the questions raised during the hearing mentioned. With regard to the possibilities of informing consumers about the substances contained in the foodstuffs marketed and their consequences, I would just like to refer to the labelling provisions and the possibilities to extend them – if you like – and information about this, which is also present today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1010	The Minister of Foreign Affairs stated that if Norwegian producers still want to change their practices regarding the use of additives, the Government will come to Stortinget with a case about what we are going to do. That was interesting. The Minister of Health also replied confirmatoryly that he will monitor developments and check against which additives are now being used. I will then ask what will be the pain threshold for when the Government will assess measures if progress is now counter-intentionally going in a different direction from what the Government assumes. If, for example: will be the maximum use of azo dyes, and it will show that between 500 – 2000 people will have serious problems with hypersensitivity to this, will the Minister of Health do something? If we get increased use of nitrite/nitrate, we could get an increased problem situation about nitrosamines. In the case of nitrosamines, the EU's own scientific committee has said that this is so carcinogenic that it is impossible to establish a minimum level. Does the Minister of Health consider it problematic to leave economic operators to make assessments as to what limits we should have in this area? Or does he feel that it should be the responsibility of the Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1019	I do not think it is appropriate to specify a specific pain limit for assessing the possible development of the amount of additives. I would say that any developments in this respect will be subject to and should be assessed by the health authorities. Then, at any time, a decision must be made whether there is a development that is thought to be dangerous and on the basis of which countermeasures can be discussed. Of such measures, a part has already been mentioned. For my part, I would like to perhaps focus most on the opportunities we have through increased consumer information. But there are, of course, other ways to influence, both in the context of the international cooperation in which we participate and towards the market players. In this respect, I would also like to say that I do not believe that this is something that should be left to the actors. I don't mean we do it either. But there are questions about how we influence and regulate. That's what this is all about. We set maximum limits and adapt to them in the context of international cooperation. In addition, we have other instruments and means to influence the actors. They we'll continue to use, and I don't want to say that it's up to the market actors to decide what development should be like.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1024	The Norwegian food industry has good hygiene. The default is high. We are pleased for consumers and also for the clear competitive advantage of high hygiene standards. Incentives to continue positive developments in hygiene standards are important in various ways. Due to the high standard, the Norwegian food industry has not required large quantities of food additives. Do the Council of State agree that relaxation in the use of these substances can be negative and not stimulating in terms of maintaining a high level of hygiene? Does the Council of State see that these relaxations and modification of the maximum limits in the use of nitrite/nitrate and azo dyes as a sleeping cushion in the process of raising hygiene standards can continue in the future, leading to greater uncertainty for consumers and loss of competitive advantage?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1031	I have seen that this issue has been raised. I find it difficult to comment with some sloping safety about the impact it might have on hygiene, for example. has the possibility to use more of such additives. However, I believe that most manufacturers regard hygiene standards as a very important competitive advantage in themselves. And the standard developed over the years in the Norwegian food industry, which I think will continue to be developed in this area regardless of its regulation, which we also need to involve, I think will still be seen as a significant competitive advantage and a significant competitive factor, which we will continue to work to improve. I am very much in doubt whether you will in some way renovate on the hygiene requirements by referring to the fact that you can use additives, as we are talking about here. As I said, this is difficult to comment on with some sloping certainty. But at least I know from my own background in the food industry that it would be completely unthinkable if you started to say no, now we can use some additives on a larger scale than we have used before, so now we relax a little bit on the hygiene requirements. It is a problem I have never experienced in the industry myself, and I do not think there is any prominent issue in practice in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1038	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1042	The Christian People's Party, as it is known, argued that Norway should join the EEA Agreement – yes, we were the key party to the agreement to get the necessary majority here in Stortinget. We also believe that the agreement has mainly worked well and as intended, and believe that the agreement should continue to be the main basis for our relationship with the EU. We will therefore protect the EEA Agreement. In the agreement, EFTA countries were granted a right of reservation against the introduction of directives if important interests were attached, of course at the risk of countermeasures from the EU. Former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland put great emphasis on what we had achieved here. In spite of this, we will show restraint using the right of reservation, because of course the contract works most painlessly without it. The fact that we have shown such restraint is shown by the fact that Norway has not exercised the right of reservation after the agreement has now worked for almost ten years. The Christian People's Party has also not recommended the use of this right until now. When the time comes, it's because safe food is so important to all of us. We had the longest hope that we could avoid using the right of reservation in these cases to achieve the same goal. However, in spite of many efforts, for a long time and under various governments, we have not received satisfactory solutions in relation to the EU that provide us with sufficient security in terms of protection against the hazards of the additives in question, yes, we believe that the use of the right to reserve is proper. The Christian People's Party has taken a nuanced stand on the matter. We do not go against directives simply because they are called food make-up directives. This is also reflected in the fact that we want to apply the right of reservation to two of the three directives in question. So one can accept the third. This also shows that we do not want to use the reservation right unnecessarily. When we have a differentiated position, it is based on a concrete assessment of the individual directive, and in that way I will refer to the previous speaker from the Christian People's Party. Of course, we are pleased that Norwegian food producers will not increase the use of food additives and that important actors in the retail trade are alerting that they will not take in products with higher maximum levels. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party believes that it is a state responsibility that the legislation sets limit values in line with what we believe to be health-friendly, and that this responsibility cannot be left to others. It is also important that the consideration of allergy sufferers and other vulnerable groups is included in the evaluation in setting limit values, especially for substances that we can manage well in addition. In the debate, it has also been argued that Norway has to introduce the maximum EU level and rather work to change it in the long term. I believe Norway's credibility in international work on stricter limits, for example. in the World Trade Organisation, will be greater if we maintain today's high standards. We therefore oppose the inclusion of the so-called ‘various’ directive, which concerns nitrate and nitrite, and recommend that Norway await the conclusion in the case of Denmark that it has brought against the Commission. If necessary, we will have to make use of the right of reservation. We are in favour of using the right to reserve against the inclusion of colouring directives, and the reason for this is given earlier in the debate by our speakers. As far as the Sweeteners Directive is concerned, the EU itself is working to implement new limit values in line with the opinions of the Scientific Committee, and Norway has requested a transitional regime on this basis. That is why we believe that one can deal differently with this directive and accept it if we get such a transitional regime and legislation in the EU itself is improved. The debate has shown that no one in the UK really wants the new rules on additives, nor does the Government want them, but accepts them, for fear of countermeasures from the EU. However, in any case with undesirable effects, we should be reversing the fear of countermeasures, and the right of reservation would lose its value and eventually become meaningless. And I wonder if the majority in this room at all in some case will be willing to use the right of reservation. In the context of the fundamentally important and problematic patent directive, which we will be able to deal with later, we have understood that the willingness to use the right of reservation is also small, or absent.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1070	There is a broad political consensus in the United Kingdom about the EEA Agreement and its importance for Norway. The EEA Agreement gives us opportunities and rights, but it also includes obligations. An important obligation is to contribute to the creation of a uniform regulatory framework. Healthly speaking, the vast majority of the permitted substances in the three EU food additives directives are unproblematic in their implementation in Norwegian legislation, and a comprehensive adaptation to the content and provisions of the Directives was made by the Bondevik Government in 1999. However, it is known that there are certain concerns by implementing the rules of the Directives on the use of nitrite, nitrate, the so-called azo dyes and the sweetener cyclamate, inter alia. since the Directives provide for the increased use of these substances in foodstuffs. After the Stortinget was presented with St.prp. No 12, the proposition and the case have received extensive political treatment, and the various aspects have been thoroughly clarified by, among others, the public consultation carried out in December 2000. I think it is worth recalling that Norway has been denied its requirement to maintain national provisions on these substances — nitrite, nitrate, azo dyes and cyclamate. The rejection was based on the fact that Sweden and Denmark have received a rejection of similar requests. After that, Norway has also addressed the options for alternative solutions with the Commission. The answer has been that it is now expected that the Directives will be included in the EEA Agreement as soon as possible and that legislation will be implemented in the EFTA countries. In addition, I would like to remind you that the three Directives provide guidelines on maximum levels of use of additives and not minimum limits. Consequently, there is no requirement for increased use of the additives. Through opinions, Norwegian food producers and the food industry have said that they have a position not to change current practices regarding the use of these substances, even if EU legislation is incorporated into Norwegian legislation. Norwegians must continue to work to ensure that the EU amends its legislation. The need for a transitional regime in the case of cyclamate is promoted. Marking and user guidance shall be improved. There is a risk that a no to inclusion may have implications for the EU’s position on the EEA Agreement. On the basis of this, I strongly disagree with the misleading opinion of the Morten Lund of the Central Party to the Nations on 8 December last year that for us in the Labour Party, ‘fast EU adaptation and future Norwegian membership of the EU are more important than the health of people’ – as he has repeated here today – and that the case is of such a dimension that the right to veto must be applied.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1085	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1088	To a large extent, the debate on the inclusion of the three Directives – the various Directives, the Coloring Substances Directive and the Sapphire Directive – has affected health issues. The question is: what is the risk to the individual consumer of eating food with these additives, and what effect does it have on public health in total? First, it is worth stressing that such additives are already available in food traded in Norway. Several of the substances are used as preservatives and are therefore necessary and useful to us as consumers. Among other things, the addition of nitrite and nitrate shall prevent the lethal poisoning of bacterial toxins, so-called botulism. The problems with regard to current use are that the directives provide for an increase in the quantities of some of the additives. However, there is good reason to believe that current quantities and uses will continue to a large extent in Norway. Risk analyses have been tried to identify the possibility of adverse and undesirable effects of the possible increased use of certain additives. In the open consultation carried out in the Committee, the question was to what extent it could be expected to increase the adverse and undesirable effects of the inclusion of the Directives in the EEA Agreement. The information provided could in no case be appropriate for the purpose of scaring neither the members of the Committee nor the general public with regard to increased health risks. It was stated in the hearing that the Norwegian population would be apprehensive if the Directives were incorporated into the EEA Agreement and that a fear of food scandals in the wake of possible inclusion. Yeah, I guess. We can read almost daily in the newspapers about the Nordics who are increasingly travelling to southern European countries, not least the pressure is great now in the dark and cold season. I don't think it's ever happened that these travelers are primarily afraid of food additives. For Norway as a whole, it may be difficult to claim that there will be some particular increase in health problems when the Directives are incorporated into the EEA Agreement. However, for individuals intolerant to certain additives, there may be an increase in the level of distress, as is the case for a number of foodstuffs marketed in Norway today. It is therefore important to propose more and better labelling. If we are concerned about public health, it is important to bear in mind the views expressed in the open hearing of representatives of the Council of State on nutrition and physical activity. The high health benefits in Norway are not reflected in the rejection of the directives, but in the fact that each individual takes on his or her own responsibility for health. There are great positive effects for individuals and for public health in total with a somewhat healthier diet and some more exercise, and then we talk for example. on the reduction of cancer risk for thousands of people each year. This is where the big gains lie, not in this case we are now debating. Had the representatives engaged in the same intensity for healthier diet and more exercise, we would really have done something for public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1103	When the government of Jagland presented St.meld. No 40 for 1996-1997 on food quality and consumer safety, it considered that ‘in Norway, the use of additives where professional assessments are available’, indicating that consumption of such substances involves ‘health hazards for consumers in general or for specific consumer groups based on the Norwegian diet pattern’. So four years later, the Labour Party is prepared to break these assumptions. One ignores both the professional assessments and the consideration of the specific consumer groups. For what do the professional authorities say – in this case the State Health Authority? Indeed, as late as 11 December last year, the Health Inspectorate concluded that ‘increased use of the additives mentioned in St.prp is acceptable. No 12’ – i.e. the present proposition – ‘is an unfortunate signal in relation to the rate of cancer prevention, allergy and safe food in Norway’. In principle, therefore, the Health Authority considers that the Norwegian limit values should be maintained. Nevertheless, in today's debate the Minister of Foreign Affairs claims that the Workers' Party believes the same thing today as they thought when the food message was submitted. The fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party are on the ground for EU requirements is not surprising, but it is not surprising when the Government Party violates the principles and assumptions of the Workers' Party as late as 1997. But it may be a comfort to the Workers' Party that the party is not alone in ignoring the professional advice. The European Commission’s Scientific Committee on Food has come up with crass criticisms against, among other things. the use of nitrite and nitrate, and this Committee concludes that these substances must be considered as a serious health risk and that the use of these substances must be minimised. The government claims with a broad pen that it bases its environmental policy on the precautionary principle. However, in the opinion of the Centre Party, the plural setting is a clear violation of this principle. In the case of food make-up, the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right choose to turn the deaf ear to when the State Health Authority uses an increased risk of cancer and allergies as a justification for maintaining today's limit values.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1114	This debate has developed in such a way as to be able to wait in advance. The centre party has stood out as the strongest defender of public health – they clearly mean themselves – and said that we do not benefit from the precautionary principle. But what they're forgetting completely is that there's nothing to suggest that we're going to have any change in the use of additives in our country. In addition, the Committee has been concurred with saying that we should be given better labelling and that we should be given better information and control. So the result might be that we actually get less use of the product with such additives. But what got me to take the floor in the first place was the representative Bondevik. I have to say that I feel it – not to be too strong – strange when a representative who recently was Prime Minister and set up to lead a government for two and a half years may come to the conclusion that a right of reservation should now be put to the test – when they do not dare to do so themselves. Because it can't be this last year the Christian People's Party has come to realize that this matter is so important that we have to use the right of reservation. You must have seen that in the gentleman's name for a long time! Why, then, did the center government not take that initiative and get it settled? No, it was, of course, that the present Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk expressed that one should only use the right of reservation in extreme emergencies, which was why he was not used. And then it's easy to sit in opposition and let others take responsibility for the survival of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1124	This is, of course, an EU/EEA debate, a debate on health policy and a debate on nutrition policy. I think it is discouraging to hear that the arguments regarding the EU/EEA debate are so carefully put at the head and at the same time have distanced so far from the debate we had before it was about concluding an agreement. Then we had the right to reserve, and we were going to use it in important questions. And for me and the Central Party, these directives are important issues. When we point that out, it's made like we're out of the EEA. But then you can be just as rhetorical and simple and say that this seems like the government party is willing to swallow with the skin and hair of the EU. So there might be a case debate between those attitudes there. Health Minister Tønne said that if we had been free, we would probably have kept today's legislation. And that means that the government is assessing it so that we don't have the right to make reservations. At least it's not the will to use it there. And I think that's very regrettable. I think we should be able to use it in such an important matter. So I'm going to go over what has more to do with health and nutrition. Before the war-principle is to be practiced, and the Government stands upon it, it is claimed. The goods shall be marked. But the Minister of Health said that goods should – as they are today – be labelled. And I don't see the big difference in that. At least there is no significant increase in the precautionary principle through such practice. This with increased consumer information is also good and good, but how much impact does it have on diet practice and the avoidance of this becoming a health risk that in turn increases society's expenditure in terms of health policy and treatment? When the Minister of Health was asked about this with control of development, he said about the following – I am not sure if I refer entirely to word law – that we should monitor the exposure of the population and also assess the sensitivity reactions. That is what I think is bad for goods policy, because it is addressing the problems after we have had the effects of these additives that are very unfortunate for the health development in Norway. It's not leading were-positions. It is soon at best, and I think we should have opposed these directives on the basis of a health policy approach and on the basis of what we now know about the development of new diseases in our population, not least among children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1135	Norway has traditionally had very strict rules on imports of live animals and foodstuffs and on food additives. In addition, strict hygiene requirements have been imposed on the food industry and on restaurants and restaurants. This has been done to build a security around the food we eat. It has been a goal to ensure that consumers are safe on the food they eat. We've also reached that goal. Norway has been on the world top in relation to animal health and at the bottom in relation to dangerous foodborne diseases. Now we have several issues where the Government and their support parties in this Chamber, the Advance Party and the Right, set aside health reasoning in order to be able to adapt to the EU as much as possible. Yes, in this debate, even the representative Gabrielsen of the Right Party has agreed that there is no enthusiasm for the inclusion of the three directives in Norwegian legislation, due to the health risks. Nevertheless, both the Right and their Free Trade Allies, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party are in favour of allowing more carcinogens and allergenic food additives than we have today. This raises a number of new questions. If the right of veto cannot be used in this case, when can it be used? And how much of these additives does the Right Party, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party think you can allow to put in the food before it's dangerous enough to veto it? Is the veto right at all real, or is the so-called veto right only one element of the labour party government included in the EEA Agreement in order to make it so that there was no need for constitutional change in order to have the agreement adopted? This case has moved some border posts that I am afraid in the long term could have major consequences for the environment and public health. Today, a majority in the United Kingdom has decided that health is less important than adapting to the EU and having as much free trade as possible. From a consumer's point of view, the decision of the majority of population is a scandal, and unfortunately, this majority's boundless enthusiasm for the EU can lead to more cases like this in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1148	I took the floor to comment on Mr. Opseth's remarkable contribution, where he found it strange that I took the position I was taking. What's strange, if anything, is that the representative Opseth obviously didn't get the point in the Christian People's Party's position on this matter. The question is not, as he put it, that we now want to put the right of reservation to the test, but did not venture it into government. Where did he get the remarkable performance? On the contrary, we have said that there is no objective in itself to use the right of reservation or to put it to the test. On the contrary, it is desirable to avoid recourse to the right of reservation, and we have done so for almost ten years. Therefore, my government worked actively and for the longest time to find satisfactory solutions to these matters without applying the right of reservation. But what has happened in the last year – since Opseth was obviously very concerned about it and did not understand it – is that we all now have to see that it did not work, and that we either have to accept the directives or apply the right of reservation, except in the case of the Sweeteners Directive, where we can ask for a transitional regime and hope that in the meantime the European Union will improve its own rules. I had really believed that the rapporteur had better got the point in this case and the attitude to it. But now we have come to a point when we have to take our position, either use or not use the right to reserve. It is not a question of wishing to put the right of reservation to the test. What kind of a show is that? But when we think it's advisable to use it in at least two of these cases, it's because the question of safe food is important. I had also hoped that it was so important for the Workers' Party that they had been willing to use the right of reservation, a right of reservation that the then Prime Minister Harlem Brundtland, the representative of Opseth's party, praised in the clouds that we had been given, but that the Workers' Party does not seem to be willing to use at all, nor in a question that goes on safe food. Since the representative Opseth has already asked for the floor, I would like to ask him: does he and the Labour Party consider any matter so important in relation to possible EU directives that they can imagine using the right of reservation that Prime Minister Harlem Brundtland thought was a very important outcome of the negotiations? The way the Workers' Party acts now, it is in the process of completely undermining this right of reservation, and in case it should never be used, it will be pointless.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1159	The representative of Kjell Opseth said that there is nothing to suggest that the approval of the three food make-up directives will lead to increased consumption of such products and thus increased health risks. It may not surprise so many, but I will nevertheless insist that it really means that Kjell Opseth puts his assessment of this issue before the State Health Authority. The State Health Authority’s opinion was available on 11 December, and the State Health Authority was well aware of the views expressed at that time in the food industry and the food trade. So you cannot hide behind the fact that the Health Authority has not included this in their assessment. Then we can once again state that when the Workers' Party receives advice from professional authorities who do not like the party or who do not fit into the party's frame, a position you have previously had changes, as one does in this case. I also remember from another matter just under a year ago, that the Workers' Party, because one did not like the recommendations made by the professional authorities, was actually willing to instruct the professional authorities to re-examine their position and position. This is a blatant breach of the leading commodity attitude that should be guiding, not least in environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1166	It did not come as a big surprise that the representative Bondevik needed to take the word after my last post, because it is such that Bondevik thinks there is someone more difficult to understand than others. I have actually understood the representative Bondevik quite clearly and clearly. There was no alarm in what I said. The Bondevik government is working on these questions for two and a half years. They would have had the full opportunity, if it were as simple as the representative Bondevik and the others from the central government now make it like, to come to the conclusion that they would use the right of reservation at that time as well. No new arguments have been received in due course since Bondevik's government left the government offices. It is not that the Labour Party, and to the extent that the Right and Advance Party, do not take the precautionary principle seriously. Sure we do. It is not such that the State Health Authority can claim that by implementing these Directives, there is a greater risk to health. Then there must be a clear premise that there will be an increase in the use of the additive. As long as it doesn't, there can't be an increased health risk either. I actually thought that the representative Jakobsen had also brought with him. With the measures we need for labelling, information and control, we can come into the situation, as I have said several times now, that we actually get a better health situation, despite the fact that we are implementing these directives. But I would like to see it possible to keep the rules of the day. There is no problem joining. But in the choice between jeopardising the EEA Agreement and implementing these directives with the rest of them, I think we should choose to keep the EEA Agreement. So the question is whether the Workers' Party might be willing to use the right of reservation. Yes, if there's one thing that we think is so serious for the country's interests that we have to do it, we do. But no one is standing here and telling me what a matter it is today, at least I am not.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1176	Kjell Magne Bondevik has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1179	The last article was so interesting that it requires a comment. First, the representative, Opseth, said that the centre parties also had the full opportunity to conclude that they would use the right of reservation while they were in government. Of course, we had every opportunity to do that. But we didn't want to use the right of reservation if it was possible to achieve the same thing the other way. That is why, of course, we worked for it as long as it was possible. I think the current government did, too. But then one comes to a point where one has to find that it does not lead to, and then one has at last only the choice either to use the right of reservation or to accept the directives. But once again, Opseth seems to be living in the mind that we should have a wish to use the right to reserve, and so we could have concluded a lot earlier. We have no desire to use the right of reservation. But when there's the only way to avoid unsafe food, we find it important enough to use it. That's where the difference lies between the center and SV on one side and the other sides on the other side. So the representative says we're jeopardizing the EEA Agreement. I do not believe any responsible foreign policy-makers would say that due to a reservation in these cases, which is not so important for the EU, we are endangering the EEA Agreement. It's completely out of dimension in relation to the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1190	I have listened with interest to today's debate and have recorded in relation to previous EU and EEA-related debates in Stortinget that there has been an interesting change in terminology. What used to be in Norwegian rhetoric is called veto right, it's now called reservation right. There is a significant step towards political euphoria, and euphoria is an important part of public health. Otherwise, I have to say that a little bit of the violent rhetoric from parts of the center parts reminds me a little bit of a body exercise called dry swimming. It looks almost like an exercise for confusion of general swimming, but there are two significant differences. One is that it's completely harmless, and the other is that it's guaranteed not to go anywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1202	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1210	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1226	Here the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left have announced that they want to vote against. The voting boards showed that there were 69 votes in favour and 33 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 14.08.23]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1235	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1242	And that was voted for? Yes, it is so serious that this must be changed! [[Laughter]] Then the votes will be 68 votes in favour and 34 votes against, after this confession.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1254	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have, as far as the President is concerned, announced that they wish to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-19.ana.ud552e1285	There is no record.
