ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e44	The President of the Grand Duchy, Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, and the representative, Bjørn Hernæs, who has been licensed, have once again taken up their seats. The representative Steinar Bastesen has applied for leave on 7 and 8 February to participate as a member of the Norwegian delegation to the International Meeting of the International Whaling Commission in Monaco. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Arvid Falch, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e72	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e77	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e82	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and the Kjell Engebretsen shall be deemed unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative of Øystein Djupedal will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e87	I would like to propose amendments to the Financial Contracts Act on the introduction of information obligations for banks on expected annual fee costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e92	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 3 will be treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e124	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 40 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes each and the Left and the Representative Bastisen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e135	The donation is currently dealing with the elderly care plan after 2 years. For the treatment of St.meld. No 50 in 1997 on care for the elderly asked the Stortinget to review the needs of care for the elderly after two years, including: in the light of the local authorities’ own development plans. This review is now available, and the Committee considers that the present big message provides a good analysis and description of the implementation of the action plan so far. When the government of Jagland and then Social Minister Hill-Marta Solberg presented the action plan for the elderly in 1997, it was because the situation for the elderly in very many municipalities was too poor and the municipalities were unable to develop new services as the number of older people increased. The offer of exclusive space was thus only part of this plan, but very important to those who wanted it. This message was received as a known support from a total mass and was later referred to as the ‘parent agreement’. I would like to point out that some municipalities had made large increases in their offers to the elderly before this reform came, and then at the expense of other important investments in the municipality. I understand that these municipalities have felt somewhat unfair about the action plan. On the part of Stortingen there have been some attempts to correct the situation of these municipalities, but it can certainly be claimed that this is not sufficient. However, let me point out that what has been most important about this elderly effort has been to give a good offer to the elderly, regardless of where they live, and what income and social status they have. The aim has been to enable municipalities to design and develop a service offer tailored to local circumstances and needs. I believe that this goal is well under way. An overall committee is pleased that the results achieved half-way during the planning period are well in line with the targets of the Action Plan for new buildings and improvements. The municipalities have taken this very seriously and have made a great effort to achieve the objectives of the action plan. An overall committee also welcomes the achievement of the targets for the number of new annual works during the planning period. There is reason to be satisfied that 6,000 new annual works have been put in place two years after the action plan was launched. However, there is reason to recall that access to personnel is different from local government. Some municipalities have great difficulties in getting professionals, which creates both problems and extra costs for these municipalities. The Committee takes a serious view of this situation and has outlined some examples of measures that could address this issue. Among other things, there is a greater focus on decentralised education, the provision of childcare facilities to all those who wish to do so, good school-time arrangements and easier access to work permits for immigrants. The Committee welcomes the work done in municipalities to qualify unskilled and post-secondary workers. The 1997 Single Decision on the Action Plan for the Elderly provided an investment framework for 24 400 nursing homes and nursing homes. This has always been the case, and no proposal has been made at any time for cuts in the agreed framework of the action plan, as it was made last spring and summer in the media. What is clear, however, is that these funds do not meet the needs notified by the municipalities. Local government plans for the construction of nursing homes and nursing homes comprise a total of 38 500 units, including 3 500 units promised before the action plan period, and 3 400 units linked to the mental health escalation plan. The Committee welcomes the fact that, in the context of the last draft budget, the Government proposed a continuation of the action plan’s grant scheme for the construction of nursing homes and nursing homes with an extended commitment framework of 5 000 units. This involves approx. NOK 3.9 billion in start-up grants and compensation grants at current rates. The Committee agrees with the Government that this continuation is necessary in order to ensure equal treatment between municipalities. The Committee considers it important that the deadline for applying for investment grants under the action plan be as set out on 30 June 2001. On the part of the Committee, it has also been pointed out that the area which is operationally organised for the provision of services by the lucky day must be given priority over residential care without such organisation. So the municipalities now have approx. five months to promote applications for elderly bets. An overall committee will await this deadline before final decision is taken on the number of nursing homes and nursing homes with good luck care and care to be built within the action plan. The government is therefore asked to come back with an assessment of the investment and operational needs of the elderly in the context of the 2002 government budget. Some municipalities have made enquiries which may indicate that the standard requirements of the House Bank for the restoration of the older building stock are unnecessary and therefore incur unnecessary costs for the municipalities. The government is therefore asked to review these requirements so that the requirements for conversion can be slightly differentiated from those for new buildings. I would like to make it clear that, at the same time, it is important that the requirements for a good standard and appropriate design of housing facilities are respected. I find reason to commend the various government councils in alternate governments, the people of the departments and the municipalities for the efforts that have led to the very good track record of the action plan for the care of the elderly. I would also like to pay tribute to the elderly councils in the municipalities and to the pensioners' organisations for the constructive contribution they have made in this regard. The size has also been submitted Document No. 8:74 for 1999-2000, which is a proposal by Carl I. Hagen to set up the Norwegian State Care Agency A/S. This proposal is also under consideration today. The proposal envisages the creation of a 500-million care company. kr in share capital to build and operate health care institutions in southern countries. In this respect, let me say that the House Bank can already participate in the financing of housing and care units abroad, but this must then be included as part of the overall plans of the individual municipality for the care of the elderly. An overall elderly care needs to be managed according to local circumstances and needs in each municipality. If parts of this whole are removed and left to e.g. a public limited liability company, this would be unfortunate. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, considers that a proposed state limited liability company will only lead to more bureaucracy and not provide better care for those who need it. It must be appropriate to use financial resources directly on care services instead of managing several public limited liability companies. I also thought that the Progress Party had as its overall objective. Housing and care services in other countries may be good for some for shorter or longer periods, but there is reason to warn against such a large investment in foreign services that local services to the elderly and others in need of help are weakened. I commend the Committee's proposal for a decision in Innst. S. No 91 and Inner. S. No Ninety-two.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e184	On submission of St.meld. No 28 for 1999-2000, the central government wanted a wide-ranging debate on the value base and content of care services and, through this debate, focus on the content and quality of services. Care and care services may seem to be easier to deal with through physical and material values and measurement. A discussion of ethics and attitudes may well have the effect of being word-rich and dizzy, but this is not least why it is very important in order to set objectives and quality requirements that can be followed in practical work and provision of services. Studies and research into care services have been carried out in a number of contexts without the achievement of a common definition of quality or common quality objectives by researchers. Many meet the debate on quality and ethics in the care sector that the economy is particularly too poor and resources are generally too small, so that there is no basis for a broad discussion of the content and quality of care services. In my opinion, such an approach is completely wrong. We can agree that resources are too few and the economy is too small, but this needs to be made visible through just a review and discussion of the content and qualities of care on an ethical basis. It is important to stress that a general and overall objective of care services is that all should have a satisfactory and as equivalent service provision as possible regardless of where each individual lives and regardless of his or her economic and social status. It must also be an important premise that all those who become physically or mentally ill or otherwise become dependent on help or care receive good and qualified assistance in time. This is also underlined by a majority in the caste, which further states that this can only be done by using more resources to build a common public health and care service that places the patient’s needs at the centre of the caste and not to discriminate against people. If users and their needs and needs are to be put more at the centre, it is important that the quality and content of care services are more clearly determined by the individual user. This must apply both in the institutions and in the home services. The majority of the Committee stresses that greater emphasis needs to be placed on the content and quality of public care services and that interactions with family, community and voluntary care providers are important for a comprehensive and good care service. Within the public system, it is important that the services are coordinated and coordinated in such a way as to provide an overall and orderly offer for the individual, where its contribution to the organisation of its own needs is the primary one. If such coordination is to succeed, public sector work must take place through cross-sectoral and cross-cutting cooperation and must also be binding and close between levels of government where necessary and required. Many recipients experience and express low self-esteem, apathy, powerlessness and lack of participation in society. It is important and must be emphasised with a broad pen that respect for the values and habits of the recipient is to be shown, that the recipient is entitled to and needs a private life, and that the individual must have optimal day-to-day management. The concept of ‘quality’ is relatively both historical and cultural, and depends, inter alia, on: experience, habits and lifestyles of individuals will require different standards and experiences of quality. Nevertheless, a broad majority of the Committee believes that it is important both for the public authority, the individual recipient, the individual place of employment and the individual provider of services to define quality and good care. The majority of the Committee refers to the work carried out by the Southern Trøndelag College, their intention to put ‘human beings in the centre’, and that through this work they have focused on the valuation of the social role of each person. With the support of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, this college, in cooperation with the municipality of Kristiansand, has implemented a broad commitment to building competences in care services related to normalisation and social inclusion. The aim has been to create a common understanding of the theory, problems and processes of social integration, disintegration and the valuation of social roles. One has, among other things: sought to break down barriers to cooperation in the multidisciplinary and transnational recruitment of staff with different educational backgrounds. The majority of the Committee considers this to be a very interesting measure to improve the quality and awareness of care services and asks the Government to consider how such projects can be further developed so that more people can benefit from similar development programmes. What concrete aspects and requirements have then been identified through the treatment of this bigotry communication? The Committee has pointed to many factors that need to be improved and which need to be further worked on as quickly as possible. The communication includes, inter alia, the following: terrifying numbers and conditions of breaches of the quality regulations of the care services. When neither the system requirements of the quality regulations for the service itself nor the administrative law are complied with in proceedings, it is very, very serious. The majority therefore ask the Government to follow this closely and submit a new report to the Storting, which also proposes amendments, where appropriate penalties, to improve the situation. Among other things, the majority believe that the supervisory tasks of county doctors need to be strengthened and developed. The internal audit/quality assurance system must be supervised by the county doctors, which must be carried out by all activities in the care sector under the Local Health Act. The supervisory tasks of the county councils and county councils should also be better coordinated and intensified. Rounded on quality in the care sector, which contains the requirements laid down in the Local Health Services Act and guidelines under the Social Services Act, must be revised to clearly include all beneficiaries of care services. The majority also believe that changes in the social services law need to be considered, including: may be authorised to supervise home services. Furthermore, the majority of the members of the Board of Directors request that the Government submit a proposal to entrust the local authorities with the obligation of internal control under the Local Health Services Act. It is important that errors and accidents that occur are treated in such a way that such experience can lead to better prevention and greater safety. The majority emphasise that the research carried out should be properly combined and systematised so as to provide a broad and coherent basis for improvements and quality development in the care area. The importance of increased research and thus better and wider basis for care services and their ethics is underlined in the suspension. Research in this area will also increase the status of the subject area, and it will make work more interesting for the working groups, which is of great importance for the recruitment and further development of all the professional groups associated with the care and care activities. The majority also emphasise the importance of improved training and skills enhancement in this area, not least in terms of management. In this context, it is important to bear in mind the Committee's setting up and proposals in the context of the 2001 government budget. The majority will also stress the need for increased status and self-confidence in the context of training and skills enhancement, which will result in a greater interest in recruitment and professional development. This setting also underlines the need for continuity among workers as an important contribution to quality assurance of care services. It is very important for the relationship between the recipient and the service provider that closeness and confidentiality can be achieved through continuity and knowledge of the performers. The majority have noted that the obligation of professional secrecy may be an obstacle to obtaining the benefit and necessary care measures, particularly in the area of drug treatment. In general, however, there may be problems in getting relationships that need to be corrected and improved. The government is therefore asked to consider possible measures and changes so that quality assurance is not hindered by such circumstances and, where appropriate, to return with relevant legislative and regulatory changes. The Communication addresses responsibilities in the care and care sectors and discusses them in relation to, inter alia: cooperation with non-governmental organisations, competitive outsourcing and privatisation. The majority of the Committee emphasises the importance of public involvement in core tasks, for example: health and care services. Public governance must be responsible for its entirety, quality and priority, and be responsible for it through the system established for the influence and choice of individuals vis-à-vis the public. It is also very important, as a matter of urgency, for the public to have an intact service in the event of crises and disasters. In particular in municipalities, it is important to have responsible and employer relations with professionals in the care and care sector that can be rapidly mobilised in exceptional cases. It is pointed out in the setting that public authorities must continue to work towards improvement in order to improve and ensure quality in the care area. The guidance service from the state and county levels is important here to assist in planning and organisation, but also in the exercise of pure service, these levels of administration must provide professional assistance and guidance. The notification also addresses legal certainty for people with dementia. The majority believe that it is important to enhance the understanding and competence of all stages of ageing and dementia, and that education and research are then organised and prioritised. The majority believe that the quality and quantity of services and care for people with dementia, both in the form of staff, competence and organisation, must be such that the environment and well-being have the lowest potential for conflict and forced situations. However, several legal and regulatory provisions provide an unjustified basis for the legal security of the recipient and may also create difficulties for the service provider. In the view of the majority, there may therefore be grounds for a review of legal certainty and rights rules for, for example: people with dementia. The same majority believe that the most ideal will be on today's rules that can be clarified and coordinated without major changes and that knowledge and guidance will be improved. In this case, the ethical duty of care must be adapted to this legislation. – There are some more moments that I want to withdraw, but my time does not allow me to continue now, so I will come back to it in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e243	That's right, speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e246	First, I would like to comment on St.meld. No 28 on the content and quality of care services. I must admit, at the outset, that for me and the Progress Party, it has been difficult to find some political essence in the 78-page big message, which was presented by the previous government. As I see it, most of the message is a repetition of of of course. Reconciliation, not least with regard to user choice and decisive participation, is almost absent from the notification. The care message is little concrete and hardly any suitable tool for improving our care services. Most of the information given in the communication has received the full agreement of the Committee, without any specific progress being made in the broadest sense. When the communication in the present position has largely received the agreement of the Committee, I believe this underlines that all political parties in Norway are based on a human view of human dignity, regardless of physical or mental equipment, age, income and social status. Thus, there is no single party or government constellation in this country that can rely on better and more accurate values and human vision than others. It's also very difficult to measure values. A goal might be to record the existence of differences in batches in opening the State Wallet for the transfer of resources to all categories of care and assistance. It is the real-world decisions that the care and relief measures actually depend on, not on party-political verbal value declarations or allegations of so-called fair distribution. Unfortunately, it is a fact that a substantial part of state welfare transfers goes to health and work. In the present setting to St.meld. No 28 for 1999-2000, the Progress Party has noticed some things I want to comment briefly on here. Overall, in the case of care for the elderly, both institutional care and home care, the quality of care should be more determined by users themselves. In the case of care services in municipalities, users must have far more direct participation rights in determining the need for assistance, being in open care or in institutional care. The caregivers must be given choices. Unfortunately, there are too many examples of very old and helpless people being fed away with a few hours of home help or home care during the week, patients who should have obviously been in institutional care. In the case of home services, the administration of the assistance should be left to the users themselves, paid by the public at a agreed price. This is practised in our neighbouring countries with good results. I also refer in this context to the recently submitted Document No of the Progress Party. 8-proposals, which we propose to legislate on visiting home care, to provide an overview of the help needs of different kinds that older people over the age of 75 may need, to avoid harm and accidents, and to enable older people to live longer in their own homes. In fact, I expect this proposal to be accepted by the Committee when it comes to dealing with the matter there with the first. We also need, in the opinion of the Progress Party, independent supervision of the care of the elderly. In this respect, I would like to point out that the Progress Party has once again promoted a Document No. Eight proposals on the establishment of senior officials, which are also under consideration in the Committee. The supervision of county doctors, covering only the care of institutions, is too narrow and inadequate. The party otherwise disagrees with the fact that the county was entrusted with the responsibility for the care homes. Most of these will be occupied by caregivers, and the responsibility for supervision should therefore be given to county doctors. The Progress Party believes that the frequency of inspections in our hospital is too low on the part of county doctors, and we also believe that such inspections should mostly be unannounced visits, so that deficiencies can be identified there and there. The Patient Rights Act provides for free hospital choice from the current year. Nearly equal freedom should also be granted to older people who are ill and caring, both in domestic and foreign care. If this option is to be made possible, private service providers must be opened up both domestically and abroad. This should not be a matter of concern in any way, since the public is responsible for quality and control of the execution of services. The outsourcing of care is gradually coming in more and more Norwegian municipalities. This also provides flexibility and options for users. To this extent, private services with official controls seem to have given better quality and, in many cases, more reasonable operation. In this setting, as in many other settings in recent years, the Progress Party has also pointed out that very many municipalities have an unacceptablely low staffing in their care institutions. This results in less care, more stress and poor recruitment of health professionals. The current big-time message and setting seem to be less concerned with care than the Progress Party might have wanted. Our drug addicts are a group of between 10,000 and 20,000 people, a group that has been shamefully neglected for very many years. If we are to be able to lift this group, the treatment and rehabilitation of those drug addicts must be given greater professional prestige. The client stamp must be removed. Drug abusers are sick people, and health services should be responsible. The quality of drug-free treatment services needs to be improved. Drug treatment must be made available without excessive red tape. This seems to be the reality of the Social Minister following the recent decision of the Stortinget, which allows general medicine specialists to prescribe drugs for the rehabilitation and treatment of heroin users. So some comments to St.meld. No 34 for 1999-2000, evaluation of the elderly plan after two years. The notification shows that the plan is on track for the completion of both nursing homes and nursing homes, and that approximately. half of the years of nursing are already in place in care. This is well and good, but I would like to remind you of a significant point that had been taken into the innermost. S. No 294 for 1996-97: ‘– Ensure the necessary care services to suit the needs of the individual’. As far as I have been able to register, even on the basis of the current evaluation report, there is so far no power to comply with the Storting's clear requirement that the care services should be adapted to the individual user at all times. I believe that at least in the first two years of the old age plan, there are relatively more nursing homes than nursing homes, and that highly nursing people are located in these nursing homes and do not have sufficient supervision and care, as the individual needs. More than 2000 have also been registered on the waiting list for hospital accommodation. In addition, the problem is that our public health homes on average have too low a crew compared to the care weight of the current patients. The age section of our public hospitals is now 85 years old and more, and very many of the patients have a daily need not only for care and care, but also for intensive treatment for multiple disorders. This does not only require a sufficient number of staff, but it requires more trained professionals to provide this treatment. The medical staff in our public health home is very low, only one year’s work per year. 150 patients. At my discretion, the medical staff in a public hospital should be on one doctor per day. 50 patients. As far as I can understand, we have today, after the retirement plan has been on the rails for two years, actually fewer sick homes than we had when the plan was launched in 1998. The notification shows that municipalities have notified the need for much more housing units than the Stortinget provided for, and the Ministry recommends in the notification that housing units increase by 5000 places. I'm glad of this. However, for its part, the Progress Party finds that there will not be 5000 new places either to meet the wave of the elderly and the sick that we get over a decade in the future. In concrete terms, we propose a further 5,000 places in the position, and there should be sick homes. We believe that we need to meet a need of 25 sick places per person. 100 residents over 80 years of age. We find that there is a reasonable coverage in the future. Today, the average is located in a place between 17 and 20 beds per person. 100 people over 80 years of age. I am addressing the proposals from the Progress Party that are in the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e291	John Alvheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e294	Storing message No. 28 for 1999–2000 focusses on the content and quality of care services. A good care service is not just about the number of dwellings or the financial environment. It is about how values, attitudes and cultures in the care sector affect the quality of the work being done. The Bondevik Government wanted with this message to have a debate on the value base of this service. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to give room for continuous guidance and that they are given the opportunity to talk and reflect in their daily work. It is important that ethical issues are central to the training of care professionals. Substantial differences in the quality of care services have been demonstrated today. We still need to have user surveys to find out what quality is so that we can put in place effective measures. It is positive that one hand out a care price, and of course I am glad that the municipality of Tvedestrand was the first to receive it. One price stimulates the recipients, and they become a good model for others. Although recent research shows that the health of the elderly is improving, it is still clear that we are facing a growing group of people who will depend on our care services. Not least, we're going to get an increasing number of older people. At the same time, we get new groups of users such as mental retardants, people with mental disorders and drug users. To meet the many challenges, the Christian People's Party believes that it is necessary to stimulate voluntary efforts. Institutions operated by non-governmental organisations should still play an important role in the provision of services. Care is also provided in private, such as by family, friends, community and volunteers. It is important that the recipients of the services themselves contribute to the provision of services. It is also important to support the diverse voluntary work that has emerged from the volunteer centres and the elderly centres. I would like to point out an example: Termik in the Wefsn municipality. The foundation offers help to serious, long-term sick people who want to be at home, and their relatives. The assistance provided is a supplement to home care and home care and shall be a relief for the dependants. Volunteers are people with different backgrounds of experience who are trained to care for sick and relatives. Another example of voluntary work is the project at five of Oslo’s hospitals, where volunteers and organisations, in cooperation with employees, residents and relatives, contribute to increased well-being and activity. Employees have limited time to start social activities for and with the elderly. We know that social contact keeps us healthy longer. A major challenge for care services in the coming years will be the development of a good service for people with dementia. The Christian People's Party believes there is a need for research and development in this area. It is important that people are provided with knowledge of treatment and assistance so that they can be relieved. The Christian People's Party believes that the dementia telephone and conversation groups provide valuable guidance and support to relatives. The Christian People's Party believes that for many years a neglected group has been people with mental disorders. There is a need for a vigilance for this patient group. This ceiling is outlined in the psychiatry escalation plan. In order to achieve the objectives that we set here in the Stortinget, the provision of services within psychiatry needs to be significantly strengthened in the next few years. This patient group is a group of complex problems. Studies show that this group, among others: often have poor living conditions. This must also be followed up. I would now like to say a little about the experience with the retirement plan after two years. It shows that the four-year plan is on track and that over the period 1998–2001, one will strengthen the care of the elderly with the 24 400 health centres/housings and the 12 000 annual works that were the target. Providing sufficient staff is a major challenge. The Christian People's Party has on several occasions pointed to the great potential of the 14 000 pre-trained nurses who are not working or working with anything else. At the same time, it is important to continue decentralised education. Many have been concerned that there are few hospitals built at the start of the reform. At 53 pst. of the annual work until now is related to the home service, may indicate that much attention has been paid to nursing homes. More than Christian People's Party was pleased when the department sent out a press release at the end of November that documented that development has now turned upside down. The household bank’s figures for approved projects indicate that the proportion of nursing homes is increasing. The Christian People's Party liked less the press release that the Social Minister sent out in May. The Council of State would close the reform and allocate the remaining places that each municipality would be allowed to build, even if the municipalities had plans for much more. In St.meld. No 34 for 1999–2000, only 5 000 dwellings need to be built during the period 2002–2007. At the same time, the government says that this estimate may be somewhat high! The analyses did not match the reality. The municipalities stood up against the Government and the Workers' Party. The situation was not consistent with the real needs and, not least, the expectations that this reform had created. The Christian People's Party supported the uprising, and we are pleased that the Government was distorting the budget of the year and proposed that 5,000 new dwellings be built in 2002. Exact figures will have to be added until the deadline for applying expires on 30 June. The right to exclusive rights shall apply from 2003. I think it might be difficult. The pressure in hospitals is high. More and more patients are already being discharged from hospitals. Competence is increasing. More people need rehabilitation and aftertreatment. And more demand short-term stays. Corridor Asians are unworthy. The Minister of Social Affairs should follow developments closely, so that a person has enough sick homes to give exclusive space to those who want it. The Christian People's Party is pleased that a joint committee wants the House Bank's rules for the modernisation of older buildings to be made more flexible, so that one avoids the need to replace well-functioning nursing homes with new ones. As regards Document No: 8:74 in 1999-2000, I must say that it is a little strange that the Progress Party, which always speaks strongly for private companies and privatisation, now wants the state to run nursing homes in southern countries. Finally, let me point to the importance of good care and care for the seriously ill and dying. The Life Support Committee focused its attention on this issue. The Christian People's Party believes that as far as possible provision must be made for care in the final phase of life to take place in or near home. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to develop a good-quality elderly care based on the fact that the elderly will live at home for as long as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e338	The action plan for the care of the elderly, adopted in the United Kingdom in 1997, brought together a broad majority. Similarly, the evaluation of the action plan takes place after two years. There is a broad political consensus on the commitment to care for the elderly. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his thorough work, and I would also like to refer to the statement he made and the vote by the Committee. There is no need to go into this in detail, but there are some things I would like to elaborate. The size now calls on the Government, in the context of the 2002 budget, to come back with an assessment of the investment and operational needs of the elderly in the coming years, taking into account the needs notified by the municipalities by the deadline of 30 June. Then we will have the opportunity to make further adjustments in the autumn if necessary. The four-year action plan is on track, and we are pleased about that. This is a good and realistic plan. But it's the lack of caregivers and caregivers that should worry us all, and it's a huge challenge to secure recruitment. I'll come back to that. The policy of care for the elderly must be based on respect and security for individuals and adapted to the needs of individual users. And there must be choices. If we're going to create a good old age care, it doesn't just keep building out a nursing home. Elder care is more than exclusive. It must be a wide range of care services. There is a need for more sick homes and more nursing homes with development opportunities to provide short-term facilities, rehabilitation, places for people at the end of their lives and long-term care for those who need it. In particular, the offer of age dentures must be improved. A differentiated care is important. All institutional research shows that people adapt to the needs of the institution, quite quickly, regardless of age. Through such adaptation, many lose the last remaining self-care capacity they have. They may be small, but they are important to the individual's human dignity. If we are to meet the individual’s needs and stimulate the individual’s own resources, it is important to establish an obliging care plan for the individual, where users, relatives and service providers are familiar with the nature of the services offered. It has been found that many municipalities choose to build out residential housing at the expense of nursing homes because the operation falls more reasonably for the municipalities. The result is too few places for good luck. Therefore, the Right considers that a higher start-up grant should be granted to nursing homes with related staff on the same lines as the health home grant in order to ensure that adequate provision is developed with good luck care and care. At the same time, the start-up grant to care homes served by home care and home care can be maintained. Such a scheme will better meet the need for day care, and greater flexibility in the supply. The right is pleased with the support we received from the SV and the Progress Party, but unfortunately it does not provide a majority. But I hope that this proposal will mature in the other parties. As I was concerned, the lack of caregivers and caregivers and the consequences they will have for the care of the elderly in the future are very serious. We're not just talking about a future crisis. There is already a large shortage of staff across the country. The increase in the number of older people takes place at the same time as the youth opts for care. Following the introduction of Reform 94, the search for health and care was dramatically reduced, even halved in six years. This is very serious. Without filling from below, today’s care workers age in line with the steady population. Elder care competes with the hospitals for help nurses and nurses and may risk being left with food service table crumbs for recruitment. Without several hands, it will not be possible to carry out a good and dignified care for the elderly. Therefore, the recruitment of carers must be a high priority task, and I would strongly ask the Government to enter into a dialogue with the professional organisations to find solutions that can ensure recruitment. Those are the ones who know where the shoe prints, and what it takes to make sure that those who are in the profession today are, and not least that we are recruiting new ones. With regard to the proposals of the Progress Party on the Norwegian State Caring Company – STATOMSORG – it does not sound good to me. And it surprises me that it sounds like music to the liberals in the Progress Party. The proposal that the State should own and provide care for the elderly in other countries in such a way as to enable the Progress Party to contribute is in favour of the Right. Extensive expansion of the provision of services in the form of hospitals and nursing homes in other countries could weaken the provision of services in the municipalities, resulting in more bureaucracy. In other words, there is less use of resources. We believe, however, that a stay in the South can be a good offer for someone. It is now open for the House Bank to participate in the financing, and we believe that this is positive. The right considers that these places must be included as part of the plans of each municipality. The municipality of Bærum is now planning to build nursing homes in the South, and several municipalities are buying or renting places so that they have an opportunity to offer stays for the elderly who want to do so and who benefit from it. This is a model Right supports. In the case of St.meld. No 28 on the content and quality of care services, Care 2000, it is at least that it is very wordy, little concrete, but full of kindness and – I would like to add – of course. The message would clearly be a better input to the Value Commission than to the Storing. But the message has now even come to this house, and we have tried to make the best of it. The message sets out the searchlight at the meeting between the provider and the recipient of the services. Particular attention has been paid to the development and maintenance of the attitudes of carers and their ethical competence, the situation of the growing age group and the ethical boundaries for the use of coercion — and this is important and necessary. As the rapporteur has explained, there is, not unexpected, broad agreement on the value base of care services and most of what has been discussed in this communication, and it also shows the attitude. But it has always been, and it has been expressed through various large-scale messages and propositions that have been dealt with in the Storting for many years. It's neither new nor spectacular. What is alarming, on the other hand, is the call from the Government and the majority of municipalities to avoid the outsourcing of municipal services, despite the fact that it can provide better quality services and greater freedom of choice for users. The right has long argued that it is particularly important to highlight the quality and content of care services. The Minister of Social Affairs of the Workers' Party recently stated that she is concerned that Granny should receive the best services, not by whom they are provided. This opinion gave hope for a more open approach to new instruments and private actors in the care of the elderly by the Workers' Party, but now we see that the tone is different. In the setting, the game writes that «municipal operations are the easiest to plan and provide the necessary stability and calm, both for the beneficiaries and for the employees». This is disappointing and does not promise good for the necessary modernisation of the public sector to which the Workers' Party otherwise speaks. Here, the will for change has obviously evaporated. Municipal operations may provide both tranquility and stability for municipalities, but the need for care becomes the loser if consideration for the convenience of municipalities and employees becomes more important than the best possible offer to users. The starting point for the debate on how to organise care services should not be a desire to calm down for municipalities, but a desire for changes that give a stronger focus on quality and a better offer to the individual caregiver. And why should the elderly and the disabled not be given the same right to choose a nursing home, a nursing home or who should help them in their own home, when patients are given the right to choose a hospital? There is no good reason to discriminate. For this reason, the Right will expose to competition both home health care and home care services. If older people and disabled people are to have a greater influence over the provision of assistance, more than the municipality’s people have to get away with it. Health surveillance has demonstrated, through extensive studies, serious quality deficiencies in the care of the elderly. In many municipalities, the quality control of the offer has been very poor. When the municipality evaluates the work of the municipality, the answer will often be that the municipality does a good job. Studies by the Health Authority have shown that there is no case for the care of the elderly. The need for new solutions that can ensure a good and worthwhile offer to older people and caregivers is evident. And people see this. A poll The nations published last summer showed that 68 p.m. of those over 50 years of age, do not trust public care for the elderly. By separating the order and delivery roles, we can give greater attention to the quality of care for the elderly. Local authorities must, in a tender situation, put quality requirements on the table. Researcher Lars Nygård at the Resource Centre for Care Services has pointed to this issue and that the tendering process reveals that: ‘The requirement for institutions which the municipalities themselves operate is ‘best suited to the situation’. Where a tender is to be made, the requirements must be clarified on the table.`; The former social minister, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, said clearly no to the outsourcing of elderly care. She claimed that we needed more knowledge, but she disregarded that new knowledge presupposes that someone goes ahead and tries out new solutions. A number of Right-Handed municipalities have just done that. Asker and Moss were out early. In Oslo, the result of a bidding round was that the municipality's own institutions were entrusted with the task. So the experiences of the municipalities that have gone ahead are promising. The private operation of the care services does not mean that the public should waive responsibility for these services. Competition launching and privatisation are not the same, although some representatives from the trade union movement and the left-hand side of the Workers' Party are trying to produce it like this. Privatisation means that the public discharges the responsibility for a service. This is not the case in the case of care for the elderly. There is a broad cross-political consensus here that good care services remain a public responsibility. The disagreement is about how the public should discharge this responsibility. The most important thing for the Right is that the public finances and imposes requirements on the quality of services. Competition is not a question of ideological choice, but of practical policy and how to find the best solutions. In addition, it turns out that working conditions are getting better for employees, tasks are becoming more varied and wages are getting better. There are precisely these issues that professional organisations point to in terms of maintaining and recruiting both assistants and caregivers for this sector. The right is not at all reluctant to the public sector, but is kind to the challenges of health and elderly care. I don't think everything private is good, and everything public is bad. However, public activities should not be a form of protective cultural memory that must be preserved at all costs. We need to change the systems and create new ones that trigger creativity, quality and human care for the benefit of those who depend on these services and who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e395	St.meld. No 28, Content and quality of care services, Care 2000, is linked to other issues that Stortinget has recently dealt with. I would like to mention both the Patient Rights Act, the Health Personnel Act, the Law on Specialist Service and also the Law on Mental Health Protection. What is common to these four laws is that they point in concrete ways both to patients’ rights and to the obligations of health professionals, and also to legal regulation relating to measures that are not based on voluntary but coercive, mental health protection law. So you can ask yourself, what is the quality of care services? Many factors can be mentioned. The number of posts in different disciplines, including the distribution of professional groups, is important. Content of both basic and continuing training of the different disciplines is important. And in the case of care services, we also talk about that there are quite large groups working in nursing homes or out in home-based care, who have no professional background at all. There may be students who have completely different subject areas than the ones involved in care, and there may be unskilled people who have obtained vicariates or who work in home-based care or in nursing homes. This is why, in the absence of good practice, both mistreatment and care failure are easily demonstrated. It should be expected that a document dealing with these services will deal with it in a concrete way, but it does not. This document is, as many have been involved, full of goodwill in a number of areas, but so little concrete that it can hardly be used for anything other than taking up space in an archive when we're done dealing with it. Ethical aspects of care work are important both in the training of assistants and nurses and in the field of medical training, and much could have been said that part of the training should have been strengthened within each of these occupational groups, but little is said about it in the document. The same applies to the supervisory activities. What should the content of a supervisory activity be in a nursing home or in home-based care? I heard that the committee's chairman, John Alvheim, mentioned figures that can be cast out. He said there was going to be one doctor in 50 hospital wards. Fortunately, today it is far less than 50. But there's also only part of the week that the hospital doctor is there. Such things can be discussed. The report does not. And I'd say it's an energy to read it, because you're looking for substance and you're barely finding it. In some areas it can be seen that those who have written this have had a personal commitment, and there is a need to safeguard the legal protection of users in the event of any infringement. And it's actually a very important area, I've seen for myself when I've been working out in my home municipality, how difficult it is for the staff to deal specifically with those who are being written out in connection with the HVPU reform, the heaviest of those users, who are called them, who can be exaggerating, and who are very difficult to correct, and where action needs to be taken. And then you want to keep moving on a knife saw and be unsure if what you're doing is legal or not. It's a big ethical dilemma. But I won't give them the advice that in order to solve this ethical dilemma, they should read this message, because the message is moving no closer to a solution to that dilemma. It's like it was said here, very wordy, but those words do little good when you're going to find the right solutions. In some fields – not to be completely unreasonable – I think the message is okay. Under section 7.7 Summary of measures is just mentioned in relation to people with dementia and harm-reduction measures in emergency situations based on criminal law principles of emergency law. But those are things you have to work on from this message. There were some who said that the Committee was united on these considerations. The Committee does not. SV is not involved in one of the comments that the other parties have, we have our own special comments precisely because we feel that this is so much a list of naturalities that you should actually point it out. On top of something else — the action plan for the care of the elderly after 2 years. What can be said about the action plan on care for the elderly is that it has been concrete. It's its strength, and it's also its weakness in many ways. There is no doubt that there has been a development in hospital development in Norway that has been useful. You've secured the quality of the areas, you've secured exclusive space for many people who shouldn't have been in the living room with more people, and you've set a standard of which you'll be honored in many ways. When I say that it is also a weakness, it is because it has in many ways delayed the actual rate of expansion. Many people have been waiting to find a place in a nursing home, but have not received it because two-bed rooms have been converted into one-room rooms. And there you get a dilemma in weighing who should have been given priority. I do not believe, however, that the measures that have been implemented should be severely criticised because they have been correct. But they may have been too much influenced by one-sided focus on nursing homes and the quality of nursing homes and too little attention on the care chain outside of nursing homes. This applies not least to home-based care. It is clear that very many elderly and very many sick people prefer to be able to live at home if the conditions are made right for it. Not least, this means that people who are flexible and who can be at their disposal when needed must be available. It may also be more appropriate to have a system of personal assistants, personal nurses or other health professionals, so that there is a continuity of care and follow-up. This just overlaps with what we talked about earlier, namely care in 2000, but which the report affects too badly. The major challenge ahead of the action plan will be to meet the many different differentiated needs of the population in a flexible way. I registered that Sonja Sjøli spent a good part of his time talking about competitive outsourcing, and that it could lead to improved services. Maybe you can. Turning this into an ideological question, I think I'm completely artificial, but the question is whether that's what it leads to. One of the dilemmas that can be seen in relation to the outsourcing of competition is that you get very isolated considerations about the type of services that it is going to cover, and then you just don't get the whole chain taken care of. If you are to be well cared for, you also need to have your home care, your home care, to play with your nursing homes, you may need to have a common admission in order to distribute your home care or to assess whether someone is going to be in home care or if they are going to be in an institution. However, what should at least be ensured in relation to such a model is an umbrella over all these measures, even if it is put out for competition, in order to have a common professional assessment of how to distribute services. If one also discusses such content in it, it may even be that the element of competition is an incentive for the municipality to look at its services and do it better. I was in a discussion in Asker where it was described that the experience had just been gained that there was a significant improvement in the municipal services, and that the municipal services actually very well competed in price with the services that were exposed to competition. So I think you should look at the content of this more than make it a question of ideology. I note that the Progress Party is promoting a proposal for ‘STATOMSORG’, which it says initially, in the course of the document I see that it becomes ‘STATSOMSORG’, without even the Progress Party paying particular attention to it. This is in many ways alarming. So if you think of the foundation of Anders Lange's party in 1973, there was a strong reduction in taxes, taxes and public intervention. The interesting thing about this proposal is that it contains absolutely everything that Anders Lange opposed. There is both a way to increase the need for tax access — more charges are needed to cover these costs — and there is a very high level of public intervention. And what's interesting in a historical perspective is that it's presented by Carl I. Hagen, who was a huge supporter just of the foundation of the formation of Anders Lange's party. I have read Carl I. Hagen's memoirs several times, as he wrote at a very early time – he was even younger than Erik Solheim was when he wrote hiss – and it must be difficult for him today to swallow some of his own thoughts when he looks back to 1973. The proposal that is being made is, at least, a very bad one. It's just trying to imagine a mirrored system for this, namely that foreigners were going to buy space around Norwegian municipalities, and then they were going to live in the nursing homes where they bought space, partly with Norwegian health professionals, but to a large extent with foreign health professionals. The first party in this room that would have raised resistance would just be the Progress Party, because they would have found the idea completely inconvenient. And that's of course also if you see it the opposite way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e418	In my article, I want to focus most on the content of care services and not so much on the elderly. It is reasonable that, at the entrance of a new hundred years, we will look at both the content and the quality of the care services. We know that a large proportion of the population are in daily contact with the care services, and that they are largely dependent on the help they receive. Even if most people get safe and good help, we also know that a large part of the complaints that come in to the county councils are about people who experience violations. This suggests that health professionals do not see as much as they should, as individuals with different needs. In total care work, there are two factors: the work and the relationship between the two parties. Kari Martinsen has said: ‘It is at wordless level, through its attitude, the caregiver puts the tone on the relationship and can make the other person’s life threatening or safe, powerless or horizontal.’ It's often on the wordless plane that our attitudes come to light. Without notice, we cannot get to the point where we want the recipient of the services to be put in the centre, giving the recipient his/her participation and their need for decisive weight. We have agreed that all those with long-standing and/or complex auxiliary needs should have individual plans. These should follow the users, regardless of what service or meeting the user is needed. These plans have been reported to be often only: plans without follow-up. This, of course, is not useful for users. There is therefore an important work to be done when the Ministry will now try out different models of follow-up. This year is the United Nations Year of Voluntary Work. It is positive that the Government will propose to stimulate voluntary work. Public and professional care can and should not be the only provision. Voluntary Norway has an important role as independent of the public sector, and is an institution for a living democracy and a local community with strong social networks. Public support schemes must support their freedom and autonomy under the organisations. Large groups of caregivers such as age clients, PU clients and psychiatric patients have few or none to talk about. Here I mean the volunteers who engage before care, have a big task. Finally, I would like to address the human resources situation in the care sector. We have read that young people are now failing to provide care. Of course, this is a big problem. A lot of people are going to compete for the kids in the future. Recruitment measures will then be important, but at least as important it will be to look at how you can keep – and keep healthy – those we have in work, and those who are not in a full position. There are many good measures that can be taken, such as: may provide better opportunities for continuing training. This has the ability to do something about the St.meld process. No 20 for 2000-01, on short-term vocational education and training after secondary education. It is also important to look at working conditions and status when it comes to care. Many low-level expressions are used on the population's mouth to describe the care services, for example. «care getto», «care reserve» and «care proletariat». These are descriptive words that don't seem to be online recruiting young people today. Since most people who work in the care sector say that they like their work, they have to be able to find measures that help them stay alive – and then I don't think about removing cash support! If women are more likely to be home for NOK 3000 than to work in the health care centre, they will probably say more about the health care than about the cash support! So we have some challenges ahead of us. We're building housing. The Social Committee was in my municipality, Sveio, and looked at the new care center built there. It's a very nice care center, but it doesn't help much if there's no content in this care center. It doesn't help much with nice buildings, nice furniture and one-on-one if one doesn't have the warm hands that are there and provide care. We see that this reform has cost Kommune-Noreg quite a lot of money because the grant from the state has not covered the large cost of construction itself. It's been a building tree. And here we have a challenge: we have to provide enough resources for Kommune-Noreg to use these resources for the very operation of the fine care centers that are now being planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e450	The Government’s action plan for better care for the elderly provides good results. Examples of shortcomings remain in the care sector. Therefore, it is very gratifying that the Government is in favour of further strengthening in relation to the substantial investment adopted by the Stortinge in 1997. There is reason to rejoice that most in Norway experience a long and good old age. Today's older people belong to a generation that has experienced tougher times on the body, and many I meet express gratitude for the elderly care they receive in their municipality. In particular, there is respect for the many health workers who make a formidable effort in professions that can be heavy both physically and mentally. The size is very much concerned with recruiting these professions. Human contact and good care are at the heart of good care for the elderly. It is also important to have suitable housing and modern institutions. Well-organised dwellings and the security to get help when necessary enable the elderly to manage with less help than when they are alone in their own old dwelling. The municipalities have adapted their development, and I am confident that they will find a good balance between home and old-age housing. The most joyous thing is that capacity is now increasing faster than the number of older people. This is important, also because municipalities are getting more and more young people needing help with relatively high needs. The care housing reform is a reform that also contributes to the circulation of the housing market. It offers new opportunities for younger people in the start-up phase. The picture now looks promising with a further two years of implementation in the municipalities. Some municipalities will also invest in nursing housing in southern countries. It can be a nice offer for groups that are particularly dependent on a warmer climate to keep health problems in check. It is my hope that such offers can be largely based on inter-municipal cooperation on short-term services, so that more, including users from smaller municipalities, can benefit from such a positive opportunity for variation. It is important that the quality of services is improved. However, county doctors have found some to be relevant in their follow-up to the quality directive. So that's the improvement potential. We don't want Corridor Asians in nursing homes. With increasing numbers of tasks transferred from hospital to hospital, the professional level must be well maintained. For example, municipalities must: address new challenges in the field of end-of-life care, and in the field of rehabilitation, and subsequently facilitate care for people of different religions and nationalities. Flexible organisation adapted to the individual requires a smooth organisation. There are many municipalities that have some change work left before you can get the best possible services for the money. We know that a good spirit of cooperation between personnel and each user is essential for well-being and quality assessment. It is natural and important that municipalities facilitate cooperation with organisations and volunteer centres so that institutional life or housing does not become too monotonous and isolated. Municipal employees cannot replace the need for association with others, or a good friend, but the municipality can stimulate voluntary efforts at the community arena, thus helping to make more people feel less lonely in old age. In fact, belonging to a nursing home where volunteers can invite to activities in cosy common areas can improve the quality of life a lot for residents. The Workers' Party believes that municipalities can facilitate flexible service production. We don't look at outsourcing as a magic agent. We want the backbone of our common well-being to be services performed by government employees. Municipalities should be careful to deal with such a situation that they cannot take over private-produced services themselves if prices are increased or quality is not met. If a person wants to improve quality through comparison or competition, there are many ways to do so. Most municipalities can use comparisons between their own production units, but one can also compare across local borders. This allows one to determine what leads to the best-organised services. A further development of the idea contained in the ‘Just person in the right place’ action plan may be the main means of making better use of the money. I believe that municipalities can handle both the fair allocation of services and the development of cost-effective and flexible service production adapted to the individual. On the part of the Labour Party, we do not want the development of a two-part care service, in which they with money secure themselves a lack of staff and good help, while the public, that is. the municipalities in this case, distribute smulters to people with long-term care needs and poor finances. The EUR 34 billion of the Action Plan shall ensure the development of equivalent services allocated on the basis of needs, irrespective of where a resident and own-account economy is located. The action plan is a good example of confidence-building Community solutions. It is therefore reassuring that a broad majority of the Grand Duchy supports the Government’s work on comprehensive public care for the elderly, including all those in need of assistance, care and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e491	A number of municipalities are planning to establish hospitals and nursing homes in southern countries. It may seem that the Government will put difficulties in the way of these municipalities. The party of progress believes this is an unfortunate situation. The promotion party is of the opinion that an offer should be made for places that municipalities can buy or rent for a shorter or longer period of time, to older people who want such a stay in southern countries. It is worth noting that this should be an offer for those who want it. It is therefore not a measure to send older people out of the country against their own wishes, as some have tried to produce it. Some large and rich municipalities may have a financial backbone to be able to handle such an expansion, but most municipalities in this country will not be able to provide this service. In order to ensure the rapid and extensive development of nursing homes and nursing homes in southern countries, the Progress Party has proposed the establishment of a State limited liability company with a share capital of 500 million. kr for both the construction and operation of such institutions. The Progress Party believes it is a public responsibility to ensure that all people are provided with the necessary health and care services. This is best ensured by the fact that the State also assumes financial responsibility for the care of the elderly. The Progress Party believes that a company such as the one mentioned in this case will lead to a faster deployment and good organisation of such an offer. I would like to make it clear once again that this is an offer, not a forced one, which some prefer to make as. In this context, I recall right after the Social Minister was appointed, when a newspaper had a two-page statement that a non-wanted retirement party in the South. Well, this proposal does not go up to the elderly, but it is an offer to Norwegian patients, so that on their own initiative, if they want it, they can come to southern countries. In conclusion, the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo went into frontal attacks on this company. He talked about how terrible it was, and said that party president Carl I. Hagen had to have a lot of trouble reading his own biography from a few years ago. Well, I don't think that's the case, because this builds on public responsibility to make sure that there's an offer so that those who want to make use of it get the opportunity to do so. And I just have to say that when the representative of the Socialist Left Party goes to the frontal attack on this proposal of the Progress Party to set up such a company, then I know we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e506	Giving all older ones a worthy old age is an important value for the Christian People's Party. That is why we were the drivers of the action plan for the care of the elderly. This two-year report, and in particular the supplement in 5,000 additional places, is a necessary measure to ensure that our elderly people are safe to receive the necessary care. The Christian People's Party is pleased that Social Minister Guri Ingebrichtsen will not follow the principle of the 'priority of the mill'. It was also one of the reasons why the Christian People's Party, together with the other party, reacted strongly this summer to the government sending a letter to the municipalities about their'residual quota' in the elderly effort long before the application deadline expired. The municipalities had planned a total of 38,500 places. We meant that whoever's wearing the shoe knows best where he's printing. And of course, the municipalities have firsthand knowledge of what one needs within the care of the elderly. Therefore, the bulk of the gross domestic product in the setting of the municipal economicproposition was as follows: «The Government asks the Government to continue the older reform without restrictions on approvals of new projects until the Stortinget has dealt with St.meld. No 34.’» So that's the message we're now processing. The claim from Stortinget was clear. It was therefore absolutely necessary that the government in the state budget – three months after the message was made – found that there was a need for much stronger expansion than that of St.meld. No Thirty-four. In fact, it is very good that we have an opposition that requires that older people's needs be taken seriously. The Christian People's Party will wait for the deadline for application on 1 July 2001 and look at the needs of the applications before we finally take a position on how many housing and nursing homes one really needs to build. I also hope that the Government now, when a sister is built adequately with nursing homes, will become more flexible with regard to, for example, health care facilities. square metres required for conversions. There is a need to use sound judgement so that older buildings can also be converted into suitable old-age places without too much square legislation. When local authorities give feedback to the municipal committee that they get no decent conversions that would give older good and decent housing, because the room is 2 m2 too small, but still very functional, it's too square. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that quality is put into care for the elderly, and that the elderly can stay home for as long as possible. When a person has to move anyway, the rent in the care unit is often very high. Therefore, the Christian People's Party was absolutely in favour of keeping the stencil of light and heat to the lowest-pensioners in the course of the year's budgetary procedure. That's 160 million. kr for this purpose came into place again, meaning thousands in supports for those who have the least. When our older people need care, it's important to have rooms, and it's important to have a bed. But the most important thing is, perhaps, care and care — the security of someone in place to take care of both the soul and the body, and then there is a lot to grasp when this action plan is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e526	Norway has become a country where we can see old age facing greater security. Care is to give people the help they need, and to give it with care, respect and dignity. Spikes and hammers, hands and heart – capacity and quality – all are necessary prerequisites for providing good care services. I am pleased to say that the action plan on care for the elderly is in good hands. The results after three years show that this has been a necessary and so far successful bet. More than 18 000 nursing homes and homes have already been built or under construction. The negative trend in health care coverage has been reversed and the offer has been effectively strengthened for the first time in many years. It's also a pleasure that the exclusive sales are starting to shoot speed. Reports from the municipalities show that in 2000 well over 9 000 more annual shifts were carried out in the care service than before the action plan was launched. Now it's our job to unload this plan well in port, and I'm glad to see that it can happen on the basis of broad political consensus. A key prerequisite for success is that we can still give the municipalities predictability and known framework conditions. As I promised here in Stortinget last summer, the Government has arranged to extend the action plan with a further 5,000 nursing homes and nursing homes in 2002, and this will be followed up with staff in line with the needs estimate of 5,500 yearly jobs in the coming years. I would also like to point out that it is open to grant start-up grants to hospitals and nursing homes built outside Norway. The prerequisites for granting grants are that the projects are part of municipal care for the elderly and that the regulations and guidelines applicable in general to the scheme are followed. It's important that we guarantee the individual's rights when we first offer them, no matter where people are. Our major challenge in the future will be to ensure equal treatment between municipalities, especially because the big cities are still somewhat behind. The government will keep the Storting informed of the status of the implementation of the Action Plan and will provide the Storting with an assessment of the investment and operational needs over the coming years in the context of the 2002 State budget. The action plan is, above all, a policy of care for those who have a great need for care and care. The action plan should not be remembered for empty hospital wards and care homes with a lack of security. Adequate and qualified personnel are a crucial factor. So far, we can point to positive results, but recruitment measures must address the challenges we face at all times. In line with Stortinget’s wish, a new action plan is now under way. More attention needs to be paid to actions that make staff stay in their posts and that make more people move from part-time to full-time. Management development and work environment improvements are important. A well-functioning supervision system is necessary to ensure the quality of services. The Government therefore aims to present proposals for changes to the Social Services Act so that it is also possible to supervise the services provided in nursing homes. Interactions between family and relatives, volunteers and the public are important. Services must facilitate support and relief from relatives. Cooperation with non-governmental organisations, in particular through voluntary centres, is important, perhaps particularly for prevention purposes. Today, technology is progressing rapidly, including in health and care services. Technology can be a useful tool to help more people live at home. Ethical considerations and human dignity considerations will be essential for the choice of measures and solutions in this field. Age dementia is a serious disease that leads to a gradual loss of self-care ability and insight into your own needs. The likelihood of being hit by the age sentence is increasing significantly with increasing age. The loss of the ability to understand can be partly compensated for by measures to which the demente itself consents. In order to prevent damage, however, the necessary measures sometimes have to be taken without the consent of the demented parties. In the care of this group, one will often face the choice of failing to provide care to someone who needs it and violating his integrity. In our society, there is tradition of intervening and ensuring that people who lack the ability to take care of themselves are not destroyed. Today’s legislation is both unclear and deficient, and we do not escape the issue of legislation when considering measures to improve the legal certainty of this group. The causes of coercion are many and complex, so we also need to look at other instruments. Actions aimed at the competence, attitudes and organisation of the environment and procedures according to their needs will also be important. Care 2000 also addresses the issues related to the most heavily burdened drug users. Poverty in this group is high, and the number of drugrelated deaths is higher than ever. The Ministry therefore carries out an overall review of the overall care of drug users. As part of the follow-up to the Equalisation Communication and in cooperation with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the House Bank, the Ministry has launched a pilot project to help the most disadvantaged homeless. Many in this group are heavily burdened by abuse problems. The project aims to develop and gain experience with different types of necessary follow-up of persons living in owner-occupied dwellings. I welcome the Committee's agreement to develop guidance on quality in the treatment of drug users. With regard to professional secrecy, priority must be given to facilitating the development of good cooperation relationships across professional and ethos boundaries. Where cooperation works well, the obligation of professional secrecy is usually not a problem. I still think there is a need to look at these conditions. We're implementing a historical expansion in the care of the elderly, and we've reinforced the effort because it's needed. Efforts and quality shall also be increased towards other groups with a high need for good care. We have to sort out what doesn't work well enough, where today's solutions and resources don't stretch. That's how we create a better everyday life for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e562	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e565	The Progress Party has for a long time expressed concerns about the number of hospitalisation sites built in Norway. In the past, we have been told by the Social Minister that the development of hospitals, i.e. the development of nursing centres with day care and care is planned. Nevertheless, it has recently emerged in the media that 2,000 are in line for hospitalization in Norway, and many of them have in part been waiting for a long time. Look-ups include: TV 2 showed that the big cities were very late with their plans, and among other things. The mountain was set out as an example of horror in the case of insidiousness in the expansion. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs is: what must we do with these big cities and municipalities that are in poor shape, and are therefore unable to provide a health care facility to their nursing residents?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e574	The representative Nesvik addresses a question that there is every reason to worry about. When we go through the action plan for the care of the elderly after 2 years, we see that the municipalities that have come short are the largest cities. There are several reasons for this. It has to do with land prices, and it also has to do with organization. In a city like Oslo, we see that the age structure of the population within a city changes significantly in a short time. Therefore, a part of a city in a big city cannot be compared to a normal Norwegian municipality, because the changes are going so much faster. But precisely because we see that it's in relation to the big cities we have to pay particular attention to, we'll do it now as it approaches the end, because, as I also said in my post, the challenges we face are a fair distribution between the municipalities and a reasonable distribution between the nursing home and the nursing home. I have just received a letter from the County Board in Oslo about the situation in this city, and I have seen the same feature on TV 2 as the representative Nesvik, and it dismayed me that a person should have to have a lay-off in five different places. I don't think that's right, and I'll be very careful in my follow-up of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e581	As the Social Minister has probably noticed, the representatives of the Christian People's Party and several other parties in their main posts put great emphasis on the need to get enough health professionals in the future. We're also worried about the kidney recruitment. There is a dramatic decrease in the number of young people applying for health and social education. Does the Minister for Social Affairs think that the work on recruitment campaigns announced by the Ministry in the Annual Report has worked well so far? If we don't get enough health professionals in the future, there may also be other major health reforms that we want to implement, such as the cancer plan and the psychiatry plan. Health professionals have tended to give priority to hospital work rather than work at home and in the first-line service. A unanimous committee believes that rapid action needs to be considered to address this serious situation. What rapid action does the Council of State plan to recruit and maintain health professionals in the first line service?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e590	As a social minister, I am delighted to travel around the country and look at the practical care of the elderly, and as the representative Duesund said in his main post, I have also had the pleasure of distributing the care price to the municipality of Tvedestrand. At the nursing home there, I was informed that they had weekly enquiries from nurses who wanted to work there. I think that's a pleasure, because I've heard the same thing from other places, where you have good care for the elderly, where people want to work. The main measure that the Government can implement is therefore to provide good care for the elderly, because it is actually so that it is also easier to provide care and thus easier to recruit. But it is worrying that so few young people today choose health education. It's a little related to the fact that the coals are actually smaller, so that the competition for the young has increased. It also has a little to do with what's modern, and care doesn't seem to be the most modern now. We have to do something about that. It is a challenge for everyone who is in this sector, from the washing machine and to the social minister, to find that there are actually good jobs, and then we must do it in such a way that these jobs become good. On the part of the Ministry, we are working in particular on quality and management development. We know a part about what's going to happen, and we're going to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e597	I am pleased that the Minister of Social Affairs is happy – for which I am also – both for those nursing homes that have good care for the elderly, and for those municipalities that have it, and where it is easier to ensure a good recruitment for that reason. But it doesn't pay the carers a living wage, because that's what it's all about. The Minister of Social Affairs said in his statement that recruitment measures must be tailored to those groups that are in great need, and said that a few of the measures that could help were to go from part-time to full-time work and to focus on leadership development, and I agree with that. That's good, but it's far from enough. As the Minister of Social Affairs said, the measures must be tailored, and the group concerned is assisted and caregivers – there is a group of low-paid women. And my question to the social minister is, Will she cooperate with the trade unions on action to improve recruitment? And finally, does the Minister of Social Affairs think that the pay conditions for underpaid women in the care sector mean something to the recruitment? And in the case, what does the government want to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e606	With regard to cooperation with the professional organisations in the sector, I can assure the representative, Sjøli, that we have a good cooperation with them. As I said in my previous post: Good care agencies actually recruit, and they give the same wages as those who don't recruit. So pay is definitely not the only thing that attracts people to the sector. But I am strongly in favour of wage fixing in this country in cooperation between the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e614	It has, among other things, has been said here today that the manning situation has not been adequately addressed in St.meld. No 28. The government that made that announcement indicated that there would also be an evaluation report on the ageing effort from them, and they said they would come back to the manning situation in it. A majority of the committee has pointed out – and it is not figures that have been cast out, see. what the representative, Mr Ballo, said – that it is a very low manning factor. Among other things, public health homes have a care factor of less than 0.7 years per year. patients, and a medical profession is first a year's work for 150 patients. Will the Minister of Social Affairs change this, so that we get a higher professional factor in care services? Then the Minister of Social Affairs will raise the status and reputation of the care sector and work with the elderly. Can we then interpret the Council of State as saying that one will also increase the appropriations for research in the field of ageing and geriatry, and not as now in the State budget, for example. the research programme under way in Tromsø, with so much funding that the majority of the committee had to try to find at least something extra? So, finally, cost development in terms of development: there are large differences in costs and costs are strongly increasing. Will the Minister of Social Affairs and the Government consider introducing new rates of investment in connection with the review after the deadline for application of 30 June 2001 so that municipalities can afford to build the necessary number of health homes and nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e625	The government is now carrying out a review to assess how it makes sense to look at the two types of institution in the context of hospitals and hospitals. Then it's absolutely necessary, I think, if we're going to look at the hospitals, more like a relief part for the hospitals, which they already function as, that you actually get more professionals into the hospitals. In fact, the care factor that the department has set up when we provide money for operating in municipalities is also higher than 0.7. When it comes to research on geriatrics, we're still going to bet on it. I'll get back to that in the state budget. The amount of investment seems to have been satisfactory, given that municipalities are constantly planning to build more hospitals and seem to be doing it. I think the way the plan has been followed up shows that these are adapted. If we were to change the amount of investment in the planning period, we would have a significant problem with the transition date for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e634	Let me begin by saying that I am personally happy that we now have a social minister who shows far greater interest in our unhappy drug addicts than we have seen for a long time. The size decided during the budgetary procedure that general medicine specialists are now to be given the opportunity to prescribe drugs in a medically assisted rehabilitation of these people. My first question is this: When can we expect the practical impact of this decision? The second question is closely related to the first one. New rules have been put in place on the handling of medicinal products for pharmacies, where this decision, as the Stortinget made, is strongly contrary to the regulations that were in place and were to apply from 1 January 2001. Has there been any change in this way, so that the entry into force of these regulations has been postponed, because it must be done to coordinate this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e643	When it comes to drug treatment for drug addicts, it has been imperative for me to get better organisation of this, so that we not only produce vending machines. We are going through this and have received the Storting decision that general practitioners should be able to prescribe these drugs. With regard to the drugs that are currently being used, addictive drugs with significant street value are to be printed to patients with extensive street sales experience. That's why there's a need to have a control over this, so the rule of distribution is meant to follow up the danger we have here for spreading. In Denmark, in fact, every four overdose deaths are methadone-related. We have to make sure it doesn't get like this. But I will come back to the state budget with a comprehensive review and suggestions on how the whole change is going to be. The number of people currently involved in methadone projects is over 1000, so that is at least some improvement. With regard to the supply regulation, it shall apply from 1 April, with a transitional period of six months.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e654	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e657	St.meld. No 28 The content and quality of care services is a broad review of the contents and values of care to be provided by the municipality. It is important to have an overall view of these care tasks, regardless of the level of treatment or administration. When a person is in need of public care and services, it is a human right to experience security and respect, to have the opportunity to take care of the sea with necessary care and meals, to feel well-being, to have a chance of association and social contact, and to have a normal daily rhythm and a sheltered privacy. A meaningful everyday life also involves offering varied and meaningful activities. I see it as a matter of course that the necessary health care and treatment is provided according to the needs, and that those providing the services take care of the necessary hygiene, including in the case of teeth. I know that it is not always possible to fulfill all this all day of the week. Many years ago I was visiting the middle of the day on a Sunday with a distant relative. She still sat in the nightdress, she had not received the help in the morning which was promised. Unfortunately, this happens sometimes even today. Lookups in the newspaper reveal such defects, but I believe that these are the exceptions today. It is popular journalism to have dramatic answers to health and care shortages, while the vast majority of caregivers are actually met by an auxiliaries who are ready to make plans to meet the needs of the individual and as conversations with users and relatives to find good solutions. But one rarely sees headlines in the media about someone who says they're doing well, gets the help they need and is grateful for it. The grandfather of one of my childhood friends came to the hospital after amputating both legs. Once I was inside, he said, "I only have one thing to complain about, and that's that they're too kind here!" So it's not just failure and lack, as one can sometimes believe, but also many who are positive and satisfied. The statutory requirement for individual plans is a useful tool to ensure user perspective. Many groups must have their needs met. Care 2000 discusses those groups that have specific needs. Not only the elderly, but also those in the care and psychiatry sectors, mentally retarded, physically disabled and dying people need good and valuable services from primary health care, home care and, where appropriate, temporary services from institutions. Care is a broad concept. Care is provided by the family, the circle of friends, the community, voluntary care providers and the public. The interaction between them is important. The user must be in the centre and must help himself to meet his needs. The public sector must continue to be our main instrument for equality, well-being and equalisation. It must therefore be expanded and improved by the allocation of increased resources. We need to create organisational solutions that enable the public sector to meet new challenges. Therefore, a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre believe that the public should be at the forefront of services in important welfare areas. Non-profit organisations, cooperatives and self-initiatives providing services and performing tasks on behalf of the public are very important for the achievement of tasks in the common interest, and it is very important to facilitate such initiatives. Such offers are often included as part of public plans in different areas, such as: treatment provision for drug users. Such offers are necessary to ensure capacity and variation. It is important that the role and working conditions of such establishments are clarified. Cooperation between the public and private sectors is still needed, and it is a prerequisite for ensuring universal governance, quality and distribution of supply. Core tasks in the education and health and care sectors must not be put on the market and left to private individuals. The main importance of the tasks in these areas needs to be addressed by the public. Private service providers shall only act as a complement. If private individuals are behind the main emphasis of offers in an area, the possibility of popular governance, responsibility and prioritisation in these areas will be weakened over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e681	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e684	As I announced in my first post, I had something more on my mind when it came to Care 2000. I would like to make it clear that defining a caregiver does not have to be done in such a way that one looks at these caregivers as a uniform group, but each recipient must be respected and treated as the individual he or she is. I spent some time before today talking about the importance of user involvement and participation. Another area that is important in terms of care is the existence of diversity in care, and there is considerable room for it within this concept. Time does not allow me to go into more of the areas covered by the setting, but I would like to remind you that, among other things, the majority. encourages the Government to continue to work on and prioritize, among others. the scheme of care pay, personal assistants, knowledge and bridge construction, green care, culture and health, equal work, volunteer centres, the elderly centres and also the contact telephone system such as: National aid operates. This may seem non-committal, but I think that when a majority points this out and asks the Government to follow it up, it is obliging both to magnification and government to follow up in budgetary terms and to give priority. I also expect SV to be aware of any of this, although the representative Ballo made such a strong reservation, in relation to the fact that these were only empty words. As the rapporteur, I have emphasised the majority view in the vote on Care 2000 but I would like to stress that this is also a position that the Centre Party has taken, and which we share with a majority, among others. know that, in our opinion, we have also made some of these things concrete. It seems that there is a certain reservation in relation to discussing ethics. I think that's a bit of a shame, because I think ethics must be at the root of economics and material priorities. And when the representative Ballo says it's an energy to read this message, it's okay, it's his vision, and it's not all the groceries that are equally easy to read. But I think there's so much to worry about here, that maybe it should start a follow-up, especially when you're so critical of a lot of what's going on here. The representative, Ballo, also said that the action plan for the care of the elderly is concrete and that it is its strength and its weakness. I might be a little bit afraid that it's just being concrete that's dangerous in terms of ethics. I think we should be more specific about ethics and content in care. When it comes to evaluating the elderly, I want to say a few things. The manning situation is important. It must be followed up with better and decentralised training and rotational arrangements, employment and a level of pay which makes it more attractive. With regard to the economy, I refer you to the committee's proposal for a decision in the vote. A unanimous committee says that we will come back to this after the deadline for applying on 30 June, and I would like to comment – perhaps in a later article – on what I think should be followed up there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e699	In 2000, care was provided on the basis of a request and a need to put the search light on the content and quality of the care sector. The message was based on a shared idea by professionals and organisations. Very many caregivers now experience better conditions than too few years ago. The Elder Plan, the Action Plan for the disabled and the strengthening of social services and the drug field have produced results. Yet: It is still a long way to go before all those needing help experience being met with dignity and respect. There is a need to strengthen supervision. There is a need for the same quality requirements for non-institutional and non-institutional services, both in terms of the expectations of those in need of assistance and in terms of those performing the care services. There is a need for limits in relation to postponing competition, and there is a need to strengthen and stimulate all valuable voluntary efforts. There is also a great need for knowledge, especially for this knowledge of the 60 000 dentures. The message refers to Søndre Borgen in Asker as an example of what knowledge, good staff, professional stimulating environment and a good interaction between specialist services and municipalities may have to say to people before the age psychiatry. For the sake of those working in this sector, and perhaps especially for the sake of the dentures, I find it sad that this message has been in the Storting for a year. I am pleased that the message has been received well in many workplaces and in many organisations and educational institutions. I am very surprised that those who have criticised the content of the message most today have not taken greater care to ensure the necessary suggestions for improvement. This is particularly true of Alvheim and the Progress Party, who have often cried out loud from this pulpit on measures for greater dignity. It is also surprising that SV is more willing to report than to report in this area. In the case of dentures, there is a need for legal regulation in relation to emergency damage prevention, for the establishment of ethical care obligations, for representation rules in cases where the individual does not oppose action, and for regulation in relation to the use of technology, alarm and other technical solutions. I want to ask the Minister for Social Affairs what progress she has in relation to the necessary borderlines.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e716	Ethics, human dignity – it's okay and it's important, but there must be a certain relationship between life and learning, in all political parties. I asked for the word now to finish what I did not get in my first post. It goes on with the staffing of our care institutions in particular, and there I can stress what has also been said by the social minister, that good care for the elderly also provides better recruitment. It got the experience when we were visiting the municipality of Sveio not many weeks ago. More generally, I would like to refer to a look-up in one of the Oslo newspapers recently, where a survey among nursing students shows that between 40 and 50 pst. of those who were in nursing school today, would not care for the patients. It's an alarming signal. I don't know what to do with it, but it's quite alarming. Otherwise, the Advancement Party is of the opinion that we currently have enough health professionals in Norway if we facilitate the use of this healthcare professional, both nurses and not least caregivers. Then we have to do something with two ratios. One is the understaffing in our nursing home. You simply can't work in the nursing homes when you have to go home every day and have a bad conscience because you didn't get it done for the patients that you wanted to do, because the manning is just too low. When, on average, we have an average care factor of about 0.7 and an age average of patients aged 85 and over, with multiple diseases to be treated daily, each of us should understand that this is too bad. Another thing that has been mentioned – which I would like to mention and have done before: it also has something to do with the remuneration of health professionals. They're a low-wage group, and it's clear that to recruit them back to health care from other services they have today, we, in addition to looking at working conditions, manning, have to increase wages for these categories. Then, of course, you can say as the social minister said, and rightly so, that it is not her table to negotiate wages. No, it's not. But it's the employer's, it's the municipality's responsibility. And the municipalities that do this also improve the recruitment situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e730	I take the floor in response to Ola Glötvold, because I understand that both he and former social minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa are dissatisfied with the fact that SV is not included in these remarks. We could have done that. There's a number of considerations in which we initially agree. But I think you can synthesize the message down on one sentence to find out what it says, and it can be said as follows: "You shouldn't bother others, you should be nice and nice, and otherwise you can do what you want." Of course, you can agree on these kinds of considerations, or you can say that you want some kind of special consideration where you try to capture the substance in this, and it's that, as I said instead, little of that in the message. I think you can do a lot more than what this message has done, by adding up to, among other things. the training is specifically linked to the ethical aspects of care, its content, requirements for professional staff, requirements for the type of staff required for nursing homes and home-based care, etc. But as soon as you start talking about it, you also talk about expenses. And of course you don't talk about that here, because you don't release that money for that purpose. I believe that what you can well problem is the commitment to better services in the municipalities, at the expense of the enormous increase in costs that you have had in the hospital sector, because then you get a discussion about real content, about quality, about priorities and about where the investment should be, while what is here becomes too non-committal. And then I found that it could be okay: let's mark it by standing on our own notes – and now people are getting indignant about it. I also record when you get the debate on competitive outsourcing, how important it is to be precise in the concepts. What are you going to compete at? Because it becomes very fast a competition on price in an area where it really goes at the expense of quality. I don't think that, unlike in the hospital sector, it's very much to save in Norwegian nursing homes or in home-based care by further reducing the costs by allowing those who work there to run faster, or that they should be fewer on each shift. On the contrary, I believe that there is much to be done in a large social perspective to facilitate more resources into the care sector, more staff in the home care sector and better staffing at the nursing homes, because there are some sort of consequences of reducing the burden on the hospital sector. It'll be easier to write people out of hospitals, and you'll be able to solve the problems in a more social way at all. And then I think that part of the elements you bring in in relation to the competitive outsourcing is helping to exacerbate the situation further. So when discussing outsourcing, I would like both the Right Party and the Advance Party to be precise about what you are discussing: what kind of manning factor do you want, what kind of content you want in services, and how can you ensure the quality of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e739	I have drawn myself to answer a question from the representative of Meltveit Kleppa about the kind of time perspective I have when it comes to the follow-up of the law on coercion in relation to dementia. As I said in my main post, dementia is a state that affects many, and where there is power sometimes to actually use force to contribute to human dignity. Therefore, it is also important to have a law that regulates this type of use of coercion. There are a few groups in Norway that apply, and now it is almost so that they have their own law. I don't know if I think that's the luckiest way it could be. Another group for which we now have a temporary law is mentally retarded. There we have allowed the reference group to assess this for an additional two years to do so. They themselves have asked for it – it is a unanimous reference group that has done so. In the case of proposals for coercion in relation to dentures, it will be consulted, but it will be promoted at the same time in the Stortinget as a supplement to Section 6A of the Social Services Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e748	I have noticed that Alvheim in his article today used the expression that someone has called for a new law of coercion. I would like to make it clear that what I think is needed now, above all, is limits to what we and the current Minister for Social Affairs stand together, but in specific cases, both for the consideration of each dement and for the uncertainty that exists in this sector today. I want to warn against continuing to work extensively in the same direction as the law we now have around mental retardation. So I'm satisfied with the answer from the social minister at this point. So I'll actually distance myself from that St.meld. No 28 is a rewriting or emancipation of the city of Kardemomme. The fact that the chapter on demente itself is used in educational contexts and as a basis for discussion in many workplaces tells of the need for a closer discussion of their situation. However, parts of this message may be better suited than in this room. So it was also made clear when it was presented, that it was a different message, and it grew up in a sense that for a period of time we were both in collapse and government extremely concerned with the outer frames. This was especially true in the elderly sector, where we talked a lot about buildings, housing or sick homes. So Sonja Irene Sjøli says that the previous social minister took a distance from the start of competition and was not willing to look at attempts to change the path. In fact, there is a number of experience already in the care sector with the release of competition, and it is far from being so positive. That's what made me distance, and I'm glad that today there's a huge majority that's behind that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e757	There's a danger that there's one party that stands out in this length right now, maybe in the same way as some of the written stuff that exists in this case. But once we're invited to debate ethics, I think it's important that we also try to do that, and that we take some of the things that there might be a disagreement about, or that we first talk past each other. I would first like to say something specific about the evaluation plan, which I think is closely related to the content of the care service: I hope we can have a wide-ranging debate on the commitment to care for the elderly and the development of nursing homes and nursing homes after the deadline for applying has expired on 30 June of this year, and that we can also address the physical need, the number of nursing homes and nursing homes that remain, so that we do not lock ourselves to anything now. It is also in line with the Committee's request that it be re-examined at the time. It is also important that we look at cost-reduction measures, including those on the Internet. there is a proposal from the Committee that the Government be asked ‘to review the standard health home requirements of the House Bank so that the requirements for conversion can be slightly different from those for new buildings’. We have several reports that there are municipalities that now consider shutting down relatively good, new and well-functioning hospitals because it is cheaper to build new ones, in particular. the requirement for exclusive space. I also hope that the Minister of Social Affairs will take a closer look at the cost developments we have had in the development of care for the elderly. We get messages in the day that show that the costs are going to be right to the weather, and because of the developments we have in this area of costs, I think we might want to look at the subsidy rates when it comes to setting up. So finally a little bit about ethics. Among other things, I have not mentioned concern for the dying – that is the other thing that has done – and it is an important part of this that shows that we should have both cross-sectoral and multidisciplinary cooperation, as well as cooperation across administrative levels. It must be that the desire of the recipient must count the most. Ballo was in the Cardamom Act, and it's okay. I think it's nice, I, and I think it fits perfectly for someone who probably then also confesses to Ole Brumm's law and swears to it. But I think when the representative Ballo says that there is little substance in this, and that we can do much more, it might have been a contribution to that. I'm not indignant, but I'm surprised that doesn't happen that way. I believe that the priorities that we verbally set in the communication and in the vote will further commit to the budgetary follow-up work that both government and government will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e774	I will not delay the debate. However, with regard to the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa mentioned, it is correct – it is stated in the communication – that she said that she clearly refused to launch the competition and claimed that we needed more knowledge, but did not mean that it presupposes that some people go ahead and try out new solutions. And the message actually says something about it. Examples are the fact that there have been some outsourcings in both the country and Sweden in particular, and that it has been successful – because the quality has become as good, in many places better. That's what's my point. The main point for the Right is not to save money, the main point of competitive outsourcing is to improve the quality of the services we provide. And should there be any money left over, yes, that's good, because that money can be used to put into even more services with even better quality. They can be used for wages and salaries as well as for providing greater flexibility in the offer. That's the right starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e781	Olav Gunnar Ballo has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e784	The SV's comments are very specific on this, and I would like to mention three things: one is that a review of education in the care professions needs to be taken on precisely from ethical perspective; the other is support for competence-raising measures relating to the treatment of people with dementia; and the third is the regulation of the law on harm-reduction measures. In addition – since we are dealing with the messages as a whole – I would like to stress that SV took the initiative to change the provisions on older hospitals so that you do not have the same rigidity as in the case of new hospitals, precisely in order to make use of the capacity they represent. I am pleased that the Workers' Party also had a comment. And I could have thought that you'd gone further to make sure that the good building stock doesn't get lost, but that instead you can rust up the nursing homes you have, in a proper and proper way and use them further. I really hope that the Minister of Social Affairs will come back quickly with changes in the law here, so that the new guidelines can be used in the different municipalities to ensure the operation of the hospitals that exist today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e791	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e794	Perhaps this was a misunderstanding that became active – I guess in the representative, Mr. Sjölis, the post. Let me just underline: it is right that, in the previous government, we dissuaded competition in the care sector. It is also right that I stand by it today. It is clear from the message that there are both good and bad experiences from both Denmark and Sweden in relation to the outsourcing of the care sector, and further investigations or reports have confirmed it. That's what makes one here recommend municipal operations. It is easier to plan, and it creates stability and calm for the recipients and add them. It is important that municipalities take care of their competences and that they have a conscious strategy for organisational development, quality development and efficiency improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e803	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 3. [[Fooding, see page 1748]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e817	Eating disorders affect many and span a very wide range, from minor problems to serious eating disorders with dramatic consequences for those affected and their families. International and Norwegian studies suggest that there may be between 20,000 and 25 000 women with identifiable, severe and treatment-intensive eating disorders. The number may be over 50,000 if we include those who can trigger a treatment need. Eating disorders are complex conditions that may contain both somatic-biological, psychiatric, social and cultural aspects. This means that for a large number of those affected, this requires a broad multidisciplinary and comprehensive treatment system. A common feature of eating disorders is a faulty and disturbed experience of your own body. Performance requirements in several sportsmen, ambitious and incompetent leaders, non-compliance with ethical guidelines in the sport environment and attitudes, especially in managers, may put many sportsmen at risk. I am pleased with the government's initiative towards the advertising industry, where one is now looking at measures to reduce the commercial pressure on children and young people, among other things. in cooperation with key players in the fashion and advertising industries. It is important that these industries now show responsibility. In addition, the body fixation in our culture, where the thinning ideal is prominent, helps promote eating disorders, especially in girls and young women. This is not a full description of the cause of eating disorders, but this tells us that for many there is no shortcut out of such problems. Although the NRK program focus a few days ago just showed a tab of the diversity of eating disorders, the program showed the deep seriousness of eating disorders. Now, when we ask for treatment capacity to be increased, it fits well with the Government’s strategy for eating disorders, which was presented in 2000. The county councils are asked to explain plans to strengthen the supply of people with mental disorders. This is now linked to the basis for the payment of earmarked psychiatry resources to county councils. Local authorities are also asked to give priority to measures to combat eating disorders. In addition, it is a requirement that health regional plans include highly specialised services for people with eating disorders. It is also positive that the Health Authority receives approx. Three million. kr for various model tests to strengthen the supply to people with eating disorders, inter alia. the action ‘Body and self-esteem’, a competence development programme for health professionals. A programme to increase the knowledge of teachers in secondary and secondary education is also very positive. The Health Authority will also receive 1 million. 2001 for projects to test the quality and effectiveness of new treatment methods. In addition, funds are used for the follow-up to the strategy plan in the specialist healthcare service. Health surveillance is now carrying out work with a supervisor for the treatment of severe eating disorders, where treatment methods are discussed. It is also gratifying that in 2001 it is planned to establish five regional contacts to follow up the guide’s proposal and ensure that it is put to work. I would also like to mention a planned 2001 experience conference on the prevention of eating disorders, where both the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs are responsible. This will help to provide a basis for action at municipal level, in particular on the prevention side. All of this gives hope of increased capacity, improved quality and increased competence. We need that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e847	Too many young people, and especially young people, are affected by eating disorders. It can lead to serious, life-threatening conditions, such as we got a frightening picture in the NRK Focus program on Tuesday, which took two highly anorexic young women by heart. But fortunately, there is good reason to believe that most people either themselves or through family, friends and auxiliaries get out of a period of eating disorders without too much damage and psychological but. Many wonder how seemingly successful, healthy young people can be affected by and end up with major eating disorders. Unfortunately, much of the explanation in today’s excessive body fixation is well – as is the case with the rapporteur and the setting. Not only the advertising presentation of the thin, even almost radmare as the ideal of beauty, but also the sports and training centres have to take their share of responsibility. But we all do have a responsibility to put behind us the one-sided body fixation and the thin and radmare as the ideal of beauty. For it is indeed, I think, very much wisdom in the old Roman word for what we should strive for: «mens sana in corpore sano», it is said, «a healthy soul in a healthy body». Because it's the healthy soul, that is, our thoughts, our feelings, that characterizes us as human beings first and foremost. The human being we are is primarily influenced by our attitudes, by our capacity for responsibility and care for each other. So it's the inner, not the outer – how we look, what color of skin we have – that should and should make us more or less attractive. There might be reason to remember in days like these – that it's the inside, not the outside that we should give the most attention to. I think it's a paradox that while we in our society unfortunately see that more and more people are plagued with different degrees of eating disorders, we also see a frightening tendency that the number of obese, i.e. medically obese, gets a huge increase, even among young people, all the way down to childhood. For both extremes, it is a matter of doing things, and learning to appreciate not only a healthy diet, but also a sensible exercise – no exaggerations at all. That's what we should avoid, whether it's life-style or politics, if I'm allowed to mention it. It's the golden middle path that should be the clue to most of what we're doing. But back to the vote and the proposal. As the author of the proposal, I am pleased that a unanimous committee has delivered a position which, in general, I feel, also covers what we have asked for in the proposal. Today, there is not only a lack of treatment provision in our country, but also a lack of competence. In addition, young people with eating disorders may not be helped by one method or by one approach. They're as different as most people, although they have a common problem, and they need to get help with different methods and from different environments. It is therefore important that we jointly also use funds to evaluate the different settings and treatment methods. It also gave an example to the thought-provoking NRC programme, namely that the public health perceptions of what is a good approach to helping young people out of serious eating disorders are different. Institute Hoegen, as we have mentioned in our proposal, operates by an untraditional method of which there are many and strong views. I believe it is important that this offer also be evaluated in a good and reassuring way, and I therefore hope that the department, in cooperation with the institute, will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e864	On Tuesday a television show was shown about eating refusal. Sarah and Marianne stood up and gave anorexia a face. It was well up for more young people and more adults than me that this is no longer a disease that can sweep away by saying, 'Oh, this slender hysteria!' For Sarah and Marianne, it was brutally enough a matter of life and death. Building up new comprehensive treatment options for severely ill patients with eating disorders must be based on documented efficacy and quality assurance methods. When establishing an offer to extend beyond outpatient consultations, it is not enough to demonstrate a certain level of competence in eating disorders. It is also necessary to have competence in what are known as personality disorders, self-harm, psychosis, etc., as well as a well-functioning somatic offer. Patients with eating disorders are usually ambivalent to treatment; they are insecure; they may have been pressured by others to seek help. Therefore, the primary treatment objective will be to create an alliance with the patient and the patient’s family, through a listening attitude to the patient’s and family’s experience of themselves and the disease. The treatment of children and young people requires cooperation between treatment and family, cross-professional cooperation between professionals, healthcare lines and health services, as well as cooperation between specialist health services and primary health services. The Government’s strategy plan against eating disorders in 2000 assumes that measures to improve the provision of services in the event of eating disorders at municipal, county and regional level will be specificised in plans for mental health protection in the context of the Roadmap for mental health. The offer is recommended with specialised teams linked to a bed department and outpatient clinic, as well as ensuring that all outpatient clinics in paediatric and juvenile psychiatry and adult psychiatry have skilled staff in the field. It is estimated that 10 pst. of patients with anorexia nervosa can be completed in primary health care and 50 pst. in outpatient clinics, while 40 pst. require hospital or highly specialised treatment. For bulimia, the corresponding numbers are 20, 70 and 10 pst. It is therefore essential to be able to ensure and empower health professionals at a lower level of treatment from more specialised units to ensure the patient, family and caregiver in the event of a deterioration in their condition. In Ullevål Hospital, as it appeared in the Focus Programme, there is a specialised department that can provide guidance and help to all those who are working on eating disorders – and then I am talking about the cases that have come so far that there is a question of saving lives. It is important that one has specialised professionals who may have extensive contact with other professional bodies, partly through direct contact, and partly through training visits in the department. This is a disease that society must take seriously. This is a disease that takes young people's lives. We can't accept that. We don't have to let this become an area that opens up and is left to someone who has some bearing or some competence. This is a disease that requires professional competence at a high level, and it must be a responsibility for public health. The introduction to this TV programme, to which many people have referred, was that the specialised department at Ullevål is about to close down. I hope this is not the case. I hope that the whole country can gain experience and take advantage of the professional competence of this department at Ullevål, and that this is transformed into a centre of expertise for the whole country. It's all about saving lives, mostly young people's lives. Of course, it is not possible to have an expert group in all municipalities and counties, and that is why it is important to have an expert team to provide advice and guidance on the most difficult cases. It is possible to have many thoughts in your head at once, and I agree with the committee, which writes in a note so correctly that prevention is necessary. The government has also done a lot in this area, and I commend it for that. In the end, when we talk about those who are hardest hit, we need skilled professionals, psychiatrists, psychologists, doctors, socionomists and a lot of humanity, it's actually so that they have to be quality assured. Because, as Sarah said, the disease is really in the head.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e902	The initiative of the proposers to address the offer for people with eating disorders is price-effective, and the proposals that are being promoted do not seem to me to be difficult to deal with. There are several roads leading to Rome, and looking at alternative solutions can be good. It is also good to get a proper evaluation, a professional evaluation, of that content. Where I think the proposers go a little wild, is when you spend so much time at the Institute Hoegen. It's like many conditions that are difficult to deal with, that you get on the track other people who have their alternatives. What's a little eye-catching here is that it's completely disconnected from professional responsibility and – let's say – expertise and very experimental in the form and so untraditional that it's all side by side with the usual health care system. Now I didn't see the program Focus, but I've got a description of it from several people who have seen it, and I understand that what makes it first and foremost visible is how difficult it is for the worst people with eating disorders to get a treatment that can help. And it appeals to professional humility. What you should not forget is that most of the kinds of conditions we are talking about here appear first either in general practice or in professionals in the municipalities. What is then important is to achieve a professional interaction between the different occupational groups. In some cases, there will be health sisters being alerted, perhaps by relatives or other means, sometimes there may be midwives, and not so rarely can it be the general practitioner. The main thing when you discover it — there may also be school doctors or health professionals in the school situation — and when you see that someone needs help, is to get a team game between the different disciplines that help you to get out better. And I think what's described here in relation to what's completely on the side of traditional health care can do more harm than good. So when SV has supported the Committee's comments, it is because I have seen that the Committee does not at all address that issue, but instead calls for both a general strengthening of the treatment of people with eating disorders, emphasising the professional aspect and also the prevention aspect. Without taking this into account in the form of a note, I have noticed at least that there have been significant objections from the interest group for women with eating disorders, and that the State Health Authority has also had significant professional objections to the ‘offer’ represented by the Institute Hougen, precisely because it has nothing to do with the healthcare system. But again, the main thing is to secure resources for the treatment of people with eating disorders. We also need a top competence at the hospitals. The offer made by Ullevål has been exciting and should be supported by further development so that it is possible to take care of what is being offered today. But it's also important that you have similar offers in other parts of the country, so that it's not so centralized that people have to travel very far to get treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e915	The case rapporteur gave a clear presentation of the case, which I agree to. I also agree, in all material terms, with the representative of Mr Ballo. Treatment of eating disorders is difficult. Those of us who have some practical experience with that know that. I think there are more and more people who realize that two things are needed first and foremost: interdisciplinary and long-term. It was a good example of how things can work out in the Ullevenål Hospital television program. I believe – and believe to know – that the treatment system follows similar guidelines elsewhere in the country, so that, fortunately, this is generally accepted principles. Then, as politicians, we just see our responsibility in giving resources to this, because there's no doubt that it's important to bet on strengthening capacity. As far as the Institute Hougen is concerned, I stress that the professional assessments from the State Health Authority are clearly negative. I myself have been assigned a folder that should contain documentation of the excellent effect of this Institute. It was with respect to report no documentation at all, but pure weekly stories. In addition to the clear professional assessment here, the clear negative signals and strong warnings come from the interest group for women with eating disorders. So the trade unions and user organisations are in agreement here. In my opinion, the Ministry has gone far by providing project support. That might be right. However, the next evaluation must require evidence of efficacy. If not, we are approaching dangerous experiments with sick people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e924	A unanimous recommendation from the Committee makes it perhaps unnecessary to say so much in this matter, but I think it has such a serious character, and there have been moments after the Committee has concluded this matter, that there may be reason to comment on it. It is clear that some of the trends we have in our culture today make body fixation both in terms of fashion and advertising, in relation to training centres and in relation to the sports environment, a danger to some of those who take this most seriously in an extreme direction. The representative, Høegh, said that one may have eating disorders that are both strongly overweight and severely underweight. That's right. Too much or too little has no taste, it's called in a saying. It's clear that what's happening is very serious, especially with some young people. That is why I think there is reason to stress what is said here about prevention, and that early attention is given to trends here. There are things that primary health services and municipalities have to do. This is why it is important that we develop competences for municipalities so that they can assist the apparatus that can catch the signals early and be of help there, primarily in order to prevent them. Then it's important in relation to the strategy plan that was presented last spring, that one has expertise in this in the specialist health service, builds up special teams that are connected to bed rooms and outpatient clinics, and that one gets this out. But at the same time, I fully agree with the representative that we must keep the specialist division – as I would like to call it – at Ullevål. I agree that we cannot centralise this competence too strongly, but it is also important that one has a central point competence, so that one can provide advice and guidance beyond to county councils and perhaps down to primary health services. I would like the Minister of Health to take note of what has been said about this department on Ullevål, and that we have to be able to maintain it. It's also important, as many people have said, that there is an apparatus around this that represents interdisciplinary, holistic and long-term. However, a unanimous committee has said that it is necessary and desirable that the treatment effect of available treatment methods be documented, so we have to endure it. I think it is important that the Minister of Health, who has signaled that such a treatment effect should be demonstrated, be supported, but that we get a good evaluation of this, and that the concerns of the Health Authority, which have already arisen, can be tested against what this study will show.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e935	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1749]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e948	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e968	During the debate, Mr Alvheim put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that up to 5000 places are admitted to hospital/housing in addition to the Government’s proposal in St.prp. [[2000-2001]] No Add Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government to ensure that the coverage rate for hospitalisation sites is at least 25 per cent. 100 persons over 80 years of age.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e1015	During the debate, John I. Alvheim made a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e1051	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e1058	As it appears that many have voted incorrectly, the President will take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-01.ana.ud636e1087	There is no record.
