ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e102	I'm not going to make the debate long on this issue, it's essentially a group committee behind the comments. I just want to say the word to emphasize that when the Central Party signaled in the National Transport Plan that we would support a proposal to form a joint railway and aviation accident commission, we obviously support no Ot.prp. No 73, which proposes to extend the mandate of the Civil Aviation Committee to cover the investigation of accidents and incidents in the railway sector. The center part does not object to the adaptations that are now being made, but I would like to stress that in the center part, we see this as the first step on the road to get a collective accident commission that will take care of all four different transport sectors. Even if there are not two similar accidents, whether within the same transport sector or in different transport sectors, experience gained by a permanent accident commission will be valuable and useful in the course of major accidents. So I'm just going to take the word now to stress that I hope that the work on moving forward on the next step, to a common accident commission, will go on, and that the experience of having an accident commission for two of the transport branches will be taken into account in the work to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e109	I have to say I'm very pleased that the Center Party here is doing the whole revolution. This is, of course, a proposal promoted by the Progress Party as a document No. Eight proposals, that the four transport sectors should be grouped together in a common accident commission, and we would do it by pattern and goal from the United States. We thought it would be the cheapest, the best and the safest to have all the transport areas combined in one commission. So I just have to say welcome after to the Center Party, there are some others who have come after earlier. But I think it's remarkable that you should take this step by step, instead of going out and doing it in a simple, straightforward way and make this Commission once and for all, and not run like that and put one and one branch in and create a lot of bureaucracy and have a lot of plans up and down here. But at least it's a step on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e116	Let me first say that I am pleased that we are here in agreement with the proposals that have been made in this proposition. With regard to the issue of extending the Civil Aviation Liability Commission, we are very concerned that this can be done in such a way that the Civil Aviation Disaster Commission can continue to have the legitimacy and position it has and that the competence of the Commission can be continued and developed to cover the railway area. On the issue of a Commission for the whole transport sector, the Government is working on this issue. It is also apparent from the proposition. And the government aims to get back to Stortinget with this in an appropriate way when the assessments and investigations are completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e123	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 778]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e137	The proposal refers to the fact that the proposal for a new professional transport law will be somewhat delayed, for example: with a background in the consultation round. In view of this delay, the Ministry has therefore chosen to propose a specific proposal for amendments to the Transport Act. Proposals are being made to differentiate the ‘drive’ operation slightly in order to facilitate the detection of illegal transport without permission of persons and goods transport. The changes in the law on transport that we are likely to adopt today will be incorporated into the draft law on professional transport, which will be submitted to the Stortinget later. Recent developments have shown that the volume of illegal transport has increased, and the lack of control and follow-up of the offences may have contributed to the increase. In relation to Section 5, the Committee has noted that there is a greater uncertainty about the extent of illegal freight transport and that the current legal wording makes it difficult to detect illegal transport by means of control. The entire Committee shares the objective of facilitating control and follow-up, and endorses the proposal for legislative change. In the case of § 7, such as include illegal passenger transport by pirate taxi, it is not least this case that we have received a lot of feedback from people most and also from the industry itself, of course. We are aware that the volume of illegal passenger transport by pirate taxi is likely to have increased considerably, and that the lack of control and follow-up can be a contributing cause of the increase. The Committee therefore fully agrees that it is important that the possibilities for monitoring and follow-up be improved. The Committee has a unanimous recommendation on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e156	It is easy to ignore in silence a case of ‘changes in law’, etc., especially when a unanimous committee has joined the Ministry’s proposal. And ‘difference of driving behaviour’ in the transport sector, hardly many people see anything of it. When I still spend some time now, it is to emphasize what this matter is really about. We humans, as we know, have quite short memory, so I allow myself to remember that for a while we could record that the amount of illegal transport by pirate taxi led to some bad episodes. When this happened, there was no way what had to be done, and action from many teams was requested. Now let's do something. This government has taken up what was demanded both from the police, and not least from the Norwegian Taxi Federation, which is, of course, uncertain about the burden this is on the reputation of the taxi industry. That is why I also assume that the police are now taking advantage of the opportunity they have, and are cutting down on the piracy business. At the same time, there is a change for commercial goods transport by lorry, where compliance with permit conditions is also easier to verify. In short, this is a long-lasting change on the part of the truck industry and it contributes to more tidy conditions in this area when it is adopted today. I am therefore pleased with the decisions that are now being taken, and I am sure that it will contribute to more decent conditions in the transport sector for both passenger and goods transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e169	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 780]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e183	This case is kind of a big case, but it's small anyway, because there's basically consensus in the committee about everything that's standing here. There's something new in many ways, because there's probably been a pretty big fight in this room about the telecommunications law in the past. We have used words like ‘active competition’ in the past. I feel that what is happening right now is an adjustment of the telecommunications law to that, to make sure that there is an active competition in this industry that is one of the strongest we have, and that is also one of the greatest economic value creators we can see in our time. Therefore, the Ot.prp itself is. No 87 almost clarifying concepts and definitions in order to bring the law more into line with developments in international telecommunications terminology. There is broad agreement throughout the Committee on the amendments to be adopted. However, there are two areas where there is a substantive discussion – but there is agreement. It is auctioned for the granting of tele licences. It has not been used in Norwegian telecommunications policy until now. So now we're going to have a warrant in the regulation so that we can apply the auction. However, the Committee has also said that the future use of the auction must be presented to the Stortinget if it is to be applied in substantial cases. The second area is the right to drive, which has been an opportunity that Telenor has now had. With the number of companies and with the liberalisation now seen in the industry, it is obvious that you cannot have 30 to 40 people standing in your garden and demanding to dig. The only reasonable solution is that chosen by the Ministry, namely that the right to drive is abolished, that no one has it, and that each person must apply on a case-by-case basis. I think that is the only feasible solution to this. The Committee also agrees that it is the most practical way to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e196	Now, when the Storting has got the Telex Act revised, it's because once again we've experienced that developments in the telecommunications sector are going very fast. Although the law came into force as late as 1996, it has already been amended several times. In recent years, we have had a development and a dynamic in the telecommunications and ICT sector that I doubt we will find in any other sector. The changes within Telenor, and not least the Government's eNorway plan, are other important examples of the fact that government and growth really want to meet these challenges offensively. The very changes in the laws currently under consideration are not the most controversial in political terms. As mentioned by the case-rapporteur, a unanimous committee supports all the Government's amendments. With the exception of a slightly different approach to the auctioning principle for tele licences, all comments are also unanimous. I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the Committee, to thank the rapporteur for a good work and a good and orderly process during the examination of the matter. I'm not going to go into all the changes in the law, but I'm going to focus on what we see as the most important changes, namely the law enforcement of the auctioning principle for the granting of tele licences, and the suspension of the so-called special right of transmission Telenor until now has had. With regard to the auction price index, the disagreement within the Committee is not very large, although it is a majority and a minority. The Committee agrees that the principle should be legalised. The Committee also agrees that the use of auction should, as a general rule, be submitted to the Stortinget. And not least, the Committee agrees that the developments we have seen in some European countries where auctioning has been used as the main principle of licensing for new networks, mainly the so-called UMTS licences, have been unlucky. There are several examples of large-scale debt problems faced by licensee operators and the same possibilities of expansion, coverage and speed as a tendering process would have been ensured. The reason why a unanimous committee nevertheless opens the way for a law-enforcement of this principle is that licensing is not only valid for new networks. In the course of the 2001 state budget, a broad majority of the Stortinget intervened in order to allow for the allocation of available frequencies in so-called second generation mobile networks – the 900 and 1800 frequency bands – during the course of 2001 by auction. The existing mobile operators of this network are subject in their concessions to significant coverage obligations and have a coverage of about 94 pst. by the population. In such cases, we see that it will not be an easy task to make reasonable demands in the case of tenders, and auctioning must then be possible. Of course, the choice of auctioning as an allocation principle does not prevent us from continuing to make demands on the competence, the seriousness and the economy of the applicants. Let me briefly comment on the unanimous agreement of the Committee on the Government's proposal to abolish the special access of covered providers today to be able to take decisions on expropriation, the so-called right of presentation. To put it simply, this is a right that has existed primarily for Telenor, and it has been justified by the special requirements that the company has under the concession for universal service. It has been opposed to this right that it has acted in a way that distorts competition, and it is likely that it has not been involved in promoting a level playing field. As a result of technological developments, it is increasingly difficult to distinguish between universal infrastructure and services that go beyond it. In addition, when we are informed that this right has been used only in a few cases, if any, since the law came into force, this suggests that the provision should be repealed. So someone has demanded that, in order to achieve a level playing field, instead of abolishing this right, we should extend it to all market players. I am afraid that this will give a completely unsustainable situation. Today we have about 40 registered telecommunications companies, and even if we make demands for coverage and size, such a proposal could still lead to a significant number of operators at any time with the law in hand being able to come and dig up your garden, to put it a little at the head. I don't think that's very desirable. Therefore, a unanimous committee has chosen to support the Government that the first paragraph of Section 10-2 should be deleted. However, I would like to stress that we have a responsibility to ensure the transmission of telecommunications networks across the country. I therefore assume that the department is aware of this responsibility in the event of any processing of the expropriation permit under the second paragraph of Section 10-2 and helps to ensure that the suspension of this right of transmission does not lead to significant delays or barriers to socially important network deployments. Finally, I would like to stress that the changes that we are adopting today contribute, as the rapporteur also pointed out, to a law and a framework for state telecommunications management that brings us more into line with the situation in the telecommunications market and technological developments. It will not surprise me so much if in a few years' time we have to deal with changes to this law, not because we are doing something wrong and we are adopting something wrong today, but because developments in this sector mean that we still have to renew the telecommunications policy in order to meet new challenges. And I want to stress that in all ways we still have to make sure to be in front of this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e222	In particular, the strong market and technological developments in the telecommunications sector are the basis for the proposed changes and additions to the telecommunications law presented to the Stortinget at the beginning of May of this year. I am pleased that the Committee's position, which Mr Odelstinget is discussing today, shows that there is unanimous support in the committee for almost all the amendments contained in the proposal. I see it as also reflecting that there is a broad consensus on telecommunications policy, and believe that precisely this is essential for growth and development in the sector. Only at one point do I record that it's this one's in the committee, and I'm going to be allowed to come back a little bit. The current telecommunications law entered into force in 1996 and was subsequently amended in 1998 and 1999 in connection with the deregulation of the telecommunications sector. The rapid development of the telecommunications sector following the decision of the Storting to abolish remaining exclusive rights from 1 January 1998 makes it desirable to further align the provisions of the Act with a situation of increasing actors and an increased provision of services. Otherwise, the proposal proposes some changes relating to frequency planning and frequency usage permits. The introduction of new rules on radio and telecommunications terminal equipment gives rise to some changes to the provisions of the Telecommunication Act in this area. The legislative proposals also reflect the extended activities of the EMC Postal and Telecommunications Authority, Electromagnetic Compatibility and, in the case of the activities of the Radio Noise Control, which were previously transferred by Telenor. I find particular reason to point out that the proposal proposes to amend the rules on right of transmission in the Telex Act. This is what we are doing to ensure a greater level of equal treatment between actors in this area. I am particularly pleased that the Committee unanimously agrees with the proposal to abolish the special right that some actors have had to decide for themselves to intervene in property. Runways — ducts, tunnels and pipes for cables, masts and platforms for radio antennas, etc. – constitutes a major cost component of the construction of new telecommunications infrastructure. There will be resource-saving and economies of scale if new infrastructure providers are more able to ensure access to existing capacities for deployment and better coordination in the event of new construction activities than at present. However, this raises many problems. According to the Government’s action plan on broadband communications, the assumptions for sharing existing and new transmission routes for telecommunications networks are to be further explored. As stated in the proposal, the Ministry of Transport has set up a wide-ranging working group with representatives of the public authorities concerned and market actors for this purpose. The main issue addressed by the Working Group is legal and practical preconditions for a joint exercise. I will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way when the working group has completed its work later this year. The Ministry of Transport is now preparing the work to allocate additional frequencies for use for second-generation mobile systems. In the context of the treatment of the 2001 State Budget, the Stortingen decided that the allocation should be made through the use of auctioning. This has been taken into account in the ministry's work on the allocation, and the need for predictable framework conditions for actors indicates that one sticks to what the Storting has decided on the method of allocation. I am therefore pleased that a large majority of the Committee still see the use of auction as an appropriate allocation form in relation to the authorisations it is now appropriate to grant for the use of radio frequencies. The Ministry of Transport proposes to identify an auction form adapted to the demand and willingness to pay on the market for the availability of frequency resources. In the work, the Ministry will also look into the experience of other countries that have conducted similar frequency auctions. But this is an industry of great change, showing not least experience from other countries. I would like to point out the uncertainty that also lies in the use of auctioning principles, but, as mentioned above, we will continue this work with a view to an auction during the autumn of 2001. I have also noted the Committee's premise in relation to the future use of auctioning as an allocation method, and will return to the Storting in an appropriate manner when it might be relevant in relation to the granting of permits for the use of frequencies to future major societal systems. But to be quite honest, it's not the minority that I'm most surprised about here, but the Progress Party, which is in the majority position. As most people will remember, last April this party was in a unanimous committee in favour of granting UMTS licences in accordance with the principle of tendering. One month later, the party reversed the revision of the national budget and wanted to have an auction. The party even budgeted billions of revenue from such an auction in its budget line for the revised national budget 2000. Today, we see that the party has turned around again, and is part of the majority that determines that our choice of tendering principle when granting UMTS licences was a correct assessment. Either it is that the party has now changed its view on this issue for the second time in one year, or the view of the Progress Party must depend on whether the matter is dealt with in the Committee on Transport or whether it is dealt with in the Committee on Finance. Predictability is not present under any circumstances. Finally, as also mentioned in the proposal, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Transport carried out an early consultation in the market in autumn 2000 and among selected public authorities of eight EU regulatory proposals, the 1999 Review Package, which is intended to enter into force in the Community on 1 January 2002. The Ministry is now working on the follow-up to this consultation and will also follow the process in the EU as closely as possible. As a result of the EEA Agreement, the outcome of the EU legislative review will also have an impact on Norwegian legislation. The legislative proposals now presented do not address any legislative changes that may be necessary as a result of the 1999 EU Review. I will come back to this in a presentation to Stortinget when one sees the outcome of the examination of the regulatory proposals in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e243	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 780]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e257	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 785]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e271	In the process of transforming the former management companies Postverket and NSB into their own legal entities, special laws were adopted based on the general share law. At the same time, it was decided to continue the staffing arrangements under the Civil Service Act and the Civil Service Dispute Act. These provisions concern requirements for addition procedures and notice periods, as well as the right to take up a new job in the country and waiting pay rights. They strike, among other things: also stating that the new companies are part of the State tariff area. BA companies are currently going through large conversion processes in order to be able to compete in markets that impose high standards of flexibility and efficiency. Therefore, it is now proposed to repeal the five paragraphs dealing with these provisions. The proposal has been put to the consultation and a clear majority of the hearing bodies have been positive. I also think it is right to mention that a large majority of the employees of companies have wanted these changes, precisely to give companies a chance to have the same framework conditions as their competitors. The Committee is unanimous on all points with one exception, and in the case of § 63, which deals with preferential and waiting pay. We know that today the companies are undergoing a formidable conversion and de-employment. Only in Posten Norge BA will more than 5,000 annual works disappear over the next four years. This has required and will require a lot of both management and employees of the companies. One of the reasons why the switchover can be carried out in as little pain as possible is precisely the good cooperation between the employer and the employee. The majority want Section 63, which deals with preferential and waiting pay, to be repealed with effect only from 1 January 2005. It has been important for the majority to contribute to the best possible operation of the large-scale conversion work in progress in the companies. Many thousands of jobs are being lost, and it is therefore important that we give the workers of these companies the security of maintaining the right of priority and waiting pay through the transition period up to 2005. That a minority, consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party, has signaled that they want to lift this paragraph today, they themselves have to stand for it. But I am surprised that these parties do not see the value of good and dynamic cooperation between employees and employers. It should also be a cross-reference that almost all the hearing bodies have joined the Ministry’s proposal for the abolition of preferential and waiting pay only in 2005. The Committee believes that it is important to give Posten Norge BA and NSB BA the best possible conditions so that they are able to compete in an ever-changing market and to find flexible solutions for companies in the future. I recommend this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e290	I will be allowed, on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party, to present the proposal included in the vote on page 3. In addition, I would like to say that NSB BA and Posten BA have special framework conditions. We think they shouldn't have it. We believe that they should be transformed into a limited liability company and that they should have the same conditions as others. The Right Party and the Advance Party also point out that there is no reason today to have these special rules that they should have a waiting salary – which is said to be 5000 who will become unemployed – and that applies to both the NSB and the Post Office. We believe that the possibility of getting work today is so great that we do not want to go in to keep Section 63, but we believe that that paragraph should be deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e297	Thore Axle Nistad has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 785]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e313	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 786]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e327	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each of the independent representatives 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e336	In the position currently being debated, the Economic and Social Committee endorses the Ministry's proposal for a new food labelling system. The Ministry shall be empowered to adopt the regulations necessary for the establishment of the marking system in order to monitor and punish those who do not comply with the rules and to charge fees for the financing of the system. There is broad consensus in the Committee, and it has also been in the consultation round. And likewise, there is agreement on the value creation programme for food production, which is likely to produce a variety of niche products that may be relevant to this labelling scheme, based on the geographical origin, tradition and peculiarity of the product. The increased diversity that is now being developed with significant public incentives is well in line with international food trends. An increasing number of consumers will demand food from their own food culture and be willing to pay extra for it, while at the same time wanting to mix their own food culture with what is being tried from other countries. At the same time, consumers are concerned with product identity and product information — and above all the requirement that food is safe. The labelling scheme shall meet those requirements and consumer expectations, while opening up larger markets for niche products with a defined origin, such as: «Lofotlam» means products of special character which can be well defined, e.g. eggs from free-range chickens and mountain-slaughtered domestic animals or products with a traditional preparation method, where old cheese from Sogn or Røros sour may be examples. The driving force for those applying for a brand protection on a product is the possibility of getting a higher price per. unit and to sell a larger quantity. Only when the label is well incorporated and the shops clear up space in the shelves because the customers ask, will the results come. Some hearing bodies have warned that the small niche products will and should find other forms of presentation. I, the undersigned, belong to those who believe that a greater economic effort is required than the 3 to 4 million. kr per. years indicated by the Council of State by letter to the Committee. I would therefore ask that the financial effort be assessed on an ongoing basis. At the same time, I think there must be some pressure on the food chains, so that they clear up space for these products before customers come and masse. The proposition says that there are a small number of products labelled according to such a scheme in our nearest neighbouring country, only four in Sweden and three in Denmark. France has 120 products and Italy has 100. At the same time, the proposition tells us that some of the products have a large international market, and thus put a place on the world map. The Committee has not had time this spring to meet many of the small actors in the process. I would like to say that the new nutrition committee will be as concerned with the new tiny dairies that are now being started with exciting new oysters, as this committee has been with the old-fashioned neo-meieries that copy Tine products. I spoke the other day with a new dairy farm, which is one of 218 members in Norwegian Farm Food. That farm is now selling to Berlin and to a retail chain in Finland, and to Mega on Steinkjer. In the course of six to seven years, 300 gel glasses have become 30,000. This crowd is now creating its own wholesale unit, and everyone is on the Internet. They sell to each other and open market channels. Another actor from Røros, ‘Food from the Mountain Region’, has pointed to the danger that diversity may be reduced if the mode of production needs to be standardised in order to meet hygiene requirements that restrict traditional farming practices. I hope we now agree to ensure the hygienic quality of the finished product without having to prohibit production. We have all seen that other countries, with the same legislation as us, allow for liberal anomalies when years of experience show that things are going well. In the same way that we allow the drying of fish on the heel, wooden shelves under the parmesan stone and the Parma rail are allowed. At this point there seems to be disagreement within the Committee. I am surprised that the Workers' Party, Right and Advance Party do not agree that typical traditional products such as seat cheese and seat butter should be released on the market when all hygienic requirements for the product are in order. Similarly, there is no need to work to restore the mountain slaughter of tamrein, when mountain slaughter of wild reindeer can be carried out by amateurs and sold to restaurants. This is about maintaining quality. The trailer transport of rein to the slaughterhouse does not take account of any of these conditions in my opinion. Let me also add that I have the word of the ESA Chief Knut Almestad that the derogation provided for in the EU directives also applies to Norway, to agricultural products as well as to fisheries recipients. He claims that it is not the EU requirements that close small Norwegian fishing facilities, but our own interpretation of them. The centre party hopes that the Stortinget can gradually allow the Food Authority to be involved with those who create diversity and breathe life into food traditions. I will be promoting the proposal in the vote, which I will later ask for time to justify.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e364	Morten Lund has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e367	The issue we are dealing with today is a natural follow-up by the authorities to the trends that prevail among consumers in Norway and in Europe. Consumers today demand greater diversity than before, and more and more people are willing to pay extra for quality. It is also a natural follow-up to the Food Production Value Creation Programme, which has been endorsed by the Storting. The labelling scheme will be an integral part of this programme. As is known, the value creation programme shall facilitate primary producers and food businesses developing high-quality specialised foods for sale in high-payability markets. Regional products and services shall be developed to make a sustainable and significant contribution to regional value creation. This will strengthen the role of primary industries as producers of collective goods such as living communities, beautiful cultural landscapes, local employment, food culture, etc. Consumer choice and freedom of choice in the field of food are another main pillars. The aim is to increase the freedom of consumers to choose within a wider range of products and to strengthen consumers’ right to information. It is proposed to design a national regulatory framework based on EU legislation. This makes sense, among other things, in view of the future export of Norwegian specialities. It is also worth noting that consumer demand for quality products has increased by the EU labelling system requiring product quality. In this context, it has been important for the majority of the Committee to stress the importance of not adding the list of authorisations lower than in EU countries. This does not mean that Norway should not produce a much larger range of quality products than the number authorised within the EU per year. today. The majority point out that the Norwegian system must aim to be at the heart of the development of Norwegian quality products and to provide opportunities for those producers who are willing to develop and market specialised products with a local specificity. The current system will apply to products falling within the scope of the Agricultural Quality Act, i.e.: products obtained from livestock or plant production and wild growing crops. As a result, fishery products will fall outside the scheme. However, I have noticed that the department will consider an extension of the home to include other food and other products at a later stage. In my opinion, it would be very positive to pick up by such an extension. According to the Ministry, a government scheme would be appropriate to ensure fair presentation and to ensure strict requirements for those manufacturers who wish to make use of the scheme. I fully agree with that. In my view, this is a prerequisite for the scheme to have the necessary integrity and trust. The persons responsible for the authorisation of products to be labelled must be independent and not have financial interests in the products. In this context, too, the question of funding is naturally a topic. In my view, the Ministry has proposed a balanced solution. There can be nothing to say that users are involved in paying for a scheme aimed at increasing value creation. At the same time, it is clear that excessive fees could be hampered, especially for new businesses and businesses that will try to restore local products that have disappeared in recent decades’ rationalisation of primary production and food industries. It is therefore reassuring that the Ministry will take this into account in the final design and operation of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e386	I would first like to address some of the wording and opinions of the rapporteur in the field with regard to the interest of the new nutrition committee in this area, for example. local production and small dairies around the whole country. In fact, we in Norway have closed up an incredibly large number of dairies around under the dairy company law, and there are busy farmers and local forces who have been willing to push this forward, but where Tine Norske Meierierier has put his foot down. So here we've let opportunities go from us. And we should look a little beyond our own navel, and see what happens both inside and outside the EU when it comes to, for example. small scale dairies. In many places, local productions have specialities that they sell to the local population, to tourists and others. It's going perfectly well! There is a wide range of possibilities, and that is how we must try to address them here in Norway as well. The Norwegian food market has evolved in two main directions in recent years. One is characterised by a general requirement for cheaper food — it has been very concerned with it. The second main direction is the increasing demand for special products, and then at relatively high prices. Such special products may be both Norwegian traditional foods and imported specialities. Many might suggest that for specialty products based on tradition and specialty, we will see a growing market. It is therefore important that Norwegian producers seize the possibilities they themselves have to produce the special products and special sorting that the market needs. In examining the agricultural notification a year ago, attention was paid to measures that could make better use of market opportunities. Furthermore, profitability was expressed by the sale of agricultural products as a significant prerequisite for long-term food production. The notification was also concerned with increasing freedom for consumers to choose within a wide range of products. The marking system to which it is now added combines these two considerations. Whereas the products covered may improve the profitability of manufacturers, while at the same time giving consumers more choice with a quality assurance system in order to effectively comply with the production criteria; Experience from other countries suggests that the establishment of a new Norwegian labelling scheme for agricultural products based on geographical origin, tradition and specificity would be a desirable way to take action. Experience has shown that EU labelling schemes, requiring product quality requirements, have resulted in increased demand for quality products. And manufacturers have also achieved safety by providing protection for the authorised products. The Party welcomes the fact that the proposed label scheme is linked to the food production value creation programme. Since this programme is widely implemented, it is important that the proposed labelling scheme also takes this into account by providing opportunities both for small-scale producers and for the production of larger volumes of high-quality specialized foods. It is necessary to facilitate primary producers, but also others, for example: a number of food establishments shall be able to develop their specialities and reach a market with a high level of willingness to pay. There is a great need for a Norwegian labelling scheme for agricultural products. Although strict criteria for the protection of a name are laid down, such a labelling scheme is already met with considerable interest today. Therefore, the provisions laid down will be able to move in the same direction as the objectives of today's agricultural policy. The special products will be both an important complement to the economy of Norwegian farms and at the same time an important contribution to the development of Norwegian food production. Consumers also gain more knowledge and new habits. It is necessary to reflect on how the legislation is built up around food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e405	I note with satisfaction that the Economic and Social Committee has joined the Government's proposal to set up a new State labelling scheme for agricultural products based on geographical origin, traditions and peculiarity, and that the basis for the foundation is provided for by the law of 17 June 1932 on quality control of agricultural products, etc. The Norwegian food labelling scheme proposed by the Government will be an integral part of the Government’s food production value creation programme, which is a programme for innovation and diversity in the food sector. The Programme shall facilitate primary producers and food businesses developing food of special quality for sale in markets where added value can be derived from increased willingness to pay. These are elements of agricultural policy that have been relatively small in the post-war period, but are now being used to stimulate innovation, adaptability and competition. Experience from other countries shows that such labelling schemes can lead to increased consumer choice and better information on the origin and quality of the food. As far as the scope of the labelling scheme is concerned, the amendment of the legislation covers initially products obtained from livestock and plant production and wild growing crops. I note that the Business Committee points out that products of domestic fish are to be included in the scheme and will follow this up. The labelling scheme will be designed in the form of a general regulation containing a whole range of conditions and organisational provisions. Specific provisions will then be drawn up for each product being protected. The Government's proposal provides for strict criteria for the protection of a name. I note that the majority of the Economic and Social Committee agrees with this. I am also pleased with the Committee's agreement to the Government's model for financing the brand scheme. I also note with satisfaction that the majority of the Economic and Social Committee shares the Government's view on the importance of the new labelling scheme meeting the requirements of consumers and that it is assumed that the products comply with the requirements of the hygiene legislation. I want to add that this is about the rules that we are bound by under the EEA Agreement. It is true, as the Industry Committee points out, that detailed hygiene requirements for production are often perceived as a restriction for those wishing to start off with small scale production and as regards the restoration of safe products with local characteristics. Therefore, as the Economic and Social Committee also points out, there is a need for an individually adapted and risk-based exercise of supervision in the enforcement of this legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e425	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e428	It's to mutual joy, I think, that now more daisies are being created than it's being laid down. The representative Hedstrøm was interested in why they were laid down, and believes that it is the farmers who have done so. I believe that responsibility for it is shared – that politics has also been such that they were forced to do so. I asked for the word to say a little bit about the theme that the Senterpartiet addresses in a separate comment, namely the desire for a separate branding scheme that deals with the health of the food. We already have a lot of branding arrangements, and then we get a new one, and I'm convinced that we're also going to have a branding system that concerns the health of the food. It is important, when a warehouse for this purpose, that one adapts it so that there are not too many bodies to take care of, that one should be able to use the same body to take care of different arrangements. It may be confusing for consumers if there is a vortex of brands and different actors to check out and control this. But today’s interest in products and foodstuffs on which it says ‘health food’ is so great that, like other countries, we are going to have arrangements to make it possible for food to contain substances that are good for your health. The Committee was informed, during visits to the MATFORSK, that researchers know that certain foods contain substances that have such functions, that components of certain nutrients can prevent cancer and cardiovascular disease. The turnover of health food is increasing more than anything else. At the same time, we have a law on medicines that prohibits that it is stated in an advertisement or on a food that this is a product that is good for your health. I believe we should remove that ban and instead get a system of checking and documentation that what is claimed by the manufacturer is correct. Some of our neighbouring countries have received it. For the time being, the EU has not ordered this, but I think that we can start a process to do this without it coming as an order from the EU. The Centre Party therefore supports the following proposal: ‘The ruling asks the Government to investigate and propose a system allowing the use of health claims in the labelling and marketing of food.’ I know that the food industry is interested in and concerned about this. They're going to put in a lot of research to get on, to figure out more about this, and they know that they have to document their claims very well. I believe that this can be done without putting a negative stamp on unprocessed foods, that they should not become inferior. I am a little surprised that the government party is not involved in this, as I know that it is working on plans to initiate this in some government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e444	The representative Morten Lund has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 786]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e460	The proposal for amendments to the Law on Land Change has been promoted primarily in order to provide the right to land change clear grounds for implementing major trade change issues, as foreseen by the Stortinge. Example of such a case is Rødsmoen, Rena clay. In addition, the right to land change is granted the right to maintain border proceedings for restrictions of public law. Some changes to the law of nobility, to the law of neighbours, to the law of roads and to the law of special property rights are also included in Ot.prp. No Seventy-six. After the amendment of the law, the right to land change will increase its competence to keep contractual relationships even for replacement areas outside the land change area itself. This discretion can be maintained as part of the soil change issue. This happened when Rena clay was set up, and an evaluation of the Christie committee concluded that this matter was dealt with in a very successful way. Civilisation Lawyers and Lawyers' Laws ask questions in their hearing notes about the relationship between the ordinary judicial system and the right to change the land. As the right to change is further enhanced in matters which have traditionally been dealt with in the ordinary judiciary, the law finds it appropriate to raise this issue. To this end, the Government has appointed a sample to assess the future position and function of the right to change. This sample, the Løken sample, shall be set up by 1 June 2002. In our day, questions arise as to whether changes to the laws and regulations lead to simplifications. If that's saying that in this case, if it's not the big simplifications, then there are also elements of this. Firstly, if the two judges are both members of the Committee of Judge-Rapporteurs and members of the Co-Court of Justice, the right to vote shall be open to two joint judges. Secondly, if the parties agree to the decision, the right of land change may take a legal decision immediately. This means that one avoids unnecessary correspondence following the negotiations themselves and the decision in the right to land change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e473	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footage, see page 787]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e487	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each of the independent representatives 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e496	The size of the vessel has recently heard the Minister for Fisheries’ outlawing of the fishing industry and debated the same issue on 8 May. The debate at that time showed a great deal, and today Stortinget follows with a number of changes in the law on saltwater fishing and the law on the translation of raw fish. I would like to stress that the Committee agrees on this issue, which is a great strength when considering the level of noise associated with fish fraud in the media and in the last few months. Our fishing resources belong to the Norwegian people in common. Anyone who has the right to capture these resources is regulated by our fisheries legislation. When managing St.meld. No 51 for 1997-1998, on prospects for the development of the Norwegian fishing industry, the Stortinget stated that Norway should be the world's foremost in terms of debt, etc. fisheries management. Norway is a small country, but a great deal when it comes to fishing, including that we are one of the world's largest exporters of seafood. There is a clear connection between closing down the market work and the trust in the management regimes that we benefit from in Norway. Furthermore, it is crucial for the year-to-year allowance recommendations that the calculation models are filled in with reliable and complete data. Unregistered withdrawals make such work impossible, which is totally unacceptable. In addition, it reduces the number of nutritionists by enabling a crisis to occur sooner or later, with different fish stocks showing such a low level that dramatic cuts in quota recommendations may be required — and at worst, full stop in the fish in question. It is positive that a system is now in place whereby fishermen and the reception on land or vessels receiving the catch must proceed and sign a document containing relevant information — a landing seat — even when the fish is delivered in view of the fact that the translation is to take place at a different time from the time of landing. A sample can be a delivery to a freezer hotel. The whole point is that authorities need to have knowledge of the amount of fish actually taken up in order to be able to carry out a defensive management of our fish resources. There is reason to recall that the living marine resources are renewable, but not inexhaustible, and that housing and other activities therefore need to be carried out and regulated in both the short and long term. This stands and coincides with the grips associated with the harvesting of living resources in a long-term perspective. I think the ministry should consider introducing an own resource certificate for the person responsible for the fishing vessel. Today, there is a need for an extended field of competence to strengthen the grips associated with the exploitation of our marine resources. One way to do this is to require fishing professional competence as well as purely navigational competence. In order to strengthen control measures, there is a need for some major and minor changes in several laws before fishing legislation. A joint committee suggests that the fisheries legislation with which we end must have the necessary legitimacy and must be of a scale and at a level of detail which ensures both a viable resource management and is designed to allow fishermen to stay within the law of normal exercise of their functions. The same must apply to other professionals in the fishing industry, e.g. in fish-receipts. A set of responses must be used to bring fish fraud to life, and sanctions must be proportionate. Penalties must clearly reflect the fact that the cost of breaking the law is higher than the profit of such activity. Strict penalties must be applied where the breach of trust between the Community and the individual concession and privilege holders is of a particularly serious nature. In such a case, the penalty may also be the right to purchase fish, fish or other related activity for a shorter or longer period of time, or on a permanent basis. There is reason to remember that such reactions have been very few of them now. It is natural that fishing activities, whether found at sea or on land, must be subject to the same transparency as other activities, even where supporting documentation of the business is required. The same is true of criminal reactions. This is a natural development, as the fisheries sector is expected to develop rapidly in the years to come, but there will be no freedom of establishment, cf. Participant law and raw fish law. So the gleams of players should be clear, so that businessmen and society have a clear understanding of the contract between them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e522	I will join the case-speaker in his statement on behalf of the Committee. It is important that in such a case we have a co-consultant's committee. Norway has a lot of work to do and has a lot of vision about how we're going to feel internationally. Then we must have a trusty administration. Therefore, there might be reason to look at history, whether we have for too long accepted and listened to various rumors without having sufficiently searched for whether rumors had anything to do with them or not. When matters first exploded, I would like to express my appreciation for the way in which the Minister for Fisheries has handled the matter, and I commend the dialogue that has been conducted with the industry. I also think that the proposals that have come here today seem satisfactory, and that the response methods are good – but they have to be enforced. So I'm not going to take any more of the time of Storting in relation to this case, just recommend the setting and hope that in a few years' time we won't experience the same kind of experience, but that through the decision we're making today, we have managed the industry in a way that makes us trust again internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e533	There is every reason to give homage to the follow-up of the department in a matter that has received very great attention and focus. The so-called fish falsification had peaked its timeliness just around the turn of the year. On the right, the Secretary of State for Fisheries requested the presentation in Stortinget. We got it. It is only right to conclude that we are satisfied with the follow-up – and with the pace of follow-up – that has taken place on the part of the department. In this case, the Ministry of Fisheries may set an example to other departments in keeping pace on an important matter. The rapporteur has given a clear explanation of the Committee's opinion, and most of what she was into is, of course, what we end up with. In the follow-up to the regulations of the law, the Ministry must ensure that operators are made aware of the rules and measures taken in a transparent manner. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the follow-up to control measures should not be influenced by the unintentional creation of offences, and that there should not be rules that create unnecessary offenders and offences, but that there should be arrangements and rules, for example. in the case of the concept of ‘by-catch’, so that the control and attention of the small things does not steal the attention from what is serious, what is important. Therefore, the right-wing party agrees with the proposed measures proposed by the Committee today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e546	This legislative proposal on control measures in the fisheries sector is essentially an extension of control access to the reception, transport and placing on the market of fish and fishery products in areas – or to vessels – under Norwegian jurisdiction. Not only measures, but more stringent responses shall be put in place to stop the illegality. This is also a concrete follow-up in the context of the statement made by the Minister for Fisheries on 3 May this year on fishing jacks and related measures. We were informed about the measures taken and the measures to be implemented. The Committee's decision provides support for the Ministry's proposals. The statements made by fish buyer Odd Lorentzen in Dagbladet on 21 November last year about large-scale fish jack triggered strong reactions. The information that large trawlers were loaded directly on board trailers without being registered anywhere was speeded up by our authorities. A week later, the Ministry of Fisheries was out with a press release and announced increased control activities and stronger reactions by the authorities. The Minister of Fisheries had been found to be likely to commit fraud and illegalities to such an extent that they could not be accepted. The presentation of the Storting presented statistics from the Directorate of Fisheries showing that the number of reactions, withdrawals, warnings and reports at the end of the 1990s has increased by 3-6 pst. in relation to the mid-1990s. The Directorate estimates that the quota jack can be from 0 to 20 pst. of recorded catches, depending on the fisheries concerned. With a booked firsthand value of DKK 10 billion a year, this suggests that circumvention to such an extent is significant. This is the background for all policy environments to end up with the need for action. There is a recognition that the need for control is present and that it is desirable to increase control and carry out more stringent reactions by the authorities. Having said that, it is important to see the legislative proposals that are now being presented in the context of the current fisheries policy. Many authorities in the fishing industry are convinced that overcapacity in the fishing fleet is the main cause of the extensive fishing yoke. The Norwegian quotas could have been taken up by two thirds of the existing fleet. It is therefore important to address the problem at its root, namely to reduce overcapacity in fisheries. Fortunately, more and more people are realizing that there is a need for major changes in the management of the whole industry. In this respect, the market mechanism needs to be implemented more fully. A market will reveal the amount of space available in the industry if it is to provide a satisfactory return to both actors and society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e559	I just want to join briefly in the praise that the department has received in this matter. It is true that there has been a strong focus on fish jacks during the six months that have passed, and as has been said here, it exploded after the revelations that have taken place. But it is a well-known case that it has been going on for a long time. There has been a good follow-up to the presentation, and the measures currently available are good. There has also been a good process, with consultations and participation from the implicated industry. Now it is that the fishing industry is a well-regulated industry – we have a detailed regulatory framework. That's the way it has to be. We have overcapacity, as many have mentioned, and in the case of overcapacity and good prices, we are, of course, tempted to do things that should not be done. Regardless of this, it must be a clear objective to have as simple a regulatory approach as possible, but appropriate. I ask that the legislation be reviewed, bearing in mind that the legislation is not such that it is difficult to avoid becoming a criminal in some contexts. Simple legislation and appropriate legislation are important. There is also a need for strong control in this area. What I want to appeal to the Council of State is to exploit the systems and bodies that we already have today – I am thinking here of the sales laws, which have routines and devices and systems that enable the sales laws to be a good partner in this matter. It is important now to play on the infrastructure that already exists, and not necessarily to create completely unilateral public bodies alongside the systems that are already there. So my appeal is: look at the systems that are already in the sales laws today, and see if they can't be exploited in good cooperation with the public!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e568	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e571	What made me want to take the floor in this case was that there are several of the representatives who have pointed out the need to have a simpler regulation. I very much agree with that. It is very important that the legislation is both simple and comprehensible and accepted by the nutritionists. That is why we are running processes in the industry where we are as far as we can, involving the active organisations in the decision-making processes, and we are going to continue this. But I want to say that perhaps the most important thing we'll be working on in the future to bring this obscenity to life is attitudes. If we create an attitude in the industry that everyone has a responsibility not to say over the branch we're sitting on, we're creating a much, much better basis for effective control and for fisheries regulations to actually become what we're thinking. That's the biggest challenge. It lies on us as fishing authorities, but it lies largely on the active operators in the industry at all stages.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower.ana.ud2614e578	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9, and it is then the final debate – in a very positive way, the President has registered. The time for tomorrow's meeting is up, and we start the afternoon's meeting at noon. 18 with case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 789]]
