ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e43	The representative of Eirin Fallet will present a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e46	I will be allowed to put forward a proposal by Mrs Bekkemelm Orheim and myself on the approval of the child protection institutions in the proposal for a law amending the Law of 17 July 1992 No. 100 on child protection services.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e51	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e54	On behalf of the representative, Mr Høglund, and myself, I would like to make a proposal to amend the Law of 2 June 1989 No. 27 on the marketing of alcoholic beverages n.e.c.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e59	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e73	This is in many ways part of the 2002 state budget. In this sense, a reduction in the payroll obligation under the leave of absence is in principle stipulated. What Odelstinget should do today is decide on the proposal for a change in the law. A little about today's permit law: the employer's obligation to pay the perpetrators for a three-day employer's period. After that, daily pay is paid according to the population’s social security for up to 52 weeks before employers are reintroduced to pay. This matter was raised by the government of Stoltenberg and held by the new co-operation government. The proposal proposes to reduce the social security period from 52 to 26 weeks. This will mean that employers will be required to pay after a period of 26 weeks of social security. Permitting workers to be temporarily relieved of their obligations to work without the employer being relieved of their obligations to pay. That is to say, the contract of employment shall apply in such a way that the employees on leave have both the right and the obligation to take up the work at the end of the period of leave. The use of the permit rule varies widely. There may be large cyclical fluctuations in some industries, or there may be other unfortunate reasons why employers have to go to the step of permitting. So today's legislation means that employers in periods of low activity e.g. may transfer their payroll obligations to the social security system. I think it is important to have such a system, both for businesses and for employees. On the other hand, too much of today's labour is channelled into the industries that have these major fluctuations. Another result of too generic legislation may be that the number of layoffs increases, because it is cheaper for employers. The Committee believes that a reduction in the period of social security equal to that proposed would mean that employers will decide at a much earlier stage whether the company needs the workforce of the company. This also means that workers who are on leave will return to work at a much earlier time, in other words, come to work sooner and faster. I would like to make it clear that when Odelstingen now moves to the step of tightening up the payroll during the period of leave, it is important to follow closely the developments in the labour market. And if the labour market situation becomes difficult, with extensive lay-offs and negative consequences for workers, the Committee will recall that one can come back to the promise and, if necessary, amend it. Finally, the Committee has received a copy of a letter from the NHO to the Minister of Labour and Administration, where the NHO expresses doubts as to whether these changes are also intended to apply to permits initiated before 1 January 2002. From my side, I interpret the bill so that there is no reason to fear this. An amendment to the law applicable from 1 January 2002 shall not have retroactive effect if it has not been stated otherwise in the proposal or in the setting up of the committee. Therefore, I believe that the new rules will only apply to permits issued after 1 January 2002. Permits before that time shall be governed by the law of the day — simply a 52-week period of social security. In order to clarify this, I would urge the Council of State to take the floor and answer the question asked by the NHO, so that both the Committee and the Department have an equal interpretation of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e96	Since this case was dismissed, a request has been made by the members of the Municipal Committee of the Right to forward it. The enquiry comes from the asphalt industry, an industry that is seasonal and depending on climatic conditions as well as geography. For the enterprises in this sector, it is very central to retain skilled labour, so that the workers start up again in the enterprises in a new season. It would be very problematic for these enterprises to keep workers on leave if the benefit from popular security is reduced to 26 weeks, and it is said that the option for businesses could be terminated. Now, the effects of seasonal fluctuations are assumed to be of a temporary nature. The State's Vegvesen Produktion AS itself will have a self-interest in putting all-year maintenance on the market for post-organisation competitive operation and maintenance. The reduction of 26 weeks will be very unfortunate for the asphalt industry during a transitional period. The Ministry will therefore be contacted by the industry on this issue, and we will ask the Ministry to be in favour of a dialogue with these companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e107	As far as the issue of retroactive effects is concerned, it is clear that unemployment benefits are a right-based living allowance for the individual, and a decision on day-to-day pay therefore, in my opinion and in the department, has a very high level of protection. I therefore assume that the law will not apply retroactively. And I can inform you that by letter to the Directorate of Labour of 9 November this year, the Department has already informed that the posted workers who receive a day-to-day allowance decision before 1 January 2002 will be able to expire the period of leave of 52 weeks. With regard to the question of asphalt workers, there is one group of workers who are exempt from the law in today's Payroll Act and there are workers in fish processing establishments. This is related to the many short-term fluctuations in raw material access there. Clearly, there are many areas of activity that are subject to larger and smaller seasonal fluctuations. Creating additional derogations for more groups than for workers in fish processing establishments is not desirable. But I would like to stress that I have noticed that in the Committee's position it is clarified that it is important to follow closely the developments in this matter and, if necessary, to amend the law if the change would lead to significant negative consequences for the employees, or if the unemployment rate is so high that it creates problems. And I think the question of the asphalt workers is one of the questions we're going to follow closely in the cooling water of the implementation of the law. I should also like to take note of the Committee's other comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e114	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see page 71]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e129	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Asmund Kristoffersen, when the rapporteur, Britt Hildeng, is in Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e142	Ot. pp. No 4 and Ot. pp. No 27 contains a number of proposals for legislative changes. Several of them are of a purely legal nature and are adjusted to previous legislative acts. These amendments will be of little concern to me, but I would rather comment on some proposals for legislative changes resulting from the budget we are now considering in parallel. The desire to do something for those who are most economically disadvantaged has gone like a red thread throughout the whole budget process of the autumn. It marked the budget proposals of the Stoltenberg government, and it marked the follow-up of the Bondevik government. Several of the legislative changes now being promoted aim to improve the economy for groups that generally have difficulties. Other legislative proposals are about creating greater security for groups that have so far fallen between several chairs and have thus come into economic crisis situations in the event of sickness or unemployment. In several contexts, the Committee’s attention has been focused on child-growth conditions. The Committee has pointed out that, in particular, younger non-pensioners with child care can find it difficult to do so financially. The Committee therefore welcomes the proposal to amend the Law on Social Security aimed at improving the economy of families with children where both or one of the parents is a pensioner. A unanimous committee agrees with the proposal to increase the child allowance for old-age and disability pensioners from 30 p.m. to 40 pst. of the basic amount, which means an increase of SEK 5 136 per year. a child. On the basis of the same argument, the Committee agrees unanimously with the proposal that single-parents with disabled or long-term sick children should also be fully supported for the provision of child-care services when an increase in the amount of aid is granted because of the child’s illness or disability. In this way, the Committee considers that it would also be better to facilitate the possibility of training and work for lone dependants. The government is following up proposals adopted in the context of the Equalization Communication, which pointed out that young people who became seriously ill did not have the same financial security as others in our society, because our legislation did not catch up with young people in an educational phase. This means that difficult economic situations may arise when the period for the conversion of loans into scholarships has expired and until a person can receive a rehabilitation allowance. In this context, the Ministry proposes to introduce a special scheme for young people in education so that rehabilitation benefits can be provided immediately after the expiry of the period of conversion of scholarships. Proposals are made for amendments to the National Social Security Act (Sections 3-27 and 3-28) which provide for more favourable pension rules for long-term spaces in institutions. The entire Committee is in line with the Government’s proposals. During long-term open-ended housing by the public, the benefits of public interest are reduced to living quarters. However, during the 1997 budgetary procedure, the reduction in pensions was discontinued in somatic hospitals. However, such a reduction has not been attributed to patients in psychiatric hospitals. In the view of the Ministry, it is reasonable that patients who are in a outpatient treatment scheme are treated as patients who are staying in somatic hospitals, but that long-term residence is treated as being equivalent to stay in somatic hospitals, so that social security benefits are reduced in the same way as in somatic hospitals. However, the Ministry suggests that it is only in the case of long-term stays over one year that the pension should be reduced. At present, there is a relatively large difference between the minimum amount that patients at different lucky day institutions receive, depending on whether they are state or municipal institutions. However, the Committee expresses the view that the patient’s payment in state and municipal institutions should be similar. The Committee therefore agrees with the proposal to improve the economic situation of long-term residents of state institutions by increasing the minimum amount there by DKK 516. A surviving spouse under 67 years of age is entitled, under certain conditions, to a survivor's pension to be curtailed against labour income. On several occasions, a large majority have underlined the importance of motivating surviving spouses to support themselves in their own work. On this basis, the Ministry has proposed that the pension for the deceased under the age of 55 be reduced on the basis of the expected income at least equal to twice the basic amount. However, derogations shall be possible if the survivors have reasonable grounds for having lower income. Such exceptional reasons may include the need for education, care for young children or lack of employment. The majority of the Committee has joined the proposal, stressing that the proposal is based on current practice and is thus a strengthening, but not a change, of existing principles. On several occasions, the Committee and the EEAS have highlighted the importance of greater flexibility in the relationship between work and social security. One has also pointed out the importance of older people wanting to stay longer in the workplace, but they need a slightly looser relationship than a full or half job. But for older people who are too young, there must be a point that all work should pay off. Today's rule that pensioners between 67 and 70 years of age get their pension reduced by 40 pst. if they serve more than 1 G, limit the motivation to work more. It is therefore gratifying that the Ministry is now following up the Stortingen's proposal to increase the income limit to 2G for those between 67 and 70 years before the pension is curtailed. As I said, this aggregate proposition contains a number of proposals for changes. I have chosen to comment on some of these. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e178	At the time of the presentation of these two propositions, the government has made a number of changes to the Law on Social Security. Although most of them are more or less adaptable in nature, there are also some changes that need to be said to be of a principle nature. I will therefore be allowed to add some comments to the changes where the Progress Party has a different view than the Government. The proposal provides for a more favourable pension scheme for long-term residents of institutions, which supports the Progress Party. However, there is reason to note that different rules have been established according to the type of institution involved. This is not appropriate in the opinion of the Progress Party and, in this context, the Progress Party wishes to review the legislation in order to amend it in order to give one the same curtailment provisions for all institutions. The provisions of the pay regulation on allowances have not been adjusted since the 1980s. This has led to the fact that those affected by this regulation must be said to have come out badly in recent years. The Progress Party will therefore propose that the amount of the free will be increased to NOK 12 000. As regards the amendments proposed in the provisions on sanctions for lone dependants, the Party will vote against them because this could lead to additional work for the social security system in terms of procedures and follow-up, while not having a significant impact on the user. The proposal provides for a restriction on the right to a survivor’s pension, despite the fact that there are already strong restrictions on the right to receive this pension in terms of coordination and need testing. The Party of Progress will not contribute to the implementation of further tightening in this field and will therefore vote against the proposed amendment. It is gratifying that the Government is now following up the decision taken in connection with the examination of Document No. 8:84 for 2000-2001, from Siv Jensen and myself, to stimulate older workers to further participate in the labour market. The change to which it is added, where the amount of free time is increased from 1 G to 2 G by the combination of income from work and retirement before the age of 70, is just one step in the right direction. The members of the Progress Party of the Committee have therefore proposed that pensioners be entitled to their full and legal pension at the age of 67, without delimitation for any other income. The Progress Party cannot agree that minimum resource-intensive implementation could take precedence over privacy and the interests of the public, and would therefore be opposed to the Government's proposal to legislate an authorisation to collect and record account number information also for persons who are not beneficiaries. In addition, the progress batch cannot accept the permission to omit advance notification as regards the usability of the registered account number. Furthermore, the Progress Party will join in the proposals for amendments and simplifications in this area. Finally, I would like to bring up the proposals where the Progress Party stands alone or together with others, and which are included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e201	Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e204	SV is pleased that the child plugin is now being extended to 40 pst. of the basic amount of the public interest, as provided for in the proposal in the Equalisation Communication. SV is also pleased that, in the context of the treatment of the State budget, a further increase in the child supplement from next year has been achieved – not least due to SV – by the addition of 70 million. kr in that area. It is clear that the children’s supplement will be targeted at families that are less well-equipped economically, and it is therefore important to increase this type of supplement. We are in agreement with the Central Party on a proposal that I would like to make here too. We underline the need to look at and try to increase a number of additions that can be targeted at the weakest groups, and ask for an assessment of an increase in the basic amount of social security and the most common supplements in order to reduce the need for supplementary social assistance for social security beneficiaries. Then, of course, it is also important to look at how, in particular, young people, children and young people, can be achieved with targeted adjustments in additions. We have seen how there have been earlier differences in pension reduction between different groups of long-term spaces. Psychiatric patients and patients within the somatic community have been treated differently. Now it's fixed up, and we think it's good. There are, however, wordings related to the law that may create confusion as to why groups continue to be treated differently. Like the previous speakers, we see it as an objective to eliminate discrimination – pension benefits should be independent of whether you are in a municipal, county or state institution. So even if you get to change the law here, it's still a way to go. Total compensation should also be provided in the light of the SV's pension reduction policies for different groups. There is now also harmonisation of the employer’s period by extending it also for self-employed persons. I would like to stress that SV was against the extension of the employer's period both times during the previous majorisation period. At the same time, however, we perceive it unreasonable to have a difference during the employer's period between employees and self-employed people. What happens here when a majority goes in order for the employer's period to be longer, i.e. 16 days, is that it is going to be the same for the two groups. I note that the Centre Party argues against this, in so far as it is somewhat alarming, as they have previously agreed to an extension of the employer's period. But now they're arguing against it. We disagree on such a reasoning - the period must be equal for both groups if you have first entered in order to extend it for one group. There is a narrowing in relation to survivors’ pensions benefits. We in SV also disagree with that. We are constantly ignoring the fact that coordination and tightening of pension schemes can help undermine general confidence in public pensions. In addition, of course, a family will rely on the common income, especially in situations where you also have children. From the point of view of SV, you should be careful to tighten a lot in relation to those who are left when someone falls off. We are therefore opposed to the proposed amendment to the law relating to the survivor's pension. I have mentioned the proposal that SV has with the Senterpartiet. The other proposals, as far as I can see, have already been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e227	Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e230	In Ot.prp. No 4 and Ot. pp. No 27 is promoted more legislative changes that I just want to briefly come up with here, but I want to say a little bit about the practical consequences of some of these changes. An overall committee agrees that the child allowance for old-age and disability pensioners is to be increased by 10 percentage points and thus by 40 pst. of the basic amount of the social security. This is in line with the intentions contained in the dithering message. At the same time, we are pleased that there will now be an increase in the child supplement through the allocation of 70 million. kr in the State budget. However, those families with children who have to increase the percentage of the child supplement through social security but who have such a poor economy that they have to receive supplementary social assistance will not receive this supplement as a real increase in their economy. We believe that social security benefits must be at such a level that, in most cases, there should be no need for supplementary social assistance. This would also simplify the government's work on support and grant schemes for the most disadvantaged. The Central Party, together with SV, therefore proposes that the Government assess the basic amount of social security and the most common supplements with a view to reducing the need for supplementary social assistance for beneficiaries. The central party also requests, together with the SV and the Progress Party, the Government to develop new guidelines for the reduction of pension benefits for persons with long-term residence in municipal or county institutions who are equal to users in such institutions. In the context of the review and debate on the Equalisation Communication, the search was made for the difficult economic situation of young people and students with serious diseases. We are therefore pleased that a special scheme is now being proposed for this group, so that rehabilitation money can be provided immediately after the end of the period for the conversion of loans into grants, and we support this proposal. However, we are amazed that no batches other than the centre party oppose the extension of the self-risk period for sickness benefits for self-employed workers. For all others, the sick pay scheme shall be complied with until 2005. The extension of self-employed workers now proposed will impose additional burdens on this group and will mean a worsening of the framework conditions for those trying to create or maintain their own jobs. Many people speak hotly for such employment policies and value creation, but here these developments are undermined. It is not right, as the representative, Mr Ballo, said, that this is equivalent to the groups. The employer's period should be equal, said Ballo, but here is the actual employer, i.e. the self-employed, also the employee, and there is no other employee who has 16 days of self-employment. The centre party will oppose such a policy and will therefore vote against Sections 8-34 and 8-36, first and second paragraphs. The central party will also vote against the Government’s proposal to restrict the right to a survivor’s pension. There are already strong restrictions on the right to receive a survivor's pension in terms of coordination and need testing, and we will not contribute to a further tightening of a benefit that both the deceased and the deceased have calculated. The centre party would also stress that the proposed regulatory change is not complete and that therefore it is largely entrusted to the administration to establish supplementary rules in this area. In sum, the proposed change is not acceptable. I'm glad that we now have a change in the law in line with what the Center Party went into in ours, as pensioners between 67 and 70 years of age should be more able to combine work and social security by increasing the amount of free money from 1 to 2 G. In the case of the Government's proposal that the Rikstrygdenverket should have the legal basis for obtaining and recording account number information also for persons who are not beneficiaries, the Centre Party will oppose this. We also want to go against the home to omit advance notice regarding the usability of the registered account number. The central party believes that privacy must mean a lot in such a case as well, and that the usefulness and insight of the Government is not so great that it balances this consideration. In this context, I would also like to point out what the Ministry of Data Protection and the Ministry of Justice have said in this regard. Finally, I would like to make it clear that, in line with the rest of the Committee, the Central Party supports the proposal for a law to give transitional provisions. However, together with the Progress Party and the SV, we would like to stress that the groups covered by this provision should not become worse off in relation to the current coordination rules with regard to the amount after coordination.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e264	Both of the two legislative proposals that Odelstinget is dealing with today are essentially a follow-up to the Equalisation Communication, as the previous Bondevik government presented. I am therefore pleased that the Stoltenberg government also followed up some of these proposals in Ot.prp. No 4 for 2001-2002. I am particularly pleased that the current government has had an impact on the improvements made in Ot.prp. No 27 for 2001-2002. The government is working on a long-term action plan against poverty. In this work, we are particularly concerned with the situation of disadvantaged children and families with children. What we are dealing with today is the first steps. Disability pensioners with child care are a group that very often have poor living conditions, and many have low income over time. The increase in the child supplement is therefore a targeted and good measure to improve the living conditions of poor families with children. The Stoltenberg Government proposal to increase the Appendix from 30 to 35 pst. We believe that the basic amount was not sufficient, and that is why we are pleased to note that there is a majority in our proposal to increase the supplement to 40 pst. Unearned pensioners with children may receive a reduction in income at the death of the other parent. It is therefore positive that the Committee also agrees with the Government's proposal that access to children's allowances be granted even if the child is entitled to a child's pension. Some patients in psychiatric hospitals have a difficult financial situation. In order to avoid a reduction in social security, there are some who interrupt the necessary treatment. The proposal that a pension should not be curtailed for treatment periods of less than one year could prevent this. In addition, the proposal will more closely equate psychiatric patients with patients in somatic hospitals, which is an independent point. An increase in the minimum amount of residents living in institutions for more than one year seems reasonable. There are also reasons for similarity that are important here. The minority asks the Government to develop new policies for reducing pension benefits that equate users in different institutions. We should be aware that there is a difference between the reduction of social security while staying at state and county institutions on the one hand and the direct self-payment to the municipalities of municipal institutions on the other. However, I agree that there is a need for a review of these different legislations, not least with a view to simplification. The minimum amount of municipal institutions is also increasing, while the increase in the basic amount of population protection is increasing. It is true, however, that the so-called free amount of NOK 6000 has been kept still. I expect that the compensation for stays in municipal institutions and care services will be questions that will be further assessed in some time. In order to justify increased self-sufficiency among younger survivors, it is proposed to reinforce the requirement for expected professional activity for persons with a pension or transitional benefit as a surviving spouse. The minority points out that the proposed change of rules leaves too much to the administration to draw up supplementary rules in this area. They also consider it unacceptable and surprising that the Ministry proposes to impose restrictions on access to survivors' pensions for current cases. Let me make it clear that there is still access to the full pension. This will be particularly relevant for survivors such as: have small children, or who do not have the prerequisites for taking up a job. Since the scheme is, to a large extent, a clarification of the applicable law, it should also apply to current cases. But at the same time, there has been a reasonable one-year conversion time for everyone, and longer time for those who need time for education, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e287	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e290	In the context of the examination of Document No: 8:84 for 2000-2001, by Siv Jensen and signed, Stortinget took the following decision: ‘The government is asking for proposals in the context of the 2002 State Budget to raise the threshold of labour income that pensioners between 67 and 70 years of age may have without curtailment in the pension, from 1 to 2 times the basic amount of the population’s pension, and any other changes in the law on social security that reward those who wish to contribute their labour after the age of 67.’ In this case, part of this proposal is followed up, i.e. the lifting from 1 to 2 G. The fact that this group can work a little bit more now is very positive, so that we can take advantage of this highly skilled workforce even more than we can today. But it goes on to say that the Government is asked to make proposals on ‘any other changes to the law on popular security that reward those who wish to contribute their labour after the age of 67’. The Minister of Health will continue to look at this, in view of the situation we are in per cent. Today, where, in some areas, in particular in the field of skills-intensive activities, we have a shortage of labour? My question is then whether the Minister of Health will now further facilitate them between 67 and 70 years of age, who, after a long time of service, have the skills needed by individual businesses and whether he will contribute to further improving the system in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e301	The proposal for a more favourable shortening of the old-age pension against labour income before the age of 70 will stimulate older workers to stay longer in work. The Progress Party asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting for changes such as ‘to give pensioners the right to their full and legal pension at the age of 67 without any curtailment of any other income’. In this regard, I would like to take the opportunity to recall that it is only at the age of 70 that the provision of social security provides an unconditional right to an old-age pension and that further service ends. So to the representative Nesvik's question. It is clear that there must always be an assessment of how society can balance the need to ensure the possibility of a pension and the right to a pension and at the same time the ability to do more work for those who want it. It is a particularly topical issue in times of shortage of labour. In this way, I expect the Department to continuously assess whether there is a need for measures other than what has been promoted in this context, without my being here and now going to notify anything on behalf of the Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e310	I would like to refer to the proposal that the sickness pay scheme be harmonised, as it states in the proposal, and that the self-risk period for self-employed workers should be extended. It is said that this is a non-discrimination and that the employer’s period should be equal. But there's no equal treatment all the time these people are also employees and get a self-employment period of 16 days that you have to finance yourself. I think this is the wrong angle of both the one and the other government that has presented this proposal. I want to ask the Minister of Health, who represents a government that says that positive framework conditions for value creation and for private business are important, whether he does not see this difference with regard to the issue of non-discrimination, that there is still an inequality here, and that it thus provides a worsening framework for self-employed workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e315	The employer’s period for employees was extended from 14 to 16 calendar days from 1 April 1998. Self-employed persons and freelancers are entitled to sickness benefits from social security after 14 days from the day on which the disease occurred. This is called waiting time. In this context, self-employed and freelancers must be considered as their own employers, and the Ministry has therefore considered it appropriate to harmonise the waiting time for these groups with the employer period. Obviously, you can draw the concept of equality too far in such a context. There are different groups that are involved, and that is why there are also different legislation. However, different waiting times complicate the legislation, and the proposal is primarily justified by a desire to harmonise the rules of the law. The proposal will mean administrative simplification in cases where a person has income at the same time both as an employee and as a trader or a freelancer. The main point of the proposal is the administrative simplification that this actually provides, and I think it must be a point of the large and complex regulatory framework we have in the area of public order, that we are seeking to simplify where we can reasonably achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e322	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The speakers who now have the floor have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e327	This is going to be a line in many ways, not to the Council of State, but to the Central Party. I have problems understanding the distinction that this is made with regard to the employer's period for employees and for self-employed workers. I'm almost going to have to ask the Center Party to clarify it. It was under the government of Bondevik I you got an extension. It was then a wise member of the Center Party. Is it true that the Centre party was initially in favour of an extension of the employer's period as long as only employees were concerned, but that it should affect employers as such as self-employed workers, or is it really such that the Centre Party has always opposed the extension of the employer's period, but was it forced by the Bondevik Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e332	It is interesting to change lines in this debate as well. I didn't expect us to have this, but I'd like to take it. The employer's period was extended, that's right. But at the same time, it is quite clear that the relationship here is that the employer and employee are the same person. I figured the representative of Ballo saw it. In the debate that we have had, at least in the last year, it has been said that the sick pay system should be protected, so that the workers should not be burdened more than what they have done, and then we must try to reduce sick leave. It applies in all contexts. Then I expect Ballo to agree that this must also be done in connection with self-employed and individual companies. This is our point, that we should not burden the employee and the employer, who are the same person here, with a greater self-payment and self-risk period than we do before. I'm also a little concerned that this often affects entrepreneurs, women's jobs and the value creation program that you've been talking about now, where you're going to try to get more people who can create their own jobs and maybe be their own success blackmail. The framework conditions for this would be a lot more difficult with this change, which, above all, when I have the opportunity to say so, is justified by administrative simplification, but it is individual companies and small self-employed people who have to pay much of the administrative simplification, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e341	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 72]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e357	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 77]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e365	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e425	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e435	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e442	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, by Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 3 and 4, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party The President first takes note of these proposals. Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, reads: ‘The government asks the Government to develop new guidelines for the reduction of pension benefits for long-term residents of municipal or county institutions that treat users in such institutions as equals.’ Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, says: ‘The Government is asking the Government to assess the basic amount of social security and the most common supplements with a view to reducing the need for supplementary social assistance for social security beneficiaries.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the reduction in the pension of long-term residents of municipal or county institutions does not occur until after one year’s stay and the amount of the allowance shall be at least NOK 12 000.’ Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Grand Duchy on changes in the law on social security which give pensioners the right to their full and legal pension at the age of 67 without shortening any other income.’ The proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e600	The Central Party has announced that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e804	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e839	The party of progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e917	The party of progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e1246	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e1256	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e1618	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11-lower.ana.ud806e1628	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
