ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e26	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Twist Party 5 minutes and one of the independent representatives 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose, with strong doubts, the possibility of changing lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e37	The current debate on the remuneration of farming concessions was, in effect, the subject of last year’s budgetary negotiations and the budgetary agreement between the Workers’ Party and the Centre Parties. That's why these parties are behind the majority voting. It is proposed that 35 concessions be awarded in the first round, with the possibility of increasing the figure to 40 if the ministry considers it appropriate. In addition, the majority believe that an initial fee of 5 million should be paid. kr per. concession, assuming that a newly granted concession cannot be transferred within a 10-year period. The majority add several leads to the suspension regarding the criteria to be used for the award of concessions. The same majority, in the position of the department, asked for a detailed land tax scheme. The same applies to the issue of production fees. The Ministry is also set to address further charging issues in the case of the resale of concessions. From the Right, it's just to say that we're disappointed with the proposition as well as the majority position of the committee. The award round of the year is the first since 1989. The right considers that the majority parties are in line with very modest ambitions on behalf of the industry. Right wants to at least increase the number of new concessions to 50. The number 35, on which the Labour Party and the Centre Parties invest, corresponds to almost half of the annual salmon production growth. It is quite deplorable that it is when the Workers' Party and Centre have picked out the Norwegian farming industry as an industry where from now on the operators have to expect to pay a high price for the entrance ticket. From now on, the Norwegian farming industry needs to be subjected to new taxes. The right is in favour of obtaining a remuneration from the Treasury for new concessions. We are also opposed to the Norwegian farming industry being subject to spe­cific new taxes, which will result in a risk to the industry of reducing its international competitiveness. Remuneration and high charges will raise the financial threshold to establish themselves in the industry. In particular, for the many hundreds of entrepreneurs and smaller farmers with limited equity who want to start breeding activities or extend a small plant, it may be difficult to obtain sufficient funding. I believe the entire Norwegian coast today will notice the full kneeling of the centre parties for the Labour Party's tax and regulatory policy. In the Right’s view, the opportunities for Norwegian farming to become a strong growth industry in parts of Norway, characterised by a decline in the population, which sorely need incentives for new business. The right wants initially to introduce full freedom of establishment in the farming industry and is therefore in favour of reimbursing new concessions. As long as the concession system is in place, the right is opposed to setting down non-commercial criteria for the award of new concessions, such as sex, ethnicity and the number of concessions the applicant already has, etc. In the case of free establishment, all with access to an approved breeding site may engage in breeding. Therefore, the Right will replace today’s concession system with an approval system that requires environmental, animal health and professional competence. Such a policy will ensure that the market and availability of suitable coastal areas limits the potential for growth in the industry. Until market access to the EU is improved, we are now tied to production restrictions for salmon. The question that we have to ask ourselves before or before is how long we are going to commit ourselves to the limitations of the salmon agreement with the EU. Today’s Norwegian farming policy, led by the Workers’ Party and the Centre Parties, results in far greater growth of salmon production outside the country’s borders than within. A very large part of the growth abroad is actually the backbone of Norwegian actors. Even the Norwegian state, with former State cereals at its head, invests immediately the blessing of the great majority in these times of billions beyond the borders of the country. I am afraid that today's landfill treatment will hardly reduce Norwegian operators' interest in betting out. Today, global breeding seems to grow by about 10 pst. per 1 % years. In comparison, the annual growth rate in Chile has been over 25 pst in recent years. One of the reasons many Norwegian companies look at Chile and Canada is the much simpler systems for granting production permits. The Chilean Minister for Fisheries says, among other things: that in the course of a twenty-year period, the country’s export potential within farming will rise by approximately DKK 180 billion per year. years. In 2000, Chilean exports amounted to about 9 billion dollars. By comparison, we know that Norway exported salmon and trout for an estimated DKK 13 billion last year. Chile has reached the objective that an applicant should have a response to its application within three to six months. The aim in Chile is to in principle be free from farming, except in areas where there is an explicit prohibition. At home 10 to 12 years will pass between the allocation rounds, with the result that concessions have become the purest securities, which can be traded with significant million gains. Few countries have the climatic and environmental opportunities for aquaculture such as Norway. However, Norwegian salmon will increasingly face tougher international competition in the market, and to a large extent from salmon behind Norwegian interests. Furthermore, the adverse effects of the Labour Party and Centre policies are that the high ambitions we have on behalf of the Norwegian fishing industry need to be reduced as long as market opportunities are limited, establishment is limited, and the further processing of Norwegian fish mainly takes place outside the borders of the country. For fish species other than salmon, full freedom of establishment should be provided for as soon as possible. The right has initially adhered to the principle of the establishment of national salmon waters. The right will go a little bit closer to work than the proposals of the Villaks Committee. This concerns in particular the possibilities for farming in eastern Finland. There is a standstill in the development of salmon farming in eastern Finland pending the discontinuation of the Villaks Committee. Therefore, the right is asking the Government in the coming allocation period to ensure that concessions are granted in East Finland. We know that this year about 500,000 tonnes of farmed salmon are produced in Norway. It's almost twice the total Norwegian meat production. By comparison, we know that the total amount of chicken farming in Europe is estimated at 35 million. tonnes. For Norwegian salmon, the possibilities are enormous, and the market as well. It's big – it's huge. Therefore, do not allow Norwegian regulators to dampen the pace, ambitions and opportunities for this successful industry, which is to give up life along the Norwegian coast. Finally, I take up the suggestions that the Right is on and behind, which are referred to in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e65	Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e70	It's nice if we get some temperature in this room today, because in the nutrition committee we're in the lucky situation that we're some of the most. So such a debate could refresh. In that context, I want to have a little line to the speaker who was just on the platform. Ivar Kristiansen indicated that the possibilities in the market are limited. He's quite right about that. It is true that Norway has chosen to stand outside the EU, which is our main market. Therefore, we have had to take some regulations that are difficult for us on our own to get past. I would like to ask the representative of Kristiansen how he will achieve full freedom of establishment while respecting the agreements we have with the EU in the case of salmon production. The representative Kristiansen also stated that there will now be a high price of the entry ticket to enter the farming industry, and that it has been ten to twelve years since the last concession was granted. Does the representative Kristiansen think that there is a low price on the entrance ticket to join the breeding industry today? It's the way to get someone new to come in, they have to buy a company that has a concession. Now that I can read in the fishing press, it's easy to get between 20 million. NOK 30 million. NOK, maybe up to $40 million. kr. I'm assuming that with the level that we're now applying, there'll be possibilities for more. It's important that Kristiansen answer these questions. What will be the consequence of Justice's policy of full freedom of establishment? Does he think there's any farming industry in Norway want to be at the current time?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e79	I think you'll be able to get a little different answers depending on who you're asking. If you ask those who are in the industry today, who have received their concessions, basically without any kind of remuneration, and who also enjoy the annual allocated weightstone in the feed quota, they might think it is okay for the new ones to pay an entry ticket to enter this industry. But we ask the many, many hundreds who live in community communities along the coast, who have a expectation and a belief that they can contribute to creating business along the coast, for which we all know there is a strong need, and who must be allowed to develop, especially in those areas of the country that are most suitable for farming – it is a paradox that these are more or less the areas that have the greatest decline or poor age composition initially – will probably give a different answer, I think, than that it will be necessary to pay $5 million. kr in order to enter and obtain a concession before starting with the other investment in construction, which is certainly likely to reach tens of millions. At least we're talking about 15-20 million. kr before you start. We want to release this industry. We have a great faith in the actors in this industry. We believe that they are as capable of managing growth, development and market knowledge as Norwegian politicians are in directing this industry and this growth. We also see that even the possibility that we have in this room to increase the number of concessions, you don't want to use either. Therefore, this has become a matter that is more limited than looking at opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e90	We in this room have great expectations for Norwegian aquaculture. We have even said on very many occasions that we expect the aquaculture industry to take over after the oil. This industry also needs to be aware that, when that time comes, it needs to be involved and contribute a corresponding amount of value to society. But it's still a long way to go before this industry is going to take over after the oil. We're at the beginning of an adventure. What this matter concerns is: What do we want with Norwegian aquaculture? What do we want with the coastal zone? What do we do with all the conflicts of interest, and what do we do with the rapid structural changes that happen? What do we do to ensure local ownership? The market situation is not that simple. We have the salmon agreement to negotiate. We have limitations on feed that will enter into the very near future. Then it is completely incomprehensible to me that the Right will repeal the Breeding Act and relevant laws and ensure full freedom of establishment within the breeding of marine species. I cannot see that the established industry is interested in such a release. It can pull out the bottom of what this industry, these actors have been with and built up over the last 20-30 years. Does the Right really believe that today we can repeal the Breeding Act and that the industry can live with the market situation that we will then impose on them?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e99	I am afraid that the Right cannot divide it out of all concerns that individual representatives and parties are able to put forward in this case in this Chamber. It would not be appropriate at all for the Right to have such a development along the coast within an industry that they have the potential and the ability to achieve healthy and good growth, that we should run with the hand brake on, at the same time so fully run on the brake and so many concerns that today, with the Norwegian state at the head, Norwegian operators are finding greater and better opportunities for growth, development and investment beyond the borders of the country. It's going to be nothing but the purest party speeches when you talk about the great potential this industry has and will have, if you're not willing to open up the opportunities that several hundred, maybe thousands of good people along the Norwegian coast have expectations. The right considers that the environmental conditions in place, the quality of localisation, knowledge and veterinary conditions, must be allowed to start. The opposite, as I see the middle parties do, is to bind to the EU mast. The EU shall be allowed to determine the growth of feed quota. The EU will be allowed to determine the number of new concessions. The EU shall be allowed to set the minimum price. I'm afraid that it will be with the ambitions as with the party numbers. They can be repeated with success quite many times, but I'm not sure that those who are in line with applications to get started, this seems to be particularly nice to listen to infinitely.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e108	To hear the right-hand description of the situation of the aquaculture industry is to hear the right-hand description of the situation for Norway outside the EU. Everyone else sees the trend in industry as positive. It is quite adventurous – in the same way that there is no problem for Norway that we did not become a member of the EU, on the contrary. If we keep the growth in sales that we have today in the aquaculture industry, we are reaching the target of 200-300 billion in 2020. So strong growth is actually. I think there will be other limitations than that it is the government that governs, that will determine how far we reach within this industry, among other things. what nature can tolerate, and what we can get rid of disease. The Industry Committee has had a lot of contact with the industry, with professionals in the industry, in the years I've been here. I have not met anyone who shares Right's concerns, and who shares the Right's desire that no one regulate this industry. I haven't met anyone. I would then ask Ivar Kristiansen: who is within the industry who wants what he has expressed from this pulpit to happen? And then I have one more question. That's the situation we've had, where a free concession paper has been distributed, and then there's been a chance to sell it for 20-30 million. kr as soon as you have got the installation on your legs. Is it right that a system is now being put in place that limits the possibility of reselling a free paper, a concession paper that is intended to give the right to breed, so as to make it easier for those who establish themselves in the industry, that there is less need for capital in the industry than it would have been if one had been free to sell it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e119	Sometimes a good attempt is made to straighten out the oven for the blacksmith. I don't feel very hit in this context today. But I think you can skip the record when you think that the Right must take some sort of responsibility that we have today a system where farming concessions appear to be the purest gift letters. We've been against the concession system. Had the Right's policy been allowed to apply in this area, we would not have had these exchanges and sales of gift certificates or farming concessions, which have made it impossible for the small local entrepreneurs to enter the industry. For one, a strong financial backbone must be capable of entering the industry, except for the ten-year periods between each allocation round. I have a suspicion and really believe that the centre parties have initially had a very good desire to follow the Right in today's position and today's debate. But there will probably be new games and opportunities as time passes. I just want to replicate to the representative Lund that it would be impossible in a short line to answer the thousand questions and concerns that are being raised. I am quite sure that the 6 000-8 000 jobs in which Norwegian fish are processed in the EU zone are jobs that enough coastal communities could rather expect to have in turn in their communities for the joy and income of those who run the same communities. But we'll probably get a chance to rematch and new discussions on these questions. I just hope that you see that the growth within this industry is now much larger outside the country's borders than domestic. It should worry more than right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e128	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e132	The breeding industry has the potential to become a truly big business. I then think not only of salmon and aure, but of farming many different marine species as well as the cultivation of shellfish. It is important that the Storting has an active and driving hold in order to increase the size and strength of the farming industry. For the Workers' Party, we have a fervent desire that this be done, and we will work actively for it to happen. The aim of the Breeding Act is to contribute to the balanced and sustainable development of the farming industry and to become a viable and viable district industry. We can establish that the farming industry is in a phase where it is experience-based and knowledge-based, and the industry, as we have said, has an enormous production potential. The emergence of this potential depends entirely on market developments, not least in the case of the EU and its new applicant countries. It's simply that even if we have a large production potential, we have a small market here at home. The growth of production is controlled by the governance to provide more stability and planning for the nutritionists. This is done in the first row using feed quotas and limited growth when it applies to new concessions. It is therefore quite appropriate to say that the risk factors by establishing themselves in the industry today are monthly smaller than in previous concession awards. Concession for the production of edible fish from salmon and aure provides in substance a protected right to practice. In addition, in recent years it has been possible to transfer breeding companies with concessions between traders for payment. These are concessions granted free of charge in its time. Therefore, the concession no longer has value only as a means of production, but also as a pure security. Then, in my opinion, after the Workers' Party's opinion and after the plurality, it is perfectly reasonable that the community also gets its fair share of this value. Nevertheless, most coastal inhabitants will never be granted a concession on which they can exercise a business activity or, where appropriate, translate at some point in time. The majority have seen the remuneration per. Consecution to 5 million. kr, but at the same time different objective criteria may result in deduction of this sum. This may include: be bound by local processing operations, obligations in relation to the development of breeding of new species, location far from markets and inadequate infrastructure. For some people, this would mean that the price of a concession would be close to zero. The majority argue that new concessions cannot be transferred within the 10 first years of the award decision, but that during this period there will be a need for the Directorate of Fisheries to make derogations on the basis of an application in exceptional circumstances. However, I would like to make it clear here that it is important for the Ministry of Fisheries to establish rules that stop creative attempts to circumvent its clear intention in this area, and I would like the Minister of Fisheries to comment on it at a later stage in the debate. In recent times, several media have stated that they are afraid that the farming industry will be a victim of a tax. When the majority in the adjustment request the department to pay a land tax or production levy to be submitted to the Stortinget, this is not said to be a charge to be imposed. I would like here and now to signal strongly that in such an assessment, a closer look at the impact such charges would have on the competitiveness of Norwegian farming. In line with the introduction of a remuneration for the concessions, we have to assume that it is time for the department to pay a fee for the resale of concessions. I would like to repeat that the farming industry does not need to lose the night sleep of fear in order for them to become the new victim of the fee. No! No! We're going to have growth, and we're going to have the potential that we all see. That's the clear message from the Workers' Party's page. The majority have agreed that new concessions should be distributed at regular intervals in the future, and at a rate appropriate to market developments, and it is reasonable to believe that annual growth is shared with about the same growth in existing concessions by increasing the feed quota and by distributing new concessions. There is reason to recall that farming is a major contributor to securing business activity and busses on the coast, and we therefore believe that it is in principle right that concessions should be linked to the municipality in which they are allocated. Nevertheless, there must be an opening in order for any move to be approved by the Directorate for Fisheries. The award of concessions shall have a local anchoring point by giving priority to the activities with the best integration with other activities in the area. So the majority agree that 35 concessions are to be awarded in the first round, but with the conditions for the ministry to increase the number to 40 if they find it defensive. This means that there should be flexibility and the ability to meet any market developments during the first year. It has been important for us to have a distribution of the new concessions that allow us to use the production potential also in the area of the country where aquaculture is currently underdeveloped. That means, as I see it, that none of the parts of the country are excluded from the grant of concessions, because there are many areas in the different parts of the country that have suffered from the expansion of farming, but that have production potential. I have personally been busy getting the woman part up on the owner's side of the farming industry, and I am happy that there have been several numbers to consider when granting concessions. This also has a lot to say in a district perspective, because if there are no women's jobs, the guys won't be long either. I would like to remind you that it has been agreed that those with one or two concessions and new entrants should be given priority in the allocations. I want to make it clear that we have a number of actors with these many concessions today, but who in the past have had a significantly larger amount of concessions and have sold themselves down, and I find reason to remind you that it's not such that they can expect special priority. Along our coast we see that there are a good deal of further processing that are vulnerable due to fluctuations in prices of the raw material on the salmon side. This allows unstable jobs for those who want to work in the further processing industry. Therefore, the majority are concerned about whether these activities can be granted concessions, so that they can have sufficient raw material for rational operation. In fact, it is an example that a market job can generate ten jobs in the further processing industry. There will be a lot of communities that will appreciate it. There have been several rounds on which criterion should be used for a municipality to speak in the event of concessions being granted, and the majority have found reason to stress this with approved coastal zone plans when granting concessions. It's not an absolute requirement, but it's important for us, considering that there are conflicts of interest along the coast between those who have more traditional uses of the coast and those who are now growing through more farming. Finally, I would like to remind you that when the issue of remuneration for concessions on salmon and aure is at its worst, one should not forget to remind those who necessarily have to be disappointed when they do not get the concession in this round, that there are opportunities when it comes to other species, and that it is a goal for us to be happy with several species in breeding. In that context, we might learn something from Austen, which actually has up to 200 different species in breeding, while we've had a lot of luck with two. So we have a potential. We have a long way to go, we have great possibilities, we can learn other things, but the jam can teach us something from others as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e172	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e175	The working party’s fisheries policy spokespersons ended in the East – and I think that was quite interesting – with reference to both the number of species and opportunities in the sea and farming. Can this indicate that some of the signals she has received from the East can be transmitted to Norway? For example, in the case of new species in the marine sector – I am not thinking of salmon, but of whitefish/shellfish – would it be appropriate for the Workers' Party to consider removing the current concession scheme for these types of farming species and do as the Right proposes and introduce an authorisation system where the environmental conditions are in place? I assume that it is well known that there are many people who want to get started and who have ambitions and desire to take action in this area as well. The second thing I want to ask is that the representative of Tveiten is trying to reassure today's breeders that you don't have to fear the fees that this industry is going to be charged. One thing is that the majority imposes a fee of five million. kr in order to obtain a farming concession, but the issue of production fees, land taxes and sales taxes is to be addressed, as well as the fidelity – probably impracticable – concept of a 10-year period of commitment. Is it true that there is no point in letting the department start the investigations into the new taxes of the breeder, which, in my opinion, the farming industry has every reason to fear?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e182	I want to start by saying that the Labour Party is serious when we say that we want a breeding industry up and down, with the possibility of developing and exploiting the potential that lies along our coast. We have been a proponent of that, perhaps the most important driver on the authority side at all, we mean something about it, and it will also experience farming in the future. Therefore, I would like to reassure the breeders that the Workers' Party's help is not going to introduce taxes that will make it necessary for the farming industry to develop with great competitive disadvantages. But it's like we have more people who want to use the area along the coast. We have reactions to the fact that concessions that have been granted free of charge can be sold with great foresight for the few who have been so lucky to get this concession in their time. So it has something to do with us managing this on behalf of the community and having the community share. But I want to insist that those who are engaged in Norwegian farming do not have to lie awake at night because they are afraid that the Labour Party will destroy them with fees. So to the question of whether we want to remove today's concession arrangements when it concerns white fish. It is very important for us that we have a balanced development even when it comes to white fish, and that the actors are serious and can be involved for a long time and really create stable jobs. Therefore, we believe that there must be concession arrangements that ensure, for example, that those who are searching can show that they have juveniles that they can raise. We want to keep it -- it's not to put a damper, it's to have a viable development.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e191	The representative Tveiten was concerned that the community had to get its share back. But is it true that today the farming industry is paying its taxes and taxes in line with other industrial activities? We also have a number of special schemes that work in the disfavor of the Norwegian farming industry. I'll mention some of them. They pay 2 pst. customs duties on fresh and frozen fish and 13 pst. on dug and smoked salmon. We have an export charge of 3 pst., and we have special Norwegian production restrictions, such as feed quotas and density regulations. So we all have strangely distorting conditions of competition today. It's fine, now that we have rise times in this industry. But everyone who has followed it knows that it's going up and down, and that our competitors, who have much better framework conditions, are now in the process of positioning. That is when I have to ask the representative, Tweiten, when you want to find out about an area charge, if any, a production fee, and say that this is not to be borne by the farming industry: is it so that when we have a recession in the farming industry in Norway and the margins are very small, then the representative wants to remove or reduce this production tax, in a period when there is a direct impact on the farming industry, i.e. a flexible production or land tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e198	It is true that the farming industry also pays taxes and taxes. It is also true that Norway is subject to excise duties in the sense that we are outside the EU. Norwegian authorities use a lot of power and resources to provide us with better market access. So very much of the answer to the representative Hedstrom is that this depends on what kind of conditions we can get in relation to what is going to be the market for our fish. I see that there are countries that have better framework conditions than Norway, among others. because they are part of a market community that we are outside. There is something the Labour Party has done quite a lot to correct, simply to facilitate active EU applications, which unfortunately have not been the result of which it wanted. When it comes to the question of whether these fees should go up and down in relation to the situation of the farming industry at any given time, it is the wish of the majority that these questions should be dealt with precisely with in order to get all the facts on the table. I think it's a general loss just to see that in the last few years, farming industry has had good ignition. We've had a lot of lean years. I'm very happy that the farming industry feels good money today, it needs it to meet a difficult time in the future. And it's not like the Worker's Party is helping to make them think a penny, so half of them are going to come in to us, for example. But we want to get the question settled, and I feel sure that the Ministry of Fisheries, who knows this industry very well, will do it in a very good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e205	When the representative Rita Tveiten says that she has a burning desire for this industry to move ahead well, it is really easy to believe her. Because there's a lot of weight behind the exposure in relation to it. And then you have in the setting write together based on the desire to get it done. And as the representative Tveiten said, it is also the Christian People's Party's attitude that we should not impose large tax burdens, but at the same time one should look both internationally and nationally at a health. Some then have a land charge or a production charge, therefore it has to be paid out. I have two questions for the Tveiten representative, considering how we will look forward to it, because of course we do not have a position today in relation to whether or not to introduce what is to be distributed. If it were to be a production fee, would the representative Tveiten see it as natural that it would benefit local communities and infrastructure locally? That's the first question. And the second is, is the representative Tveiten agreed that we should see all these charges in context, including the fee that we now decide to impose – that it should also be seen in the larger context when we have received these payments?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e212	Now I've always thought it would be useful to have a certain weight, and I want to put it on in this context as well. When it comes to the question of whether any taxes may go to the community, I would say that we have arrangements in Norway where the state coordinates the income possibilities of the municipalities, so that if such a charge benefits the municipalities directly, it will have the consequence that there will be coordination in the house at a later stage, and I know that there is quite a deal about it and that different governments do. I think it is important precisely because of the questions asked by the representative Lilletun, that we get a total assessment of what is sensible to do, what the consequences of the various measures will be, so that we do not have to charge taxes on this industry that we all want to grow and flourish and develop, that it is done independently and separately. I think it is quite natural that in such a context we have to see all the fees that will be paid under one heading. This must be the purpose. Therefore, I would like to repeat that the farming industry does not need to lose the night sleep of fear that the Labour Party, and I would also dare to tell those who are behind the plural here, will crush this industry with an untimely level when it comes to fees. There's no reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e221	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e224	Breeding is one of our most important growth industries. The most optimistic track that in a few years' time the revenues from this industry will exceed the revenues from the petroleum activity. In addition, unlike the petroleum industry, this industry is based on the management of a renewable resource — yes, it is a thousand-year industry. Such industries are organised today, the volume of production in Norway is regulated by the number of concessions and by feed quotas. The Christian People's Party believes there is still a need to regulate production in the industry. We want a growth, but not an uncontrolled growth. We don't want the industry to experience economic problems again, as it did a few years ago. It has not been given that the economy of this industry will remain as today. We record that the Right Party and the Advance Party want to remove restrictions on the number of concessions and grant freedom of establishment. We don't think this is the way to go. It will affect all those who are already in the industry, and not least those who have paid a high price in recent years to get in. As long as the number of concessions is limited, the one with a concession will be holding a security. The value will vary with the market. The expected income potential will be decisive. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we believe that it is right that the person who receives such a security, and who gets to dispose of areas that initially belong to the community, pays something for it. We have assumed that we will see a payment when granting a concession in connection with any production fee, a resale fee and a land tax. We don't want the industry to be taxed in half. We want to give the industry conditions so that it can evolve further, also in international competition. We are proud that Norwegian aquaculture industry claims to be so good at international level. But we have the opinion that it is a great advantage to be able to see different forms of taxation in the context before drawing a final conclusion as to what type of tax one considers appropriate for this industry of the future. That was the reason why in the budget agreement with the Workers' Party we asked for compensation for the allocation and production. When the proposition we have received in this round concentrates on remuneration by award, it has complicated the negotiations between us. That is why we are pleased that we agree with the Workers' Party to investigate other forms of taxation as well. And let me repeat, it's not supposed to mean that we're taxing in the whole of this industry. This should also be seen in the context of the organisation work that both the municipality and the state must be willing to take forward for this industry. Concessions shall be awarded for the autumn. Those who receive the concessions receive a security. And as a representative said earlier, there will be many who will be disappointed that they will not be granted a concession. It is in itself reasonable for those who are granted a concession to pay. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have been concerned that the fee will not be such an expensive entrance ticket that a number of actors are put on the sideline. That's why we're happy that we've got a maximum price of 5 million. kr. And even more important to us is that we have been told that on specific, objective criteria a lower price should be given. This will, for example: be able to relate to operators who are given obligations in relation to supplies to the local processing industry. With the further processing industry, I understand here the slaughterhouse or further processing of the fish raw material by other means. The lower price criterion may also apply if the concession has been located so as to result in a reduction in market value in itself. This may apply if a person is given obligations in relation to the rearing of new species. This will provide an additional incentive to further develop farming industries from salmon and trout to other species. In combination with other criteria, re-establishment may also be emphasised as an argument for a reduced price. And if we think that this industry should be a forward-looking industry, it must be very important to get more wise heads and more entrepreneurs into the industry. We have in this game basically prioritised the group that has low equity, and we have important district policy arguments to do so. These criteria for price reductions are important elements of the Christian People's Party. It gives us the opportunity to secure the small family businesses in this industry. It allows us to strengthen the local anchoring and facilitate local value creation. First of all, we didn't want an entrance ticket. We wanted primarily a levy on production and resale – or a land tax or a land tax system – and that part of this would be due to the municipalities, which will then be given a considerable responsibility to facilitate this industry. However, the restrictions and discount criteria we have set up have made the remuneration by granting acceptable to us. The Maritime Policy compromise prioritises small and local actors and facilitates concessions for companies with low equity. What was crucial for the Christian People's Party when we accepted remuneration for the award was the restriction on resale. The fact that the concessions – and not the holdings in companies that own the concessions – are not to be traded for the first 10 years after the grant – were incredibly important to us, and indeed crucial. We are convinced that it will ensure greater diversity in nutrition, and that it will strengthen locality, especially when keeping this together with what the centre parties and the Workers' Party agree to focus on when awarding. The concession fee shall be paid to the State in the first instance. We believe this further obliges the State to facilitate this industry to a greater extent in terms of infrastructure such as roads and mobile telephone networks, which is, in fact, a major problem for many in this industry. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have pointed out, among other things: land tax as a possible form of taxation in the future. In this context, we have wanted to look at the possibilities that the municipalities and communities that make land available will also have something left. For example, it would. could contribute to the development of the business of the municipality if the income from any area charge went to a local or regional food fund. These are only ideas that we will send with the Government when this assignment is to be carried out. We do not want a system in which a fee that will fluctuate with the market situation should enter as an ordinary grant for the operation of the municipality. That would be very unfortunate. However, the host municipalities will have a great responsibility for the organisation of the aquaculture industry. They will also be given a great responsibility in resolving the conflicts of use we are now experiencing in the coastal zone increasingly. And there will also be a growing need to coordinate the use of sea areas between municipalities. Our starting point and our scepticism in return for allocation are among other things. linked to the provision of an entry price for the new ones in the industry, while for those who already have a concession it is provided that they are granted an increase in the feed quota free of charge. This discriminates between the established and the new ones for whom we were not enthusiastic. With the centre and the Workers' Party now in agreement, we have substantially reduced this discrimination. We have also established other important principles relating to the award of concessions and to the development of industry. We are therefore satisfied with what is now being majorityed, and believe that the forthcoming concession rounds can contribute to increased value creation and that they can contribute to and strengthen local ownership along the coast. And we very much agree that future growth in this industry must be controlled by new allocations and feed quotas in the ratio of 50 to 50. We think it is incredibly important that we guarantee local ownership of this resource. So I just want to finally make some comments on the proposals that have been submitted from SV. As regards proposal No: 4, we will vote in favour of it, even though it is in principle part of the investigation mission that we have been with and given to the Government, where interest-rate taxation is part of the investigation on production. As regards proposal No: 5, we think it would have been very good to get an investigation into the right of return. We've discussed it in the process. For a certain proportion of these concessions, e.g.: a return condition may be a possible way. The other proposals have more difficulty in voting in favour, and we will vote against them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e270	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e273	In reality, the representative Karlstrom had a strong commitment to his contribution to the introduction of remuneration, and I understand the arguments behind her commitment. I think the representative Karlstrøm must have asked himself the question: What would the Christian People's Party say to a founder, for example, in some outskirts municipality in Finnmark, or another municipality, which could have intended to seek a concession – in, as I said, a typical removal municipality, which is however very suitable for farming – but which does not have 5 million. kr on the inner pocket and are not able to satisfy the many possibilities of having a discount, for reasons of gender, ethnicity, or anyone who wants to start a type of breeding establishment other than to start further processing? What does the representative Karlstrøm answer that might be instead of having 5 million? kr on the inside pocket is sitting with a student loan? This is a system that cultivates the opposite of the representative Karlstrøm is in, talking about the need for local ownership. This is a system that cultivates subtle pastimes of ownership. And what's the magic about the number 35? Why can't you go to the number 50, which the right has suggested as a minimum? It could open up a little more possibilities, for example. in her own home country, where we know that there are many people with knowledge and well-suited locations who might have intended to start breeding salmon.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e284	Now, many of the applicants, many of those who want to get a concession, are going to be disappointed, because there are actually only a few concessions to be awarded, in proportion to how many are interested. And even 50 will many experience as too few. With regard to the balance between increasing the volume of concessions or feed quotas, one also takes into account the fact that if a lot of concessions are awarded, the interest of the strong in the industry will be high in purchasing small companies, because they will have less production growth through feed quotas. So this should be balanced. With regard to the election we had between the Labour Party arrangement, where we got a ceiling of 5 million, and the Right Fringe, the election was fine when we got the tie-up time of 10 years. Whoever has a good head and a concession in his hands and goes to the bank can get a loan to buy such a concession. The pricing of that concession shall also be assessed against what it is possible to raise capital at. I very much believe that with regard to these considerations and assessments to be made when they are to be awarded, one is interested in distributing them in such a way as to create as much as possible in the communities that are given priority. And I believe that in the balances and assessments to be made, priority is given to them with one and two concessions, priority is given to entrepreneurs, priority is given to those who are involved in local processing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e297	The representative Karlstrøm stated that even if you were a small founder in this industry located in the districts and had student loans or whatever, you could only go to a bank and borrow money – 5 million! The representative Karlstrøm also probably knows that there are a lot of other things that need to be invested. You have to bring this forward, it has to stand up and make it competitive. One must have a return on the investment. We know that the industry, although it has gone very well today and for some years, can get into low economic conditions, and it is clear that this will be an extra barrier that the small entrepreneur or industrialist out in the districts must have, and that will of course be much more difficult. I'm questioning how this is in relation to the Christian People's Party's district profile. You do it here – at least as I see it, and many will see it – more difficult for the entrepreneurs in the districts, and especially the small ones, to establish themselves. We also know that the Christian People's Party has at least expressed the desire to have a varied structure in this industry. Will it not now be easier for the larger and more resource-intensive to develop, and will it not be possible to have the ring-fences that the Christian People's Party wants in the districts? That's the one. I'm also a little surprised at the shift in line that the Christian People's Party has done in the matter, for earlier, as I understood it, they were relatively strongly opposed to a remuneration arrangement. Now they're defending it, they're talking about 5 million. kr and to charge land charges. I would like an explanation of what is the basis for that line break.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e306	There must be a logical flaw here, because after reading the setting, your representative Hedstrom will cancel the entire concession scheme and thus really facilitate the big and the strong. I have been very concerned that the entrepreneurs will have the opportunity to get into the industry, and I believe that we have also agreed to open the door so that that is exactly what will happen. We have now managed for the second time to stop the proposal on auctioning – it is now dead and buried – and we have received a prize. I've talked to a lot of people in the industry who say, "Yes, we can pay $5 million." kr, there is no problem, but we know about someone who lives further out, who will have problems. But then I say yes, but we've given priority to them and to those criteria that we've actually given priority to the low equity group. Yes, but in fact this system is well-edible in terms of regional policy! We have to be aware that what was on the table, and what has been the discussion, has been a distribution of these concessions at the prices of $10 million, and we have now got a system in which we can actually target these concessions that can create as much district policy as possible and provide as much local value creation as possible. We have also ensured that the values we invest in these societies will remain in these societies for ten years to come. And that time we need to think about and figure out how to manage this resource in the best possible way for the society of Norway and for Coastal Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e315	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e318	The Government will amend the Breeding Act in order to introduce a system of remuneration for the award of new rearing concessions for salmon and trout. The background to the proposal is to provide opportunities for new actors to establish themselves in the farming industry through the granting of 30 to 35 new farming concessions for salmon and trout for the autumn. The Contracting Party will oppose the Government's proposal for compensation for the authorisation of fish for the production of salmon and trout. That means that we disagree with the leadership of the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties in the setting of this. We also do not want to open up land and production charges. Since there is no shortage of sites or resources for these species, in the long term there will be no type of resource interest rate in this area. The breeding industry pays back to society in the same way as other industries, and there is no basis for introducing remuneration or additional taxation. The existence of a willingness to pay and a market price for breeding concessions is not a curious phenomenon. This is related to a number of factors, such as: business economic assessments, strategy and price expectations. It is also important that there are restrictions on the granting of new authorisations and that the number of operating companies for the rearing of salmon and trout is decreasing. But this does not give any reason to impose a fee. For example, none of the competing countries, such as Chile or Scotland, have introduced the kind of remuneration in question — although they also have some arrangements, overall the framework conditions are much better. A remuneration could help to maintain the high concession prices in Norway so that they remain at a strange level, which would weaken competitiveness in the long term. It will also help to drain the industry of important equity. The Party considers that there are too strict conditions for the granting of a licence for farming and that it is detrimental to the industry. It would then be much better to liquidate or liberalise this legislation. Both this year and last year, companies authorised to breed salmon and trout have received more than 20 pst. higher production capacity due to increased feed quotas, equivalent to more than 150 new concessions — in two years. I'm not going to know if this is a sensible and responsible growth of production according to our international commitments in this context, but it shows that there is room for expansion, and that it is possible to change policies and practices. New creations of a certain scale could have positive effects, not least in terms of improving international competitiveness. Remuneration for a limited number of new permits may have an adverse effect. The Party of Progress wants primarily to have the Breeding Act repealed and replaced by a liberal authorisation system. The restrictions shall be those resulting only from contamination and veterinary considerations. We've always been against having a fish farming concession system. Here we are in line with the Food Law Committee, which proposed to repeal the Breeding Act. Some of the reasons for the sample were that this could be done without conflicting with the desire for business activity in the districts. Firstly, the industry is already established in many places along the coast. Secondly, natural conditions for setting up in rural areas, without regulation. Thirdly, other regulations, for example: disease legislation, do not allow an adverse concentration of the activity. We therefore feel that we are on a safe basis when we have a proposal to repeal this law. The aim must be to establish liberal mechanisms that make it attractive to invest labour and capital in this growth industry – this is what this is all about – and then it will be strengthened. There will be no majority in this Chamber to repeal the Breeding Concession Act. Our subsidiary position is to liberalise the concession terms and transfer the concession authority to the individual municipality. In this context, it is appropriate to consider whether municipalities should be encouraged to facilitate breeding activities through a compensation scheme. I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party, referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e335	The representative Hedstrøm has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e340	Now, once again, we have a concession scheme in Norway for salmon and aure farming. The representative Hedstrom indicated that there will not be any number in this room to cancel the scheme. He's right in it, it'll probably be there for quite a while. The representative Hedstrom also stated that the market situation would be difficult for us for quite a long time to come. In the light of these two findings, it might be interesting to hear the representative Hedstrøm's assessment of how to defend and explain to those who live along the coast, who will never be able to obtain a farming concession, that the person who is lucky enough to get close to a lottery ticket with guaranteed winnings from the state, should not be able to pay anything for it even so that they can sell it and discard the prize. According to the representative Hedstrøm, is it a fair arrangement? I'm not asking this question from a background of envy, but assuming that there must be some justice for those who live in this country, for a concession paper is after all a good thing that few of us get to operate in an area that is basically the community's own.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e347	This question is relatively easy for me to answer. Any regulation, any restriction or restriction, any charge, any cost will of course be easier to deal with for them with resources. You can never be so competent, live in the districts, have knowledge, etc., but you will never be able to overcome it in relation to the great in terms of competence, capital and other values – the inputs that need to be put in to develop a breeding concession – as long as you have that scheme. The more such schemes the Labour Party and other parties are involved, the more difficult they make it for the small woman and man in the districts who wants to establish themselves as a founder or industrialist in the farming industry. I read something interesting in the evening post yesterday, written by Professor Ottar Brox. It's not often the Progress Party and I agree with Ottar Brox, but here we actually agree, and I'd like to quote what he writes: ‘There is a great deal of disagreement in the Storting about the price of new aquaculture concessions. But rather, our elected representatives should take the chance of throwing the entire pill-stained concession system on the scrappowder of history. ... It is very likely that many young people with sound practices in aquaculture would find it profitable to start off on their own if the concession system is located where it belongs – on the scrappowder of history. Today, the agencies of the industry complain about poor recruitment to the farming profession. It is easy to imagine that the reason is the same as in coastal fishing: when the possibility of getting your own boat or your own mares is closed by the state bureaucracy, the interest in fishing or aquaculture barriers goes to zero.’ Here, in fact, Brox and the Progress Party agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e361	The lead party is primarily concerned with the winding-up of the concession scheme, which is then to be replaced by a liberal authorisation system. There can be no doubt that this must lead to a rather large establishment of farming activity along the coast, which in turn will lead to an increase in the volume of farming – of course – and more fish on the market. Is it the case that this proposal is made under given conditions, such as: the assumption that we are a member of the European Union and can do it that way? Or is it that the salmon agreement that we have today is an agreement that you should not take into account? We know well in history what happened, with dumping complaints due to overproduction in relation to the market and low prices, which led to action against Norway. Does the representative Hedstrøm see that a free establishment can have such consequences? Or is his proposal promoted on the assumption that we are a member of the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e369	As I mentioned earlier, we in the Progress Party are not only in agreement with Ottar Brox in this case, but also with the Industry Law Committee, which said that it was in place to repeal this concession law. They said that a good few years ago, with weighty reasons. I'm not going to get more into it in a short reply. But I think the representative Kongshaug in his line to me as Left-Man and Liberals sees very big problems and not opportunities. We know that the salmon agreement expires next year, and you should have an offensive attitude by the Norwegian authorities to make the market work. We cannot ignore the fact that there are certain protectionists in the EU who want to continue a certain restriction, but I believe – and have opinions on it on behalf of the Progress Party – that through negotiations we should make the market work. We can, for example: negotiate the exchange of market access for European food products for market access for Norwegian fish and Norwegian farmed salmon. I have been following the economic policy of the Left for many years, and I do not understand that an adaptation to the production and marketing of farmed fish through public authorities is not doomed to failure. Administrations could never have safe knowledge or better assumptions to assess market developments than industry itself. That is why we want to make proposals in line with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, among other things. have said, to repeal this law and leave it to the experts. The regulations and mechanisms adopted by the authorities over many years have not worked in the right direction, and we should therefore try something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e378	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e381	I have called what is being put forward today for a breakthrough for a new aquaculture policy. I'm so optimistic that I think it's going to be so that we're going to focus on local ownership and on local value creation as the basis for settlement along the coast, where we have the phenomenal resources, because it's the coastal zone that's the resource. This conversion of aquaculture policy should have taken place five years ago. I have had many positive reactions to what we have done in the Business Committee on this matter. I'm sure we're going to have a long line of applicants among the priority groups that we've said are going to get these concessions. We're going to have a long queue, not because so many have saved up 5 million. DKK or 10 million. However, because they see the possibilities here, and because those who can provide them with funding see the good opportunities. It's a pleasure that we've now decided that it's going to be distributed up to 40 new concessions. There have been many waiting for a very long time. We have a great coast with many opportunities, we have competent people who have learned this with breeding, and we have people with optimism. We have a situation where the fish produced is welcome in the big markets, and we have a good salesman who really manages to sell our farmed fish. It is gratifying that it will not be freely available to resell these concession papers with great profit, with the result that ownership is moved away from the rocks to blank polished facades in large cities. A concession in 2001 gives the right to breed on a site, not a right to resell it as a security of tens of millions. This ensures local ownership. We have set a 10-year limit on the resale of a concession and of shares in the companies involved. The system of local ownership brings the gain back to creating other activities or even more of the same. It creates new jobs, and hopefully we'll start breeding more species by reinvesting this money. And the municipalities will get their tax income from the jobs. So it's like there's a lot of competition about these valuable areas. Therefore, it is important that tax revenue is returned to the municipalities, and that the residents there see that this is going to happen again. This with a local ownership relationship shall be a permanent requirement for the new concessions. I come from a municipality where we have got new owners into the last few years of the period when it has been to make the best possible purchase to the large companies, and it has not been in any way – in any way – positive. We have lost many, many jobs, the attitude towards the farming industry has changed, it has become more negative, and there has been much worse results in the farming industry. It's a pleasure that those who are now going to get these concessions are the ones who haven't made it a living to buy and sell concessions. It is those who have rejected the offer and who have refused to sell out and end up with what they have been so engaged in, who are now going to get these concessions. And they're going to sign up for more – I'm sure. They've been running well, they've gone their evening rounds to make sure the plant is doing well, and they've been running with their family. One of the things we have to do in the future is make the generational shift easier for those who have valuable facilities. Achieving the inheritance tax at such generational shifts should be an objective for the coming period. The fact that those are the ones who get the new concessions is the best guarantee against the smart resales that the opponents of this scheme write about in the newspapers by day. And I would like to stress to the Council of State that it is important that the Storting's intentions not to resell the concessions in the first decade are followed up. So there's going to be concessions for some newly established people. And there's a need for recruitment, and there's a need for an opportunity for those who start school, to get their own facilities and start on their own. It might be the small processing companies that get a concession in addition to their plant, which creates most new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e400	First, I would like to address the proposals that have been distributed in the Chamber. SV also sees that there are great opportunities in the farming industry in the future, and that is why we are very concerned about taking care of the environment in which this farming industry is going to live, so that it has opportunities for the future, and so that no harm happens. We are pleased with most of what comes from the majority in the case, and we support the majority's position. We agree that a new concession should not be transferred in the first ten years. Swallow if we see that there are absolute problems related to the transfer of property and the transfer of concession in this industry, we want to give the ministry the task of trying to get this done. When it comes to the discussion of what to charge — most people agree that some of the added value should be included in the community in some way, and that the area and areas of the community that can be taken advantage of are seized here — it is suggested that a land cost should be allocated and also that a concession resale fee should be paid. SV has a proposal asking the Government to provide an analysis of the level of basic interest income in the breeding industry. The representative, Karlstrøm, said in her statement that she believed that this was the committee's mission to the Government, and that this was part of the thinking. If that's the case, obviously SV is very satisfied with it, and is going to draw the proposal. But it would have been nice to get comments on it, for example. by other representatives of the majority or of the Council of State, so that we can clarify this issue. SV sees it that if you get a thorough analysis of this and get a look at the different possibilities, it can also be possible in the long run to get away from a system of remuneration, that is, to look at taking income when there is a surplus, and not in advance. There are also minor problems in relation to what has been said here that some people may have difficulties in raising enough capital to get into the industry. We have also made a proposal to investigate the right of return, which we believe is necessary. If you have a system of compensation, you also have to take the consequences of investigating such a right of return. We want it to be assessed, because we think you can deal with the situation of resale and who is going to benefit from these concessions in a better way than you can with today's system. SV has no desire now to decide on the number of new concessions to be awarded. We want an environmental impact assessment to be available first for the areas where farming is to be carried out. As a result, we think it is more right to decide. Then, as the majority say, it can both become fewer and, in fact, more concessions. It is in the SV's opinion that the environment should limit this. In the case of opening in order to be able to breed salmon in Neiden and Tana, SV is very sceptical about it. We have discussed the matter before. We want to put a brake on it and wait until the salmon commission's suspension has been finally processed. We also promote proposals for Section 6 new third paragraph. We do that because we believe that an environmental impact assessment of the permits will be carried out before it can be opened up for food fish farming. We are aware of the need to have approved coastal zone plans for these areas, and have looked at what lies within them a little bit. In our view, it seems that environmental status is currently well taken into account, but it is difficult to see that such coastal zone plans, as they are now, take into account the potential additional burden of farming. In order for this to go well, we want to have such an addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e419	Karin Andersen has addressed the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e422	Norway has the best natural conditions in the world to produce clean, healthy food from the sea in a sustainable way. We export seafood to more than 150 countries, and nothing indicates that we have reached the top. The value added potential of the marine industries is probably worth several hundred billion dollars. The left and the other parties in the central government took many important initiatives to develop the aquaculture industry. Marine farming was flashed out as one of our four important research areas. A good marine environment is a fundamental prerequisite for growth in the aquaculture industry. The industry itself has made great environmental progress in the last decade, but there are still important environmental challenges such as the escape and release of copper. Nevertheless, the external threats are clearly the most serious. The Left expects, for the sake of the entire Coastal Norway, that the Government does its utmost to prevent the opening of shipments of radioactive waste along the Norwegian coast and to stop the radioactive emissions from the UK recovery facility Sellafield. Not only are these environmental threats serious in themselves, but they can also damage Norway’s reputation as an exporter of pure food. In the course of the budgetary procedure, the Left was in a position to say no to farming auctions in fear that it would only be the capital strengths that reached the allocation. For the Left, it is important that the aquaculture industry has a diversified and varied ownership and framework conditions that ensure new start-ups, new ideas and new operational concepts. Breeding activities must continue to accommodate entrepreneurs who burn for new ideas and where the owner is active and linked to the community. Breeding is one of our most important district industries, perhaps the most important one. Breeding concessions shall be used for local value creation and shall not be a speculative object. There has been an overall objective for the majority of the Committee. In this new award, up to 40 concessions if the Ministry considers it appropriate, it is possible to secure both existing operations and to obtain significant local value creation. This may be done by granting concessions to those linked to local processing companies. One concession now, in addition to the one or two from which they already have, could lead to a rational size of the business, in view of the stability of the employees and a smooth supply of raw material for any related further processing company. In awarding, it is also important to take into account applicants wishing to develop new species and applicants wishing to participate in and run the industry in the future through their willingness and good ideas. When the majority makes a commitment to the concessions, it is assumed that when an applicant has obtained an exclusive right from the big society to breed, that right shall not be resold as a commercial speculation object. I'm recording that a minority wants to award 50 new concessions. No one can say with certainty what is the correct figure in relation to the future market and future production. The problem is that today's concessions will only give fish to the market in almost three years' time. That's why it's important to be responsible. No one has benefited from a new situation of overproduction, fall in prices and dumping charges. The one who doesn't learn from history is in danger of getting it repeated, it's a saying that's called. The majority have learned from history and are responsible for the number of new allocations. It is and will be a strong pressure on our coastal areas. It must be a clear pre-condition for the award of new concessions that the location has been clarified through the municipality's maritime area plan. There may in many cases be conflicts in land use at sea. The Norwegian people have culture and traditional rights in relation to relatively free movement at sea. Municipalities that facilitate breeding and have concessions in their sea area should be able to obtain compensation for this. This needs to be examined in more detail, for which the majority is in favour. For the left, it is signaled that the compensation shall be low, even so low that it is subordinated to competition. Furthermore, it is important that the compensation goes to municipalities, and as such is a driving force for the organisation of good breeding sites and good plans leading to involvement in the local environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e441	The next speaker is the Council of State Otto Gregussen. The President notes that, according to the President's papers, the Council of State has a speaking time of 5 minutes. The Labour Party has several minutes left of its allocated speaking time, and the President will therefore propose that the Council of State should have 10 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e444	Thank you, President! Values from the sea are Norway's future. With joint efforts, we will realise the value creation potential of the aquaculture industry. In this work, the Government and the Storting have a joint responsibility to ensure that the aquaculture industry is given stable, long-term and predictable framework conditions. The approach of the Business Committee contributes in several ways to providing predictability for business operators. In particular, I would like to emphasise the principle that annual growth should be divided approximately equally between the increase in the feed quota and the award of new concessions. This is an important clarification that gives greater predictability as to the possibility of growth in existing concessions in the coming years. The suspension of the Economic and Social Committee reflects the continuation of the current policy on aquaculture. As with previous concession awards, the main part of the award criteria follows the provision of Section 6(a) of the Breeding Act, namely that the activity should contribute to a positive development in the district and to the industry. The allocation framework drawn up by the Committee is essentially a continuation of past practice, both in terms of the award criteria and the binding of concessions to each municipality. I dare say that investing in aquaculture through research and business development is the best investment we can make to develop business and secure viable communities along the coast. In this context, new salmon and trout concessions provide for the creation and development of existing businesses. I aim to ensure that draft allocation rules can be sent to the hearing at the end of June. If everything goes according to plan, the regulation may be adopted at the end of the month of August/September and the concessions will be published during September. The counties concerned will play an important role in the geographical distribution of concessions in each State. I aim to ensure that, in the run-up to the award of the concessions, we will have a dialogue with the states concerned with a view to awarding the concessions to areas where they will be most socially useful. Remuneration for concessions is a new element of aquaculture policy. This presents new challenges for the management of the forthcoming round of allocations. Binding time requirements will ensure that concessions do not become speculative objects but are allocated to actors with an intention of active operation and further development of the aquaculture industry. Concession-related binding time must be assumed to be an effective barrier to structural adjustment in the industry associated with these concessions. The Committee has given instructions for a period of 10 years. This is a tightening of the conditions for binding that have been practised in the past. For example, at the re-allocation in Troms and Finnmark: The binding time was set at three years. However, ten years is relatively long for an industry like this. If we go back ten years in the history of salmon and trout tops, we will see that it has been both very good and very skinny years. If recent developments lead to problems related to e.g.: access to capital, corresponding to the situation which led to the amendment of the law in 1991, I assume that this would be such a special situation as to allow the Ministry of Fisheries to make a derogation from the time limit. However, this is not a signal of any kind of weakening of the commitment of the majority of the Grand Duchy. The remuneration shall be of 5 million. kr per. concession. Deductions shall be made on the basis of objective criteria. The Economic and Social Committee gives an example of such criteria, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t binding on local processing establishments obligations in relation to the development of new species of localisation It would be of great importance for professionals that the remuneration is known already in the case of a concession application. I would therefore suggest that differentiation of remuneration is made by declaring the concessions on the basis that, in order to be considered, the economic operator has to meet certain objective criteria which also provide a basis for reduced remuneration. This way we can make sure that the price per cent. concession becomes objectively correct in relation to an initial price of 5 million. kr, at the same time as providing predictability to the economic operator with respect to the price per year. concession. I would also like to take the opportunity to inform the Storting that today – this morning – I received a new so-called opening letter from ESA regarding the breeding law and the local connection. In the new letter of opening, ESA maintains its previous position, but with some other reason. This time it is claimed that this is a breach of Article 40, i.e. the rules on the free movement of capital. We will also get two months to reply to this letter this time. I am concerned that new salmon concessions will help us make use of the entire coast. The concessions will therefore go to areas of Norway where there is a high potential for aquaculture but little activity today. Already in St.meld. No 33 for 1999-2000, it was stated that the Government would not follow the decision of the Villax Committee to ban the rearing of salmon and trout throughout eastern Finland. The proposal of the Villax Committee on a non-farming zone throughout East Finland will be proposed by two zones, in the Tanafjord and in the fjord system outside the Near Watercourse. This is essentially consistent with today's so-called securing zones. This implies that it is both possible and highly likely that East Finland will benefit from new salmon and trout farming concessions. The Economic and Social Committee asks the Ministry to clarify a system of area charges or production levies, as well as charges for the resale of concessions. Such excise duties on the aquaculture industry raise several principal legal, economic and political issues. I believe that the issue of the industry’s tax burden should be subject to an overall review, where one looks at the total tax burden on the aquaculture industry. In this work, an existing excise duty such as export duty and R & D duty must also be taken into account. I believe that such an investigation can best be carried out under the authority of a public authority. An entirely natural starting point for such an investigation will be an assessment of whether or not ground interest arises in the industry. Odelstingen is currently examining proposals for a change to the Breeding Act to allow remuneration for the granting of concessions for food fish farming of salmon and trout. Although the award of new salmon and trout concessions is an important issue, we must also focus on the fact that the aquaculture industry deals with much more than salmon and trout. Approximately 35 new concessions shall be granted in the current year. It goes without saying that this is not enough for all coastal municipalities to be satisfied in the first place. Although there will be regular concession awards in the years ahead, no one should sit down passively and wait for the next concession award. I am convinced that in the future shellfish and marine fish such as halibut, cod and cinderfish will form an increasingly important part of the aquaculture industry. In these parts of the aquaculture industry, what I've been preparing in an interpellation debate on 19 May last year is almost free establishment. When I say almost freedom of establishment, this is due, among other things, to: that the health, environmental and other uses of the site are to be assessed before the concession to aquaculture activities can be granted. I would like to encourage municipalities and business operators to join forces to start business in new areas. We've got new aquaculture adventures ahead of us – we're about to seize the opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e490	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e493	There is a criterion for discounting local processing, and I want the minister to deepen his understanding of it a little bit. I said in my post that including this, as I understand it, is also the slaughterhouse, which too many regions might be the only way to drive processing. As for the game between what should be the basis for a discount and what is the priority target, I become somewhat uncertain when the minister says that the call should be made in relation to the objective criteria, including: the group having one to two concessions is not mentioned. So if the minister could elaborate a little bit more on the game between the two factors, the one that goes on the criterion of discount, and the other that goes on which target group is prioritised. Because we have in several things here in the hall prioritised the group with one to two concessions, those that run processing and entrepreneurs, i.e. the low equity group. I'd like to have a deepening of those two points.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e500	The point I would like to make in relation to the link between criteria and value was that if you want to be neat in this process, you have to agree on the criteria to be prioritized and the criteria to be able to give a discount on the price; those things should be reasonably linked. And then I thought – and still believe – that it is right to say in advance that the criterion should give the basis for a discount like this and so on. One criterion may be, as the representative Karlstrøm said, that other local processing is being carried out. There may be a slaughterhouse, as she says, but there may also be other fishing activities, such as: a fillet holding, shellfish farming plant or other objects. It must be possible to give weight to this in a way. The same applies to the fact that you already have one or two concessions. If you find that this is objectively something that also means that the prices of these concessions should be lower, you should clarify this in advance, explain it objectively, so that this is known when the announcement takes place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e506	It may not be possible to conclude that the Council of State has suffered some total defeat on the road from being an active driver in order to introduce an auction system in connection with the award of breeding concessions – in that the one who pays the most – to get the prize in many ways to be rescued by the gong by dragging Opseth into the fold by referring to the unfortunate budget agreement that says that one ends up with a so-called remuneration. Pikant is almost at present being told that ESA is once again referring to Article 40, where the allocation procedures that the majority parties have set up are almost wiped out with a pen stroke if ESA gets what they want. First of all, there were many cross-cutting considerations that did not make sense. So that way you could say that it would be impossible to reach the goal. I have two questions for the Council of State. The first is that several speakers from the Centre and the Workers' Party have referred to the fact that the farming industry is not to be taxed and taxed in its entirety. Now, as you know a limit somewhere, from being at the highest point of view to not being able to breathe any more. But where does the Council of State set the limit for where the farming industry is going to meet its breathing problem? That was point 1. Point 2: The lease agreement with the EU expires on approx. a year. What kind of strategy has the Government put forward in the meetings/negotiations with the EU in connection with the salmon agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e517	First of all, the question of the new thing that has come from ESA. This is kind of a formal process. There has been one objection – which is not the same as this – based on Article 31. A different objection based on Article 40 has now been raised. We cannot draw the conclusion in advance that ESA's assessment of this is correct. The last thing they came with, we've disputed, and we have two months to answer this. Of course, it's impossible to answer a question of where the limit goes when someone is taxed in whole. It's also almost uninteresting when you don't have the intention to do so, but the intention is to ensure that, through all the instruments in the industry, you get a living and viable nourishment. I would also like to say that one should not simply assume that all public intervention and action is to the disfavor of the industry, for example. the money you charge for the so-called marketing fees. This has just been published, the effect of the community taking a roof. And the effect is good, it's positive. You get 2 kroner left for the industry for each crown you have invested in marketing through a charged fee. Our strategy to get rid of the salmon agreement is to create the best possible, the best predictable, conditions for the industry. We are running a process of analysing the impact of what has happened, where we look at what measures might be available instead of this. No one should believe that the salmon agreement was voluntary, it was a coercion. Now we're going to look for constructive ways to get on with this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e528	I will continue in the same track as Kristiansen and where he escaped when it came to the salmon agreement that expires next year. The positive outcome of this agreement has probably been, on the basis of the signals I have received, that it has given a certain amount of rest and certain foreseeable framework conditions, and the feed quotas have been the regulatory mechanism. But there has been quite a formidable cost to the industry overall, among other things. with reporting. We also know that the minimum prices have been negligent with the world market, and we have had the famous export fee of 3 pst. Now there are many in the industry who hope – including the Council of State and the Government – that we can bring this agreement to zero next year and get the most free market for our products, competition on the most equal terms possible, and I understand that the Government is making certain pre-post-fects in order to get the best possible result for Norway next year. But what could be interesting to hear is whether you have received some signals from the EU if you still want an agreement, and whether there are certain ‘things’ you could do to soften this establishment in order to improve market access for Norwegian salmon.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e537	I think it is right to say that most Norwegian salmon industry is satisfied that they got the salmon agreement, because it has actually worked well for us. In the lifetime of the agreement, we have the power to increase both the volume of the Norwegian farming industry and the price at the same time. That is extraordinary, and we should be very pleased with that. The minimum price has been negligent for a very short period of time, but we have actually – through the salmon agreement – been able to raise the price. Of course, we have discussed with the EU what the continuation of this should be. But the situation is actually that you have a formal code that kind of controls what the continuation can be. We are condemned for dumping, and the salmon agreement is a substitute for this. The salmon agreement was preferred over approx. 14 pst. That's great. When this regime, valid for five years, expires, there will automatically be a so-called ‘review’ where the situation is being reviewed and whether dumping has taken place. As I've said before in this room, there's a bit of a strange logic in dumping matters. In fact, if the measure has been effective, it has been shown to have been dumped. That's not a reasonable condition for the accused, but that's the way it is. But it is clear that we need to run a process with the European Commission and with the parties who put this matter on the table, namely Scottish and Irish fish farmers. I can assure you that we are in good dialogue with them. I can also assure them that they are aware of the cards they have on their hands. We must then do the preparations we can to replace the current system with something that is freest for Norwegian aquaculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e549	I think Gregussen is a very lucky state councillor. There is optimism in the aquaculture industry, and exciting opportunities exist along the coast. Although there is little fish left in traditional fish, it is worse in other countries that we are close by. And then he's so lucky that he's got a big deal to make sure he doesn't get the floor because he's the one who put in auctions for salmon concessions! He has now come into a situation where he is in a party with those who live in the spring, and who want to start again, those who have striven a little, but who have not sold their concessions, who have started, and who are very happy about what has happened. I want to ask the Council of State if there are anyone who has approached him among those who belong to the priority groups, and said that now we are moving; we will not stand in line because of what the Industry Committee has said in this matter. So a little over to the consideration to be determined relatively quickly before this award is to be made. There are objective criteria that should be able to provide a discount, and that is probably among other things. Because ESA is looking out for us, that we have to be careful about what to focus on, and how much that discount is going to be. I would think it is absolutely necessary to also exploit the gambling space so that in other similar cases one might later say that there are objective criteria on which we are based. I would think that those who deserve a discount most, and who should have it, are the ones who start all over again. It's those who take the greatest risk, those who are not already in the process, who have a small equity, and who start in a new place. Do the councils agree? And can he then suggest how much discount such a newcomer should be able to get?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e558	I would like to say that I have always felt like a party with those who are born and live in the spring. And I think it's nice for the majority of the Storting to feel a responsibility for them too. I have not registered that someone has withdrawn from their interest in obtaining new aquaculture concessions as a result of the majority voting held here. And to be honest, it was just supposed to be missing! So over to which criteria to give what discount. It is very important that the representative, Mr Lund, points out that these should be objective, so that they do not represent a risk of anyone getting involved in this. I agree with the representative, Mr Lund, that re-establishment might be the most at risk. But then the risk will vary with where the start-up takes place. It could also vary with the other criteria attached to it. If, for example: both are located far from other activities, are novices and e.g. will undertake an obligation to start breeding other species, it should give rise to a fairly large discount. But for me at this point in time to assume to specify the discounts in dollars or percentages, it is unfortunately not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e567	First, I want to thank the Council of State for clarifying the issue of basic interest income, that it becomes a natural part of the basis of calculation that lies with the Government. That is why I have reason to draw proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox But I need to ask the Council of State some questions. It's about what he brought up about the new concession award, and now they're going to get there that they socially would be most useful. I could then imagine asking the Council of State if he shares SV's view that it is natural that North Norway is granted in a special way, because they have both a prerequisite and also a great need to get a large share of the new concessions? Then I would also ask the Council of State to assess the environmental requirements of the coastal zone plans, if the Council of State considers them to be good enough and will be so in the future when the number of concessions increases. Does the Council of State see the need in some areas to strengthen the environmental side of the farming industry in the future? Finally, if the Council of State gets time, I'll ask him to go a little bit closer to the situation in East Finland and say a little bit about the Government's plans to develop the farming industry there. SV is very concerned about the situation there and has in principle agreed with the Villaks Committee. It was not quite clear to this representative at least what was really in the Council of State’s decision as to how the Government intends to develop the farming industry in East Finland?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e578	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e581	As I said in my post, we want to emphasise that concessions are to be awarded where there are few from before, and where they do great social benefit. Such areas are everywhere, in all parts of the country, but they are actually especially in North Norway. There we have the largest areas that are not used at all. To clarify this, the Rieber-Mohn Committee's proposal that the whole of East Finland be peaced is also a little of the basis for this. We have come to the conclusion that this is not necessary. In our opinion, it cannot be defended for the sake of wild game population, and it is then irrational to impose this type of restriction on a future industry. That is why it is likely that there will be restrictions in Tanafjord and in an area around Neiden, which is also reflected in my written reply to the Committee. Otherwise, it'll be free. In the case of environmental requirements, environmental protection requirements are set for each concession, for each locality, which is permitted. An emission permit is granted based on what is expected to affect the surrounding environment. I also said in my agricultural policy statement some time ago that we are going to change the system according to how we exploit the concessions, by taking account mainly of the environmental pressures caused by a farm. This can be easily measured in the installation, around the installation and far from the installation. You do that by looking at the bottom fauna, what conditions of life it has. It is a better system than today's system, which is bounded by a volume. It will also provide fish farmers with a better opportunity to ensure that each fish has the space it needs to thrive and be well-infested.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e590	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e595	Like many in this room, the Christian People's Party is interested in the good living conditions for healthy development in the future. It is not as some have claimed in this debate that Norway should have poorer framework conditions than other countries. The Norwegian coast is unique in nature when it concerns natural conditions for aquaculture. The Industry Committee was visiting Canada three years ago. There the Committee had, among other things: meeting with Norwegian operators in this industry. One said it like this: the coast of Canada and Alaska could be good for farming, but there don't live people, and there's no road on our coast, like in Norway! Norway is unique in this area. It's carrying people on the coast, and here's the infrastructure. The production of feed is becoming one of the key factors in the natural development of nutrition. The development of the cultivation of fish feed on Norwegian soils is in the starting pit. This costs money, but it provides an incredibly large development potential. Opening new concessions is a reasonable position. But near the past has shown us that a concession is not automatically equal to success. This is demanding, and the pits are many. This case is a good example, I thought, that one thing is found to be the solution in Stortinget. The auction is rejected, and the framework conditions will be met by the producers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e609	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 791]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e623	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 15 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e634	Let me start with some forms. I would like to be allowed to fix something in the setting. On page 3, in point 2.2, the comments of the Committee, the parties which support the majority wish one in the 10th line to delete ‘and the like’. This is not a premise for the decision that will be taken after this debate. At the same time, I will also be allowed to raise proposal No. 3, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, which have been distributed in the Chamber, and state that this is a proposal that is contrary to the Committee's recommendation in the vote. The majority who are behind the recommendation in the setting have drawn this and assume instead that they are in favour of proposal No. 3 during the part-session. The background to these formalities is that when the committee gave its decision, we did not agree on how Section 6 of the Foreign Affairs Act was to be formulated, nor would there be a clear majority in voting for what was at the heart of the question, namely what types of work permits should be allowed to apply for from Norway if one had first legally resided here. The dispute has stood between what the Government proposed, that one should only be able to apply for a work permit as a specialist, while the other parties that are now behind proposal No. 3, also wanted other groups to be able to apply for a work permit. In practice, seasonal work can be applied for in Norway today. The background to the whole amendment proposal in Section 6 is the desire to remove what I would call some of the Molbo rules in Norwegian legislation, which has given a number of examples of people who have come here because they have been interested in learning Norwegian, or have wanted to see what Norway is like, and who have actually had a competence we wanted to use in a situation where we lack labour, have not had the opportunity to apply for a work permit from Norway, because the law has specified that when you come from a country outside the EEA territory you must apply from your country. That is why we are pleased with the amendment of the law that is being passed today. We are pleased that we finally reached an agreement on a paragraph that means that we do not get that type of mole book examples in the future – at least to a considerably less extent. There may be some point where some assessments of this type also appear in the future. The starting point for the Right has been that at the beginning of the session this year we have presented four proposals in Document No. 8:4 on liberalisation and easier labour migration. One of the four proposals was the proposal to amend the Foreign Affairs Act in order to allow applications to be made for employment permits from Norway. At the same time, the government has in its work to liberalize and make it easier to apply for a work permit, among other things. to remedy the UDI in its workload, proposed a number of changes, one of which is equal to one of the amendments proposed by the Right in Document No. 8:4, which we dealt with in March, and as the majority who are now behind the changes in Section 6, at the time, gave their principal agreement, namely that one should be allowed to apply from Norway. This probably does not mean that many more people come to Norway because they are allowed to apply from Norway. It means, first of all, that we've made it easier, better and a little easier for people who first have an interest in Norway to find out if this is a country in which they can imagine working. In fact, in our view, it is reasonably important in a situation where we lack labour, and where we need to be attractive to all types of labour if we are to ensure that we create both greater economic growth and better development in the years to come. The second proposal on which this position is based relates to the follow-up to our membership of the Schengen Agreement and the Dublin Convention, namely the detention of fingerprints for the police for registration with Eurodac. In the opinion of the majority – and here the lines of division in the Committee are broadly in line with the lines of division that were in the case of the Schengen Agreement and the Dublin Convention – this is an essential and good instrument that we need, among other things. to ensure that we are protected against so-called asylum shopping, so that we can concentrate our resources on the asylum treatment of those who are actual asylum seekers for the first time in Norway, and that we do not experience what we experience from time to time, that people have previously applied for both two and three countries that have fairly equal rules. I would like to stress that this does not mean that we are changing the Norwegian asylum policy legislation, but that we are finding that there is a need for coordination of these rules in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e653	The representative Erna Solberg has taken up the proposal to which she referred. As far as the President understands, the representative has drawn up the proposal for amendments to Section 6 of the Minutes. The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e660	I'm just going to say, like Erna Solberg, who was very satisfied with what we are about to adopt, that we also share the satisfaction that the changes in Section 6 of the Foreign Affairs Act now have a slightly different design. At the same time, I would like to distance myself from the expression used by the representative of Solberg in relation to parts of the rules, namely that it was «molbo rules». I don't think it's appropriate to apply it to the laws and regulations that we've made here in Stortinget, but sees that some laws and regulations are needed to be renewed and adapted to a slightly different reality. Since we have now changed the vote, I would like to draw proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox All parties, except the Advance Party, are behind this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e671	The representative, Mr Brørby, has drawn up proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e674	First, I want to show you what the case spokesperson has said, and then in my post I just want to address one of the issues, namely, the one that has been discussed the most. This is a follow-up to previous decisions in Stortinget, and the Christian People's Party found it very positive that we have got a new proposal and a new setting on the table today, where the Labour Party joins the Centre, Right and SV's way of thinking. This means that a system that has worked especially - I should not use the word'molbolig' - is incomprehensible and unimaginable, and now monthly softens up by allowing both seasonal and specialist workers to apply for employment from Norwegian soil. We need a workforce, but it's pretty complicated to find a job, get a job and get jobs from the 'long-term'. So is the animal. So now there are trade union workers like this. jobs in the aquaculture or fishing industry, as well as those who may call themselves specialists, seek work while in Norway. That's good. But the Christian People's Party is not content. We think it's a minimum solution that's chosen. It is still unreasonably, and actually strange, that a person who is seeking asylum but who is refused because he or she is not trusted – perhaps because they cannot prove that they are persecuted – cannot seek work and in that way be in Norway ‘on their own keel’. By the way, most countries that persecute and harass their citizens are not so careful that they can be documented. The person I'm talking about may well be a specialist, but he's not allowed to work in Norway because he thinks he's been persecuted in his home country. If the labour force is needed, it must be insignificant for the application for unemployment in what way the person has travelled to Norway or why he has travelled to Norway. However, to be positive in the end, the opening for Norwegian foreign stations to be able to accept applications for job opportunities is good, and this may mean that the queue in UDI does not increase. It is very important that the job is given in a short time, so that companies that need people get it, without having to wait months for a public stamp.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e689	This issue is a natural follow-up to previous debates, general debates, on liberalising and opening up more labour immigration by changing the procedures. First of all, I would like to refer to the attitude of the Progress Party in the debates and in the positions, namely that we do not have the same need and wish for liberalisation and decoration as the other parties have. In particular, the right and left have been leading parties in terms of opening up much more to labour migration. And after what I heard in a debate a few days ago, the Workers' Party's Leif Lund also said that the proposal that has now been dropped, which came from the Right, would in reality mean almost free labour immigration. Now, of course, the joint proposal is somewhat less far-reaching, you might say, but in our view it is not very different. We will not vote in favour of the last proposal, nor would we have voted in favour of the motion by the Labour Party in the vote, which was the best. That proposal has been drawn up, and I see no need to re-examine it, because it really also means an embellishment. We still see it as a fact that a large proportion of those who are on the move to increase labour immigration to Norway are actually wanting to import cheap labour. That many employers who may now have to pay up in order to attract qualified, or special, labour, would very much like to have free labour immigration in order to keep wages down and earn better, I understand, but we see no reason why that should be the situation. We don't know what the situation in the Norwegian labour market is in one year, two years, five years or eight years. We're going to be based on what's the natural development of our population, and then we're going to get much more when it's necessary and desirable to produce more goods and services, buy it abroad. I think one ignores the problems that can arise in society with too much labour immigration. Asylum migration to Norway is already so large today – it has now become significant again in recent times – that we should not increase labour migration as well. The seasonal workers who come to Norway in the summer are not a particular problem when they return afterwards. There is a large difference between permanent labour immigration and temporary seasonal labour. I would like to inform you that we will vote against the proposal that is probably the only one left, to amend the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth paragraphs. So we're going to vote against it. Then I will be allowed to take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote, because we really have great problems understanding why, in this respect, you take fingerprints, Section 37, fourth paragraph, you only go in for it to be «can be taken». We think it should be mandatory that it should be taken. It would be more consistent with the Schengen thinking – you have to identify, you have to do what you can to prevent you from being deceived by false explanations. We think it's a more reasonable way to do it. So we're firmly committed to our position on these issues. I've noticed that Leif Lund has the same opinion that we have, fear of social dumping, fear that you really want to get cheap labour. We have many ways in which we can reorganize Norway in terms of making better use of our labour force than we do today. We still have too high unemployment, and it is still possible to free labour through modernisation and rationalisation and to buy goods and services abroad rather than change the nature of the Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e708	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestion that he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e711	For this matter, just a few brief comments from the Center Party. Today, the Government is launching proposals to ensure that the State itself has added more with a minority background. That's good. Governments present this as measures against racism. I agree with that, and such measures are necessary. I want to ask the State Council to follow up even more in their own rows. There are too many examples of how people who turn to UDI are met. There are too many examples of who is being met with a rejection, so that not even these relationships are examples of racism that should have been cleared up. We are pleased and pleased with the proposal that is being presented today, which brings together a broad majority. We see this as a minimum. It was as far as the government could come in the short time that was left of the spring session. We would have liked the proposal to go further. We then named St.meld. No 17 were dealt with, and like these four proposals from the Right, which spelled out labour immigration, what is happening in practice to some asylum seekers who are being refused: they are already included in a community. There are even examples of both games, dentists, teachers and unskilled people who have a job and who could fill a job. They have an education or experience to fill a job in a community, and the communities themselves are ringing their bells. We would have liked the proposal to open today because asylum seekers who have been refused had the opportunity to search before they left the country. We can hope that the Council of State will come back to that at a later date. When it comes to seasonal labour, Carl I. Hagen said that there was no problem when a person went back after a job was done. I'd like to stress that in a lot of cases, this group is just helping to counter racism. They contribute to greater knowledge of each other and greater knowledge of relationships in different countries, and provide the basis for an actual better living side by side with different cultural backgrounds and different skin color.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e726	SV supports the proposal that has been put forward, but like representatives from both the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, we believe that there is a need to go something further. Among other things, the relationship has been mentioned for those who have been refused asylum. We have discussed several times in this Chamber whether these should be allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis because they have work. SV strongly disagrees with that, because it is the institution of asylum. But we see no reason why people who are here legally and for no other reason have disqualified themselves should be placed in a different situation than other people who are here, with the qualifications that you are now opening up to. We believe that to be unreasonable. But there has been so little time on this treatment that it has not been possible in any serious way to get any bill that could cover this. That's why we'll come back to the later. In line with its tradition, the Progress Party has been up and giving a talk on its own fear of people coming from countries other than our very closest. SV does not share this fear at all. On the contrary, it is positive that people want to come and stay and work in Norway. It's part of a modern globalized world, which we see not only specialists will benefit from. This is about the fact that there are long traditions in Norway for — and I think it will strengthen itself in the future — that Norwegian citizens want to travel and live in other countries and work there. This is actually no more scary than that. I react very strongly to it being said that the desire for a more open immigration policy lies in the desire for cheaper labour. I don't think I can be suspected of that, because we are very concerned that the laws, regulations and conditions of the labour market should be taken into account, and have also been very concerned about giving the trade union movement the space it needs to have to ensure that the labour force is not exploited and subjected to unfair treatment. In that arena, the Progress Party has been completely absent, and even when it comes to those who are out of work, I have to remember that there have been quite a number of proposals that could have improved the situation for them, without the Progress Party thinking that there has been some priority task of spending money on it. It is more likely that the purpose of the Progress Party’s policy has been to provide cheaper Norwegian labour force, i.e. that the labour force in Norway should sell cheaper and accept worse conditions, in order to solve some of the issues that the Progress Party sees as a problem. So to the last one, Eurodac and fingerprints. The Centerpartiet and SV have principal counter performances against Norwegian affiliation. We fear what can happen in connection with this connection, namely that there are strictest asylum practices in force. This whole system adds up to it, and in addition you go in for example. retaining fingerprints of asylum seekers who have been granted asylum for very many years afterwards. It's kind of suspicious about it, and I have to say I don't like it very much that those who have received asylum or refugee status in Norway are going to be exposed to such a long-standing suspicion as a registration in this system is. So we want to vote against these paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e738	I am pleased with the opening-up of the legislation, which, like the majority, I believe is absolutely necessary in this area. And after hearing Hagen's representative here instead of the speaker's chair, at least I feel the need to say that we need more people in many businesses and sectors in Norway. Then we have a challenge both in terms of employing the many unemployed among the groups of immigrants in Norway with skills and resources, which we should have had in work, and also in terms of being more flexible and open in order to accommodate people from other countries, for example. to be able to carry out parts of health care where we are not able to cover up with domestic labour – and that is something I hear, in other contexts at least, that the Progress Party is concerned. But we have a code that is made at a different time from the one we live today, and then it's necessary to make the changes that are now happening. I am glad that there has been a broad consensus on both specialists and seasonal labour – I just feel the need to say a few words in relation to it. When the Workers' Party was initially skeptical about taking in seasonal labour, it wasn't because we've in some way had some principleal counter-representation against it, but it was simply based on an assessment of the situation that is currently in the Foreign Affairs Directorate. But when the proposal was now adjusted so that there was agreement, and something was taken away from the original proposal of the other parties, we feel that this is a good proposal, and I am glad that there is agreement on it. It would have been strange, I think, if not the parties that are actually too softening, could agree on something, and that it was those who would at least, that would be able to decide. So I just want to comment on what Carl I said. Hagen said in relation to Leif Lund, because Leif Lund is a member of the Lamentations and cut off from saying something in the Odelstinget. I'm sure Leif Lund would have said something like placing Leif Lund on the same party as Carl I. Hagen in relation to this case, is completely wrong. When Leif Lund has argued in this case, it has been against a different proposal than it has now been agreed on, just so it has been said. Then I would like to comment on the comment from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left that there is a need to give asylum seekers who have been denied asylum, the opportunity to apply for a work permit while they are here in the country. As I have stated on several occasions, I believe it would have been a totally unsustainable asylum policy that asylum seekers who have managed to get a job here in the country would be allowed to stay, while those who had not managed to get a job were just going home again. It is therefore with satisfaction that I note that there is no majority in favour of such a proposal. With regard to another issue, which concerns that even unskilled workers from non-EEA countries who have received a job in Norway who cannot be filled with domestic labour or labour from the EEA territory should be allowed to obtain a work permit, the Government, as the Storting is well known, has now started to set up a legislative committee for a broad review of the Foreign Affairs Act. The objective here must also be simplification and relaxation of the legislation. It is important, in our opinion, that the provision of unskilled workers is significantly greater than at present, and that the proposal for this should be sent to the hearing, so that all relevant interests are heard. For the time being, the Government is investigating further measures to make it easier to get foreign labour here. I am, among other things, I have decided that foreigners who have studied here in the country will also be able to work afterwards. It has been shown that many foreign students do not go back to their home country to work there. They like to go to other Western countries where their workforce is in demand, and I think they might as well be able to work here in the country. The seasonal work permit scheme is first extended from the agricultural and horticultural industries to the whole agricultural and forestry industry. Then I would just like to inform you that this spring, in cooperation with the Labour Market Act, UDI has reviewed the procedural procedures in several categories of applications for simplification. That's absolutely necessary. That work is now fully in the final phase, and it is suggested that matters should be sent much less from the UDI to the labour market seat for an opinion. The labour market seat shall provide UDI with up-to-date, industry-wide summaries of any leave. The individual cases therefore do not need to be sent around, and the procedure period will thus be shorter, to mention some of the measures that are currently being worked on. I feel convinced that this effort that we are now making will determine that the procedure will be more effective, and that the procedure will be reduced. This will make it more attractive, I think, for foreigners to apply for a work permit in Norway, and there is labour demand in many companies and businesses around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e757	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e760	I hear the Council of State said Leif Lund had polemized against a different proposal than what is being adopted here today. I would like to remind you that the second proposal did not restrict the type of work permit. The law has only two types of work permits as designed today, and it is work permit as a specialist or work permit as a seasonal worker. So in that way, it's exactly the same real content of what's being adopted today, as that majority has actually talked about all along. But I understand that it may seem necessary – with the strong words and expressions used here a few days – to try to make a distinction between it. Then I have a specific question to the Council of State. During the spring we received press releases and opinions on quite a number of changes that will happen. And in the overview we got in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 17 for 2000-2001, on asylum and immigration policy and the situation in the UDI, the proposal we are examining today, i.e. the amendment to the Foreign Affairs Act, provided that it should take the longest time because it required full legal treatment. I wonder if the Council of State is going to finish the simplified regulatory work, and when she intends to bring this law into force, so that in the future you will know what the simplifications will be – that is, whether there is a timetable for the change in the foreign regulation compared to all the signals that have been given during the spring. In fact, in addition to working with the settings, storage representatives are also becoming quick information centre, as the UDI is a little blown up. And it seems that press releases have gone out three to four months ago, but people still wonder when these regulations will actually be implemented, because they have issues where they are waiting at the time when they can be processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e769	What was announced through press releases earlier this winter was the aim of everything being implemented by the end of this year. This does not mean that we are sitting quietly waiting for the new year to come, to say it that way, and I am glad that we managed to deal with this matter in record time here in the house, so that we can now get this going faster than if we had necessarily had to wait until the fall. The same applies to the regulations. Everything is now working on high gear, and as soon as it is practical, we will implement both laws and implement regulations. It is also part of the proposals that were put forward this winter, to which neither legislative nor regulatory changes are needed, that is. So it's just being told that it's going to happen – and it's happening, to say it that way. I guess that's the clearest answer I can give now. But I can guarantee that this job-be asked for it on high gear, and we will implement it all as soon as it is practical.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e774	As far as I can see from the media, the Prime Minister has today presented a number of new points of view, including: notified of an order to invite at least one migrant background of the applicant mass for an interview when he/she has the formal qualifications for a job advertised. For this reason, there are many qualified foreigners and also immigrants with Norwegian citizenship who have problems getting a job. That is why special efforts must be made and imposed – that is, positive discrimination against a group, and that is also a sort of stigmatisation that I think is unfortunate. I would like to ask the Council of State how this rhymes with her claim that we need more foreigners with good skills. How can this be the case, if Norwegian companies and the public call for skilled labour, which is lacking, and which should make it easier to get to the country, that you claim that exactly the same group has major problems in getting a job today? I don't make those things rhyme. So I would like to ask the Council of State if any of the things that have been published today – so I have only heard it through the media – will be put before the Storting for treatment before it is implemented? Or is it to understand that you think you have coverage for the things that may now be carried out, in the treatment of certain messages by the Storting? I would like to know to what extent you believe that you can broadcast circulars on positive discrimination and set guidelines on how to deal with applications from foreigners or people with a migrant background – that you should always be invited to a job interview, even if the head of the establishment and those who normally do so find it more natural to invite other Norwegians to a job interview.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e781	I do not think there can be any doubt that there is considerable discrimination also in the labour market in Norway, consciously or unconsciously. When we see that there are some people who don't get a job because they go with a skate on their heads, when unemployment among immigrants is about three times as high as among the rest of the population – even though we know that many of them both know Norwegian, have good skills, and at the same time we know that many sectors are screaming for labour – then there is something that is not the way it should be. It doesn't want the government to sit still and watch. There is some background to – as Mr Hagen has said here – that today we have presented twelve concrete measures that we believe need to be taken to try to tackle the discrimination we see in Norway today. Two of those points are directly about the labour market, and it wasn't exactly what Hagen now said, but I understand that it's only heard through the media, and then it's not always that it's accurate. What we are proposing is the following: ‘All government agencies shall have in their posts a wording which encourages persons with a minority background to apply for the post’. The second thing is: ‘Ministries shall — as a one-year pilot project — ‘call at least one qualified candidate with a minority background for an interview for each vacancy being advertised’. – One qualified applicant. I believe this is a very necessary measure, because we see too often that immigrants do not even reach the interview. We see that many people have had to change their names in order to be called for an interview, and I believe that the government should lead by example. That's what we're trying to add up through these measures. When it comes to the question of whether there is any of this that needs to happen to the Storting, a few of those things might have to go to Stortinget. This applies, inter alia, to: a proposal concerning changes to the law on housing, etc. It has to go to Stortinget. When it comes to what the departments are doing, I think that's something that the departments can decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e802	In the debate on the Government’s big message on asylum and refugee policy, I pointed out that the Government of the Proposition on the Dublin Convention, that the Foreign Affairs Committee in its position and that in its reply to a question from the Committee, the Council confirmed that Norwegian policy was intended, among other things, to the purpose of the Dublin Convention. is to prevent asylum seekers from being referred back and forth between countries without receiving treatment of the application. The Dublin Convention does not regulate the content of a country's asylum policy, only procedural rules. The majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee would stress that a Member State was free to deal with an asylum application even if it is not obliged to do so under the Dublin Convention. I pointed out that in a lookout in the evening post UDI had indicated that asylum seekers had only one chance. Is what this Council of States is talking about in Ot.prp. No 96 when referred to as ‘asyl shopping’? Is there a new policy of the Labour Party and the Council of State then pointing to, and which has been given a majority in the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, to express the view that it is now possible to prevent 'asyl shopping'? I called for the views of the Council of State on what the UDI had said, since this was clearly contrary to what the Council of State itself, both in terms of the proposition and in response to questions from the Committee, had expressed. Is there now a new policy on asylum shopping?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e809	I hope I understood the question, but you'll have to excuse me if I didn't do it completely. No new government policy is added. We can, as I have also said earlier from this pulpit, conduct our refugee and immigration policy as we believe is right. Then we have had many discussions, both on these issues and, as has been said, on foreign policy issues, on Schengen and the Dublin Convention, etc., and there are well-known dividing lines. But we're not going to add up to any new policy beyond what's been briefed on in the past. When it comes to the question of the posting in the evening post and the director of the UDI, I would like to say that I want to look into it more carefully before I say anything to my best friend about it. But there is no new policy on the part of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e818	Governments are very careful to distance themselves from the Progress Party's policies. No confirm the fact that it is the Right, the Progress Party and the Labour Party that are united when it comes to Schengen and Eurodac. In this setting, there is also another point where the Progress Party will win the Government plural for its vision. There is a ceiling on the number of specialists/professionals eligible for unemployment without individual occupational assessment. My first question will then be based on the assessments behind this: What makes her see this as necessary? Secondly, where will she put this roof? Then I feel a need to follow up on the answer given by the Council of State to Erna Solberg, who is implementing these changes in the Foreign Affairs Act. The Council of State states – commendably – that it will implement this law as quickly as possible, without clarifying it further. If it is as interested in making changes to works as quickly as possible, it should be believed that it will have a positive step in which to use these words. My specific question will be: Will it be as soon as possible that seasonal workers who are in Norway this summer will be able to apply for extended periods of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e827	Setting a roof is primarily intended by the Government as a practical solution, instead of having a labour market assessment of each case. We've seen a lot of simple examples of it, things that have gone out in time and made you not get the people you need. One of the worst examples I've seen is a case of Australian nurses at the Central Hospital in Hedmark, who have not taken years, so at least invisibly many months, and who have made the nurses never get there. One of the reasons why this happened was the labour market assessment we have per year. Today, and that it took too much time to run and send the cases between the different floors. We can't have it that way. From our side, this roof is not going to be absolute. Of course, if there is a need for more labour than the roof that is set at any time, it is necessary to be able to touch that roof. That's the one. As far as the propulsion plan is concerned, it is clear that we have a propulsion plan. When I don't dare be entirely concrete now, it's because there's a danger, because I don't remember the date exactly in my head, that I can inform the Storting wrong. I don't take the chance. That's why I'm saying we're going to do it as soon as possible. So I would rather make sure to check and get the right date and month, and then report back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. There's nothing else in it. There is absolutely no attempt not to implement it as quickly as possible. I'm asking you to believe that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e836	I need to ask the Council of State why asylum seekers who refuse to apply cannot be treated in the same way as others who want to apply for such an authorisation. Instead, the Council's response suggested that she might have misunderstood it to the point where we, who have pointed this out, believe that the persons concerned should be granted asylum on the basis that they have been employed. That's not the case at all. It is just that we believe that they can apply for a work permit like others. We're not saying they're going to get it. We believe that they will receive the same assessment as the other applicants. As long as they have legally entered Norway — and it is legitimate to come to Norway as an asylum seeker — it is difficult to understand why they should be treated differently. Because in practice, this labour force can be just as useful and loved as other workers. There are people who are in the country, who may yet be able to Norwegian and are well adapted to their communities and perhaps have also been in work and have proved to be very good employees. It is a little difficult to grasp the real content of why the Council of State is so sceptical about this and believes that it needs to be dealt with in a different way and that it has something to do with asylum and refugee policy. I would like to underline again as strongly as I can from SV's side that we have taken strong action precisely against allowing people to stay, for example. on a humanitarian basis because they have received a job or are well adapted to a community. We believe that they should be allowed to apply for a work permit in line with others when we open it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e847	Now we do not propose that everyone should be allowed to apply for a work permit in Norway through this proposal. It's important for me to stress. Moreover, I think it is very important to distinguish between the usual asylum and refugee policy and what we are now talking about, which is labour immigration. In fact, I believe that it would be a hopeless situation if the asylum seekers who are refused their asylum application because they do not need protection in Norway were not to go home. I believe that in a way is the one side of the policy that at least this government stands for. The other side is whether we should include specialists and seasonal workers as workers on other criteria. It's a principle that at least we think one should hold high in claim, we think one should separate the two things. If not, I'm afraid we're getting a completely different and uncontrollable situation compared to what's happening today. I don't think that's desirable. I think everyone deserves to know that we have a little bit of order in the sewing business.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e852	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e857	I just feel the need to link notes to two things, because five minutes of speaking time is getting short. One concerns the question of roof. The council replied that the option of not having a roof would be to have individual treatment each time. That's not what the minority says. They say that there is a need for lists of where there is a need in the labour market. Then the police will have to approve it. At the moment it is reported from Aetat that there is now a coverage in the labour market in this area, they should be included in the list and then individual treatment should be applied. As I see it, our proposal is actually less bureaucratic than what the government puts up to. I think you should think again, whether it won't be as flexible as a roof that should be there and then maybe lifted, rather have the opportunity to change quickly that way. In addition, I would like to say that on the nurse's side, I think one thing is related to the individual labour market assessment, because we think it is very strange that it should take so long. However, what is perceived as the biggest problem related to these things is that in order to obtain a work permit, one must be approved as a nurse in Norway, and in order to be recognised as a nurse in Norway, one must have a course which is not given until one has a work permit in Norway. It's called a catch 22 situation. There is a system that is impossible to get out of, because you cannot go to that course until you have received a work permit, and then you have to come to Norway in another way. The problem complex related to it has been asked by Stortinget to return to the budget in the autumn, with a review of the recognition issue of nurses. All the hospitals say that it is hopeless that this course cannot be given until you have actually received a work permit. It will mean a necessary red tape to do something about this course activity and make it work, so that our desire to get more nurses from other countries can be fulfilled more quickly. The second point I wanted to raise is the question related to the asylum institute. I am not so afraid that a person who has been here and had a job had received a work permit, even if he had been refused. That's not where I feel this challenges the asylum institute. What's the problem is that different regulations create signals in the rest of the world. And what would quickly happen was that Norway was perceived as a very popular country to be a jobseeker, because you could sign up as an asylum seeker, and then you could live at the state's expense at refugee reception and receive pocket money until you had found a job that you could apply for. It's kind of naive, I don't think to see this side of it all. It would have undermined fairly quickly all respect for the institution of asylum and the system. The reason why we can't have it like that is simply because we take care of the asylum seekers who come to Norway, through housing, stay and an activity offer. I think that although there are many single examples of businesses etc. where it might have been the best thing that we had said yes today, for example. Thus, to some of the Kosovar Albanians who are making an absolute effort in the community and elsewhere, we had created a signal effect. And it's not so hard to see how that signal effect becomes for other countries where there's no reference to the Criteria system for who's allowed to apply for asylum. The Committee was in Ireland, where those on the list of applicants for asylum in Ireland were from completely different countries than the rest of Europe. Why? Because the legal rules were completely different from what we have in Norway. A little less naivety would have been tricked right in that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e870	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 792]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e884	Before case No. 12 is taken up, the President will draw attention to the fact that this position has not been beyond the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Odelstinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. The President cannot see any objections to this proposal and is therefore deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 793]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e899	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-12.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e1059	It is vouched for the law's change of law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e1068	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e1116	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e1125	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e1920	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e1929	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e1975	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e1984	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e1991	During the debate, Mr Nistad presented a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2032	There is a different proposal from the Right and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No. 22 November 1996 No. 65 concerning the postal company of the State and in Law No 22 November 1996 66 concerning the State rail carrier is amended as follows:§ 63 is deleted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2072	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2081	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2133	Here the Right Party and the Advance Party have notified that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2158	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2167	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2174	During the debate, Mr Lund has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The ruling asks the Government to investigate and propose a system allowing the use of health claims in the labelling and marketing of food.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2226	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2235	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2449	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2458	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2666	The representative Steinar Bastesen has stated that he here wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2676	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2685	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2693	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the representative Terje Knudsen, proposal No. 2, by Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right Amendment No. 3, by Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Terje Knudsen, proposals No. 4-8, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. During the debate, Mr Andersen drew up proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox The President first takes note of the proposals. One, two, three, five, six, seven. Proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Party of Advancement and the representative of Terje Knudsen, says: ‘The Government requests the allocation of 50 rearing concessions for salmon and trout in the forthcoming round of allocations.’; Proposal No. 2, from the right, says: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for changes to the Breeding Act and other relevant laws ensuring full freedom of establishment in the breeding of trout and marine fish species.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen, reads: 'The Grand Duchy asks the Government to submit proposals for the Law of 14 June 1985 No. 68 for the farming of fish, crustaceans, etc. shall be deleted.’;» Proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party, it says: ‘The decision asks the Government to enforce the right of repatriation of concessions to the State upon termination and to submit proposals to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks that the decision on the number of new environmental impact assessment concessions for new food fish farming areas be taken.’ Proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to await the granting of Salmon Breeding Concessions in Neiden and Tana to the suspension of the Salmon Committee has been finalised.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2744	These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2769	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2781	The President will then vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 6 new third paragraph shall be replaced by the following: Before new areas can be opened for food fish farming, an environmental impact assessment of the authorisations shall first be carried out.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2802	There is a small error in the configuration. You are directed to II.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2805	I want to vote against II.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2819	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Does the Right Party, the Advance Party and the representative Terje Knudsen and perhaps Steinar Bastesen also want to vote against the title of the law? – It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2832	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2839	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 2, by Carl I. Hagen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 3, from Erna Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2863	The President will vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. This proposal replaces Section 6 of the suspension, which is thus withdrawn. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 6, fourth, fifth, new sixth, seventh and eighth subparagraphs shall be replaced by the following:Foreigners with access to the kingdom for three months or more may apply from the Kingdom for a work permit as a specialist or seasonal worker. This does not apply, however, to foreigners residing in the State in connection with an application for asylum or pending departure after refusal of asylum application. For a non-resident applying for a work permit on a non-specialist or seasonal basis, the first work permit must be granted before entry.The king may by regulation derogate from the requirements of the fourth and fifth subparagraphs and provide detailed rules on the procedure for applying for a work permit. The king may, by regulation, derogate from this requirement in the case of aliens specifically associated with the State or where there are particular reasonable grounds and give detailed rules on the procedure for applying for a residence permit. Decisions on the work permit and residence permit are taken by the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. The king may by regulation confer upon the police the power to decide on an application for a work permit and to grant an application for a residence permit. The king may by regulation authorise the Norwegian Foreign Station to grant an application for a work permit.’;» The Progress Party has announced here that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2957	The President will first vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, to the introductory part. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The introduction to the fourth paragraph of Section 37 shall be replaced by the following: Photographs and fingerprints of foreigners shall be taken as: ’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e2974	It is then voted on the Committee's suspension to the fourth paragraph of Section 37 and new sections 37c and 37e. Here the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e3001	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e3011	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e3045	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud810e3054	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
