ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e46	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to the exchange of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e57	As spokesman for the case, I would say that the Committee agrees that there is now a need for a new review of this law. We can imagine that more than ten years ago, the deregulated Council of State, Reiten, from the Central Party, in the Syse Government of Energy Law, and that is to the extent that part of the work is continuing today, but some of this is being stopped. The plurality of the committee joins most of what the government has come with, but there are a few different points where it is necessary to go against. Several go against the Government's recommendation when it applies to §§ 3-1, 3-2 and 5-l. The reason why a number go against it is because there is a fear, among other things. the disappearance of district work sites and corner stone enterprises in the municipality, a fear that the workplaces will become sourca – a fear at all that the competence of the districts, with the proposal made by the Government, will be weakened. So that doesn't want the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party to be on. SV and the Central Party took an early initiative against the Labour Party on Stortinget to get them involved in this change in relation to the Government's arrangement. We were also aware that this was an important matter for the LO Congress and trade union, and were therefore very pleased that we had a good cooperation both with the LO Congress and with the EL-IT Association to get the Labour Party back on a course that is more consistent with what I would call social-democratic policy. If one had completed what the Government has proposed, one could not have been in such a situation as one had in Sweden, where one has done these grips, where the current was actually disabled for three days in the middle of a cold period. We now avoid this by ensuring that you retain your local skills, by ensuring that your workplaces are screened and that you do not get the outsourcing that was provided. I would also like to make it clear, as case spokesman, when it comes to Section 5A-1, the responsibility of the system, that a single committee is concerned that this should be neutral and independent in relation to the actors in the power market, and the Committee supports the Government's proposal that there should be regulations in relation to this issue. SV has challenged, as we always do, the parts of Stortinget on the environment. We want the purpose of this law to have clear formulations on the environment. That's why we have a proposal for this, but unfortunately it's only SV who wants to put it in the bottom. The center party says they're a bit of a few, but they don't want to take this grip now when the laws are for handling. That seems to me to be a shame in SV. Right now, a grip on this and, as the Minister for Oil and Energy was in the Question Time today, a tough one for an efficient use of energy. One of the SV's proposals was to insert into the Energy Act's purpose paragraph that one should have an efficient use of energy. Unfortunately, I have to say that it is only the environmental party SV that thinks this is so important that it should be included in the purpose paragraph. I also want to pay attention to a couple of other problem settings that SV has been working on. This is the case with regulations and regulations in the case of building laws. There must be more scope for action there, precisely in order to achieve the energy efficiency that the Council of State has said is important and that a majority of them have also said is important, but one of them is not, in practice, a follow-up to legislation. Finally, a concern I have, which goes along the path of privatisation that one looks around the country. For SV, it is very important that we work to ensure that the leg forces remain on public eight hands and are not privatized. I want to include the SV's suggestions in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e83	Hallgeir H. Langeland has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e86	As the rapporteur said, this position is from the Committee to Ot.prp. No 56 pretty straightforward. There's excitement about most of what the government comes with. It is now absolutely necessary, after ten years of this energy law, to review and revise the law. One finds that the energy law introduced in 1991 has been successful and that it has worked in the market. It has also been an example for other countries in many ways, and what has happened in Norway has been seen. I would like to comment on a few points in this matter that we now have to deal with. One goes on what the Workers' Party is now joining forces with SV and the Center Party. These are the paragraphs on the works concession, the district concession and the concession for district heating installations, respectively the proposed change in Sections 3-1, 3-2 and 5-1. According to current legislation, a concession is required to build and operate installations for the production, transformation, transmission and distribution of high voltage electrical energy. In the proposal under consideration, it is proposed that, in the case of these three paragraphs, only a concession be required to build and own facilities. We in the Workers' Party found that this step we wouldn't take now. One of the reasons is that we have to do a total assessment here. The overall assessment includes a great deal in this area of reorganisation, structural changes, acquisitions, etc. In other words – and this is not a negative point – there are some concerns here, and we have problems getting an overview of this. I would also like to stress that when we now propose to require a concession only for building and owning facilities, we place considerable emphasis on this with local knowledge in the districts, the working environment and expertise, among others. rapid treatment of fractures and repairs. In other words, it provides a guarantee of what is to be repaired, that one is familiar with the areas, and the deliveries are then maintained. Based on this overall assessment, we have come to the conclusion that we will be served by maintaining today's laws in that area, so that there is no uncertainty created. We need to feel secure that the expertise is maintained and that the districts are maintained. We want to be a little safer before we go further, and therefore we stand with the Center Party and SV in this case. Finally, I would like to add some comments to this with the disclosure obligation. The previous obligation to recover was lifted in the context of the implementation of the Energy Act. This introduced market-based power sales with competition in the production and placing on the market of power. However, the concessionaires still have a monopoly on the construction and operation of the network within the concession areas. As a counterbalance to this monopoly, the district concessionaires continue to have universal obligations for their customers, and I would like to stress that this with the delivery deadline is still fully enshrined in the law. In the end, of course, in order to maintain this, you have to have something to deliver, and I hope that the power balance will not be further in the offing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e101	It was necessary after ten years to have a review of the Energy Act. Overall, we agree with the Government's proposals for amendments and adjustments. Like the majority in Stortinget, we believe that the Energy Act has worked well and according to purpose. On a few points, however, we want further clarifications or improvements. There are two aspects in particular. One is to ensure that environmental and energy efficiency considerations are better addressed in the Energy Act, and the other is to take into account the operational safety, maintenance and preparedness of the legislative amendment proposed by the Government in respect of the concession provisions. I just want to briefly explain these conditions. With regard to environmental and energy efficiency considerations, we believe that the relatively extensive conversion to which Norwegian energy production is now linked should be better reflected in the legislation. As other laws, the Energy Act must not only reflect a reality but also be normative and contribute to change. The current commitment to new renewable energy sources and to energy efficiency and impact should provide the basis for a review of the legislation to verify whether it provides sufficient framework conditions and incentives for such conversion. This is why the Christian People's Party, like several hearing bodies, believes that there is a need for a more comprehensive review of the Energy Act than the Government provides. This concerns in particular the aims and provisions of the law in relation to developments in environmental considerations, new renewable energy sources, the development of waterborne heat, etc. In addition, Stortinget asked in connection with the treatment of St.prp. No 19 for 2000-2001 on an assessment of a system that could see more energy sources in the context. In connection with the last state budget, Stortinget asked for an investigation into a scheme of mandatory green certification systems in the field of energy. In both of these cases, this type of conversion may result in changes in energy legislation. The Christian People's Party and the other central parties therefore ask that the Government carry out such a review and return to the Stortinget with any legislative changes. Similarly, we believe that these considerations should be better reflected in the purpose of the law. The balance between different considerations in a purpose paragraph is well known from the Water Resource Act and is often complicated. However, rather than promoting amendments directly now, we want the Government, on the basis of such a review as I have outlined, to also promote proposals for changes to the objectives. We promote publishers accordingly. With regard to the other aspects of which the Christian People's Party has a divergent view, namely the concession provisions, this has to do with regard to operational safety, maintenance and preparedness. In our opinion, the Government's proposal to change the concession scheme from concession to concession construction and operation facilities for construction and owning facilities is acceptable, but only on condition that strict requirements are laid down to ensure safe and appropriate operation in the event of an operating relocation. We are not sure that the Government's proposals provide sufficient security for this. In § 3-4, no. 5 cf. § 7-6, allows for further requirements, without making it clear that this will be done. The same applies to the issue of adequate competence of the owner to whom the operational tasks are delegated. Here the law also gives access, without confirming that such requirements will be met. In view of the need for security, predictability and security on such issues and in order to avoid creating uncertainty about the operational safety and competence of new operators, we believe that such strict requirements should be laid down in the regulation of the Energy Act by the Christian People's Party. For us who are outside the government party, it is very special to bear witness that the Workers' Party does not support its own government in this matter. When even a regulatory solution, as I have outlined, is a completely acceptable way to solve the problematic aspects of the proposal, as the Christian People's Party and the Left propose, I find it really quite perceptive that a still landing to vote down its own Council of States. One can wonder a lot about the conditions of power in the Workers' Party, when that is what LO thinks, later on to be more important to the government party than its own government stands for, but leave it alone. Let me, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, stress that it is essential that systemic responsibility is managed in a way that ensures independence, neutrality and objectivity vis-à-vis other actors in the market. With the clear comments made here by the Committee, we assume that this is set out in the regulation. With these three clarifications, we are behind the changes in the Energy Act. With this I will, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the other centre parties and to some extent also other parties, take up the proposals No. One, two, three, four in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e132	Hilde Frafjord Johnson has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e135	The right is pleased to present an adjustment to Odelstinget which implies a necessary adjustment to the Energy Act. The experience we have had with existing energy laws in the last ten years shows that despite the fact that many people were skeptical when Norway chose to go ahead with a new energy law, this has been a successful policy. It has been so successful that very many other countries look to Norway as to learn from the experience we have done. We are therefore also pleased that when the Government makes an adjustment to the Energy Act, it builds on the clear market cycle that was in the original law, and follows up the intentions of a more market-oriented energy policy. Of course, we could wish that one went a little bit further here, but that's what you get back to. What is also important in this matter is that the Government proposes some simplification and modernisation of the law. This simplification and modernisation will include, inter alia: lead to a much simpler concessional treatment and several conditions are not subject to concessional treatment. That is why we are very surprised that the Workers' Group does not follow their own government's recommendation here. On Monday, they should have been capricious to the big group in relation to all the defeats that the government then suffered in the Grand Duchy by a majority against it, and that in the same week, they will follow up on themselves to help defeat the Government, should be a cross of thought. So I hope that here you will remember and support the proposal that the Government has made, because it will lead to a simplification of treatment, and that means that we will let go – both above the tax and electricity bill – of paying for an excessive concession system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e144	The Energy Act has now been working for ten years, and I agree with the Government that it is now necessary to make some adjustments and adjustments in the light of the experience with the law so far. The Energy Act has largely produced the desired results, and Norway has been a leading country in this area in the implementation of the law. The law has given rise to competition in production and marketing, which has given advantages to consumers, who have freely been able to buy electricity where it has always been the cheapest. However, the government and the majority of the population have introduced more and more taxes in recent years, which, of course, dampens the interest of consumers to ‘trade’ in the market, all the time it is no longer the price of electricity, but the charges that now amount to some. half of the people's electricity bill. With regard to the purpose section, § 1-2, a change has now been proposed, so that it also applies to the use of energy. The party of progress will oppose this change, as we consider energy to be any other commodity that can be freely traded on the market and can freely be used by those who buy the energy in this market at any time. The proposed change may initially look relatively harmless, but I still want to warn against a step towards the use of energy being covered by the law – and we can only wonder what will be the next step in this development. I will therefore oppose the proposed change on this point. With regard to Sections 3-1, 3-2 and 5-1, we support the Government amendment, which will involve increased competition for the operation, maintenance and preparedness of the facilities. This will lead to better market adaptation, which, hopefully, will ultimately benefit consumers. However, I am amazed at the Workers' Party's large-scale group which does not support its own government on this point and which therefore prevents the majority from being achieved for this sensible modernisation of the law. With this I would like to signal support for proposal No. 1, while I am asking that voting give us the opportunity to vote against the changes in Section 1-2, i.e. the purpose paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e159	In an important energy issue that was discussed in this Chamber last spring, current Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said: We are voting for what we are in favour of, and against what we are against. It no longer appears to be valid with regard to the vote of the Workers' Party. Today, the Labour Party is voting against an important point proposed by the Labour Party Government in the amendment of the Energy Act. And they do it without a credible reason. The Government proposes that the concession scheme be amended from the concession to build and operate construction and owning activities. This will lead to the continuation of the main principle of today's provisions, while providing flexibility to the industry in the choice of operating modes. This flexibility is important – it opens up more rational solutions and better resource use. There have been some objections to the proposed changes and there has been a focus on safety, predictability and safety. In order to clear the gap, the Christian People's Party and the Left are in favour of clear requirements for safe and appropriate operation laid down in the Energy Act, as well as sufficient competence in the field of disengagement. This should have been a tailor-made arrangement for the Workers' Party. But, no, you're just as full of yourself as the government's arrangement, saying no to an important efficiency and modernisation act. The Left supports the Government's proposal for changes to the Energy Act, but the Left believes that there is a need for a more comprehensive review of the Act. There is a need to see more energy sources in context and to take more account of developments in renewable energy sources and the development of waterborne heat. The left wants an adjustment of the purpose paragraph, where environmental considerations and energy efficiency are better and more specifically covered. We believe that such an incorporation of environmental considerations into the purpose paragraph is most appropriate after a prior examination, and I refer in this connection to the proposal on which the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party stand together. SV's spokesman, Hallgeir H. Langeland, made himself more friendless than he needs to be today, as he pointed out that SV is not allowed to include environmental considerations in the purpose section now. So this is because the Left and some other parties believe that this is better protected by having a prior treatment before taking this in. State networks are governed by the State Enterprise Act, except for both the Administrative and Public Administration Act, despite the administrative nature of a number of the company's tasks. The left considers that the administrative law’s rules on guidance, information obligations and review procedures should apply to all the exercise of administrative tasks. It is disappointing that only the Right Party and the Progressive Party endorse the views of the Left in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e179	The government's proposal on energy law changes represents a necessary adjustment of the energy law after it has been in operation for 10 years. Energy laws led to a major conversion. One would go from a system with monopoly on the supply of power where prices were set by Stortinget and the local government, to a system with market-based power turnover. The reform was carried out without transitional arrangements, and one could not have a preliminary overview of all the factors necessary to regulate it. Energy laws were therefore designed as a law on powers, so that the Ministry and the NVE could operate through concessional arrangements according to the basic political objectives set by the Stortinget. These objectives are still a secure energy supply based on rational use of power resources. Energy development has now come so far that regulatory needs have become clearer. At the same time, the regulation has run counter to an increasing number of general rules where the concessionaires' rights and obligations in the individual cases are directly governed by the law or by the regulations. I think that there is now a need to anchor individual key functions directly in the law, thus creating a clearer legal basis and framework for regulation through concessions and regulations. There was a long political lack of commitment to reform. I am therefore pleased that a number of members of the Committee are now making it clear that the energy laws have given the desired results, and that Norway has been a transitional country in this area. In fact, we now see that other countries in many areas are looking for the Norwegian solution for the power market. At this time, power has been transformed into competition in production and the translation of power. At the same time, we have built up a comprehensive regulation of the monopoly business in the network. In particular, this applies to the regulation and organisation of the market which has taken place through the trading concession scheme, where the governance controls the network function as a natural monopoly, takes care of the interests of customers and ensures an economic rational turnover and use of electrical energy. In other words, deregulation is not the same as the absence of rules or frames. Even if the market mechanisms operate, this does not mean that the governance should not and must set a clear framework for the market. This is the task of the government through the energy laws. The government's proposed amendments to the concession obligation for electrical and district heating systems do not have multiples. From the Government's side, the proposal was meant as a clarification and clarification. The fact that the majority perceive this in another way is completely unproblematic. The changes in energy laws that Odelstinget is making today lead to a law that can help solve the challenges we will face in the energy sector in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e194	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e197	The representative Nordtun justified the opposition of the Workers' Party to the Government's proposal with an overall assessment, where they, among other things, have looked at the restructuring in this area. I would like to ask the Council of State what it is that the representative of Nordtun and the Workers' Party have registered here, which the Council of State itself had not discovered before submitting the matter. The council said that this defeat was unproblematic because the purpose was only a clarification. But does the Council not agree that his proposed amendment would lead to a simpler and more flexible treatment process both for the department and for the companies involved? With regard to the arguments against a change raised by the consultation process and by the LO Congress, there are exactly the same objections raised by the LO in its opinion to the Ministry, which the Ministry clearly rejects by stating that it is the concessionaire who will be responsible to the authorities and that this is unproblematic.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e206	I have to admit that this particular point that we're discussing here, I see as a detail that has very little to say. It has therefore not been particularly important to me that there has been a breakthrough at this point. Of course, once it has been evaluated in the Working Party’s largest group, it has been in close cooperation with the Council of State. I only take note that with the changes that otherwise take place in this sector, one did not want to make this decision at that time. I feel that I'm fine. The proposals that I have proposed are, in my opinion, a simplification. When one of our big group focuses on something else, I don't feel like it's a big problem. Nor is it unusual for a government to present cases that are not followed up on 100 pst. of the party or parties that are behind the government at any given time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e215	As I explained in my article, we in the Progress Party do not support the proposal to include energy in the Energy Act. We believe, of course, that those who buy the energy that exists in the market will be free to use it. We think this is a step in the wrong direction, and we're very sceptical of such a development. I would therefore challenge the Council of State whether he has thought about how a future development in the Energy Use Act is going to be. And in addition, if someone in the future wants, for example: putting heat cables in their driveway so as not to break their legs in winter, something like that could be covered by the use of energy, and will one then come with the index finger and say that this is no sensible use of energy, this is no longer allowed?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e225	It's like we're in Norway in a new situation. Energy that we have traditionally had plenty of, is now lacking. It should therefore be an advantage that we use that energy as efficiently and as efficiently as possible. So we want to have a system that also takes care of the interests of energy laws. But of course, it's not that we from the Labour Party will put a stop to special forms of energy. And what had to happen in the future, I think I'm just as little able to answer as the questioner was in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e232	Let me first warn the Council of State a little bit about calling the change that is being made for a detail. It was actually so that the SV and the Centre had the support of a group of tradesmen, a fairly large LO congress, and it was actually so that there was a strike in the EL-IT association with 6,000 people. Then I think I should be careful from the Workers' Party's side to say to the tradesman that it was a detail that a change in this. In fact, we in SV thought that this is one thing when we can make sure that we secure jobs in the districts, we guarantee competence, and we ensure that one does not get unnecessary privatisation. So it's definitely not a detail in my opinion. State councils are constantly in the middle of the best possible and most efficient use of energy — at the latest in the last line. That's the end of it. It's just the grips we have to take in relation to the gas power debate, that's the kind of thing you have to do to make sure that you don't get the production needs that the Workers' Party wants in relation to gas power. It's exactly the effective use, either in the form of water-borne heat – SV adopted a plan for it in the Storting today – or in the form that a caregiver to use energy efficiently in the total building mass in Norway. There is an enormous potential – many gas power plants. My question is therefore: why can't the Council of State suggest taking effective use of energy into the preliminary paragraph when it's obvious what he's talking about all the way? Why should we not have it as a goal in the paragraph? So there's no proposals from the government, only SV is proposing this today. And then it's with words and actions that once again the Labour Party comes to a head.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e243	I don't ignore the fact that this line revealed what is the difference between the Workers' Party and SV. For SV, it is important to have things in the purpose section, and therefore they believe that the problems are solved. I don't think it's that simple. There is a goal for this Government to be able to use the electricity and the energy we have otherwise, in the best possible and most efficient way possible. And I mean the energy balance and the situation that we've come up with, says that this argument is stronger than ever. But unlike Hallgeir Langeland, I don't see the contradictions that he's trying to construct between the most efficient use of energy, turning the energy from electricity to e.g. Water-borne heat, and the exploitation of some of our gas resources so that we can produce our electricity ourselves instead of importing impurity from abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e250	The Labour Party and the Centre parties have been united on several aspects of energy policy recently involving a conversion and which may have implications for the Energy Law. One is the conversion of energy communication and its follow-up — renewable energy sources, waterborne heat. Today we decide to ask for an action plan as well. The second is the question of mandatory green certification systems, with which the Government works-both. And the third is the request made by the Stortinget on the assessment of a system that could see more energy sources in the context, where other parties than the Workers' Party and the Centre parties were also involved. The three relationships should indicate that there was a review of the Energy Act, whether it provides sufficient incentives and framework conditions for these conversions. They will mean a quite significant change in Norwegian energy supply. And in this context, we have put forward a proposal for such a review, but I still want to challenge the Council of State in relation to this and ask – when you get the investigations on the table, both in terms of more energy sources in the context, and in terms of mandatory green certification systems – whether he will also assess the law in such a context and come back to the Storting with the necessary changes, so that they are adapted to a new and hopefully greener reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e259	There is a great deal of eagerness on the part of parties and representatives to take action that can lead to a better and more environmentally friendly energy supply. Of course, I am happy about that. At the same time, we have to put in the back of our minds what we've already done, and so it's our big deal in this room that we're going to create a new energy institution, Enova. It is intended that this energy institution should be informed of powers, and one of the first things that must be done is to go through the laws and regulations of the day and see if one has the laws and regulations and other means necessary to achieve the objectives set. So I'm a little skeptical that we should kind of take this job from them before they've got it all started. I feel that the changes that have taken place have been important, and now we have to allow this new energy institution to work on the basis of the guidelines and objectives drawn up by the Storting and the Government. So the work will show whether there is a need to make changes, or whether there is a need to have the kind of review that the Christian People's Party here calls for. But I want to make it clear that here a work has already begun, and that work is going to go too far for ten years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e264	The last replicator is Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e268	I would like to call it an open misunderstanding, because the Council of State Akselsen said in their previous reply to me that SV is only concerned with getting things into the preliminary paragraph, and then lay down on his back and look at the ceiling. Then one has not followed in the hour, or one does not want to follow in the hour. For SV, it's like one has a policy like a decision, and as one tries to control it, and so there's also a purpose paragraph in an energy law. Then you try to follow what is meant. I'm surprised that it's not also a strategy from the Government and the Labour Party. If one wants to, one can see that SV in Stortinget earlier today had concrete proposals that went to improve energy efficiency. The working party did not look at them once – simple grips that can generate 14TWh, corresponding to 25 Alta power plants, corresponding to a lot of gas power stations. Such solutions do not want the Labour Party to intervene properly. And that's exactly what's the difference between the Workers' Party and SV in environmental policy. First, the environment, prioritising such a solution, proposes measures to use energy efficiently, and one proposes measures to bring about the alternative renewable energy. The working party sits on its back together with the right, right and forward parts, and says that gas power solves the problem, and then let's not do that much with the other. That's the main challenge -- the choice of parties. So a set of parties that don't select the environment option. It is and has our Labour Party's problem for a very long time. Finally, when it comes to ownership, a brief question to the Council of State. In my own region sees a m.a. that Light Energy is partly purchased from German capital. Does the Council of State consider it natural to go in and streamline the concession law?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e279	Hallgeir H. Langeland was in a previous post today – whether it was a line or an post, I'm a little unsure – about this with a sense of reality. I have to admit that I think he has a strange sense of reality when it comes to the Labour Party's policy in this area. I would like to remind you that when we dealt with the energy message last spring, the Workers' Party was a supporting party for the dwindling government, and supporting them at all points with one exception, and it gave rise to the ever-increasing need to import power from abroad, where we had an alternative, to produce it even with cleaner and better energy sources in this country. And I want to make it clear that there is no contradiction between creating new production and taking care of and using the energy that you have access to today, in a more efficient way. From the Workers' Party's side, one has never said that gas power should solve all problems – on the contrary, it means that gas power should only be a supplement to all the other measures to be taken. I would also like to remind you that, among other things: SV's policy would undoubtedly lead to imports having to cover the consumption that gas power could possibly have covered. When it comes to the concession laws and the rules that apply there, I don't see any need to make any changes there, either in one direction or the other, as the situation is today. But it is clear that there are clear laws and regulations, so that if there is a large amount of foreign capital, and also other takeovers, then concession must be given, and therefore such purchase must always be approved by the governmental powers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e286	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. Jan Tore Sanner – the final speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e293	I hope I'm not going to be the last speaker, because I'm going to ask a few questions to the committee's chairman, Tore Nordtun. When the Labour Party government took over, it was said that the new government would renew and modernise Norway. Now we've looked into the matter after case where some government councils run ahead and say I want to, I want to, either LO or the left side of the party to make sure they don't get it done. What's new is that now it's not after an internal discussion in the party that the most modern state councils are being held in check, but here it's actually the entire Workers' Party's big group that imposes defeat on the Government. It is often said that a government that goes on many defeats is a weakened government, and it is a tired government. Now we feel that there is not a majority of opposition parties who are in charge of this defeat by the Government, but it is even the Workers' Party's own big group that is imposing this defeat on the Government. This was described by the Council of State as a detail. I'd like to ask the chairman of the committee if he sees this as a detail. In that case, it's a little funny that you're going to defeat the government and the government if there's a detail you're talking about here. Here I have to say that I agree with Hallgeir Langeland and LO that this is definitely no detail. This is a major and important issue, because it is about modernising Norway and the issue of obtaining the necessary competition for the benefit of consumers. But there's SV and right falling on different sides. Right-wing support in this matter is the Council of State, and I hope that it is not that the Workers' Party will force the whole of its party to defeat it, but that more from the Workers' Party will join with the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left and provide the necessary modernisation in this area. So I want to get the committee leader on the track. We have heard that it is after an overall assessment. But what's behind it? Is it LO that has forced the Workers' Party to change its position? Is it the case that the Workers' Group has seen something that the Council of State has not seen? Or is it that the traditionalists, or the left, in the Workers' Party are now on the offensive, and that the so-called modernisation line in the Workers' Party has been defeated?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e307	Jan Tore Sanner uses great war headlines in this case and talks about putting a terrible defeat on the Council of State, and that the Government and the Workers' Party's modernisation of the public sector have stopped completely, etc. etc. There is no reason to use such words and expressions. There are two paragraphs here – three if you also include a concession for district heating. The first section of these paragraphs states today ‘Concession for the construction and operation of installations for the production, transformation, transmission and distribution of high voltage electrical energy’. The proposal is subject to a concession ‘to build and own’. It's just the operation we're talking about. Based on an overall assessment of security of supply, follow-up of the grid and local knowledge of the district, we found that it was not right to change these paragraphs now. Jan Tore Sanner has been the case rapporteur for matters that the sitting government has promoted. I refer you here to the Statoil and the Dead Sea case, which we have also discussed today. I can point out on a case-by-case basis where we've actually done a lot to modernise, to create a better society, to change to have a proper industry, a forward-looking industry and a forward-looking production. This is a very small matter in this context, and it is not a matter of imposing any defeat. We've said that today we don't think it's right to change anything, because we want much more security for what we're doing. And when so much happens on this market, we want to have the overview before we take the next step forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e314	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 605]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e328	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 610]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e342	The attitude of the Church, Education and Research Committee today concerns changes to the Church Act, the Law on the Fund of the Information Society and the Burrowing Act. The amendments to the two former laws are a follow-up to the decision of the Grand Duchy on 29 March 2001, which asked the Government to propose a legal provision opening different experimental arrangements in the Church, and to legislate that profits from the sale of securities in the Information Society Fund can also be used for church purposes. A supplement is also proposed in Section 5 of the Church Act on Trials. The trials are limited to the organisation of the Council of Churches and the Council of Churches, the division of tasks between them and their composition. Thus, in the case of the Information Society Fund Act, it is proposed to clarify that the gains on the sale of securities held by the Fund are to be counted as returns. A majority is behind this proposal, while a minority will vote against this change, i.e. III in the vote. In the case of the Tombs Act, there are several changes, including: that the authority to settle matters concerning the transfer of the dead's ashes and bodies is transferred from the Bishop's Council to the Council of Churches, with the Council of Bishops as the Board of Appeal. Furthermore, amendments are proposed in respect of the right to provide for a tomb and who shall be responsible for the tomb. Furthermore, there are changes to the form requirements as regards permission to disperse the ashes of the wind instead of having excavating. There is a unanimous vote on the gravitational code.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e359	A brief comment on the amendment to the gravitational code: Until the entry into circulation of the ashes after the death of the wind was introduced under the current burial law, we had an absolute ban on this in Norway. The provision was designed in such a way that it meant in practice that you could not apply for ash spreading while you were alive. There have been very strong reactions to this. The Progress Party raised this matter as early as March 1999 with Minister of Church, Education and Research Jon Lilletun of the Christian People's Party. At the time, the law that opened the way for the spreading of ashes had worked for more than two years – and there had been a lot of reactions – but the then state council saw no need to follow up the initiative of the Progress Party. The Christian People's Party thus has little honor in this matter. It is, however, nice that the party now finds itself able to support the change the Progress Party pointed out the necessity of already over two years ago. We are pleased that the Labour Party Government is promoting this sensible proposal. We are also pleased that the legal form requirements, which have been absolute, are softening. We record that even though it has been clear from statements made by the survivors in several cases that the deceased had actually wanted ash spread, neither the county nor the department has had the opportunity to meet the applications due to the form requirements. This is a sad situation, and we think it's great that it's now softening up here. With regard to the rule of law on burial, the view of the Progressive Party is that these must generally be based on humility in relation to religious conviction, on due respect for the wishes of the deceased, on common sense and on public knowledge – in particular with regard to procedural rules. It must also be clear that these rules of procedure must be simple and easy to deal with. Hopefully the changes that are now taking place have been made in themselves. Finally, in the case of III, the comments show that the Party of Progress is moving towards this point. But our reason is not the same as the reason for the other parties that disagree. As will be seen in S. No. 187 for 2000-2001, our main concern about withdrawal from the fund is the lack of indexation. If you don't take this into account, III will open up such a large withdrawal of the fund that the real value in the long term will be able to go to zero.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e376	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e382	Odelstingen shall vote in cases 1-3.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e389	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Hilde Frafjord Johnson on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right, Progress Party and Left Proposal No. 2, by Hilde Frafjord Johnson on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Ventre party and the Left proposal No. 3, by Hilde Frafjord Johnson on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and Left Proposal No. 4, by Hilde Frafjord Johnson on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 5 and 6, by Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the Energy Act and to promote any legislative changes to ensure that more energy sources can be seen in the context and that account is taken of the development of new renewable energy sources, the development of waterborne heat, etc.’. Proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, says: ‘The Government is asked, in the context of the review of the Energy Act, to submit proposals for the adjustment of the Energy Act’s objective paragraph where environmental considerations and energy efficiency are better and more specifically covered.’ Proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, says: «The Government asks the Government in the regulation of the Energy Act § 3-4 nr. 5 cf. § 7-6 sets out clear requirements for safe and appropriate operation, as well as adequate competence in the context of the removal of operations. Such requirements should be strict in order not to create uncertainties about operational safety, maintenance and preparedness.» Proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals further limiting the possibility of privatising ownership in the power sector.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e478	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 1-2 shall be replaced by the following:The law shall ensure that the production, transformation, transmission, turnover, distribution and efficient use of energy is carried out in a manner adapted to the resilience and diversity of nature and that these activities are carried out in a socially rational manner, including taking into account the public and private interests affected.’; The progress bar has been warned that they are going against this setting. So that's going to be a little bit of a vote on the proposal from the Socialist Left Party first, and then over the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e572	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, from the Christian People's Party, Right, the Advance Party and the Left, to § 3-1, first paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 3-1, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Installations for the production, transformation, transmission and distribution of high voltage electrical energy may not be built or owned without a concession. The same applies to the conversion or extension of existing installations.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e618	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from Christian People's Party, Right, Advance Party and Left: ‘Section 3-2, first paragraph, is replaced by the following:In an area, concession may be granted to build and own installations for the distribution of electrical energy with voltage up to a level determined by the Ministry.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e635	President! I said I was wrong, I should have the voice for the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e642	The result will then be 41 votes for the recommendation from the Committee and 39 votes for the proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. This is followed by the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e776	The right hand side and the forward hand side have a warning that they are going towards the third last sentence of the term.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e812	There is now a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, Right, Advance Party and Left, to the first paragraph of Section 5-1. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 5-1, first paragraph, is replaced by the following:A district heating system cannot be built or owned without a concession. The same applies to the conversion and extension of district heating systems.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e1126	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e1135	The Act will be sent to the Creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e1177	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e1186	The Act will be sent to the Creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e1268	Right, Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Left have warned that they are going against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e1294	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e1303	The Act will be sent to the Creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30-lower.ana.ud133e1312	There is no record available.
