ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e69	The representatives Hallgeir H. Langeland and Arne Lyngstad, who have been on leave, have once again taken their seats. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Britt Hildeng from 20 November until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Ragnar Bøe Elgsaas, is hereby invited to attend during the period of leave.3. Ragnar Bøe Elgsaas is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Britt Hildeng.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e109	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 311]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e125	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 312]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e141	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 312]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e157	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 312]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e173	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 312]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e189	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 313]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e205	I shall briefly explain that there are two views on this matter from the Committee. As indicated in the suspension, all parties, except the Progress Party, support the accession to the IIC Inter-American Investment Company Agreement. IIC is an independent sister organisation of the Inter-American Development Bank, where Norway has been a member since 1985. The majority of the Committee considers that this investment company is an important complement to the development bank because it is so focused on supporting the establishment and modernisation of primarily small and medium-sized private enterprises. The objectives of the inter-American investment company to give the private sector a greater role in the development process, as well as the results it can point to, are in line with the Norwegian strategy for industrial development in the south. It is now two years since the Government chose to become a member of the Inter-American Investment Company, subject to parliamentary approval, which it now receives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e214	I would briefly like to explain that the Progress Party, which was the rapporteur for the case, has a different view. We see the need for this type of institution, but the fragmentation that we now see in more and more financial institutions does not necessarily seem to us to be a successful development. We can focus on, for example: The World Bank and other heavy institutions. We also see that not all other countries are necessarily involved in this initiative, for example. Canada has chosen to stand outside. In this context, we do not think that Norway, as a small country, needs to participate in any context in this area, and that we can also concentrate, in spite of all the limited resources we have, on the largest and heaviest institutions in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e219	Several have not asked for the word. The size has now come to the examination of case No. 8 on Agenda No 15th [[See page 313]] The matter being dealt with here has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objections have been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e241	The Annual Report on the work of the Nordic Council reminds us that it is half a century after Nordic cooperation was formalised on the occasion of the establishment of the Nordic Council. Since the establishment of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 1971, this body has also strengthened contacts and cooperation between people in the Nordic region. During this period, cooperation has undergone major changes. After the Cold War and the breakup of the Soviet Union, cooperation has been strengthened and strengthened through close cooperation with the Baltic States and North-West Russia. The European dimension of cooperation has also gradually been strengthened. The so-called Nordic group of wise men presented the report «Open to the World’s Winds» during the session in Reykjavik last year. The report refers to the overall trends in Nordic cooperation that need to be addressed in due time and the adjustments required. As a result of a comprehensive assessment and recommendations with which the report contributed, the Nordic Council, at its 53rd session in Copenhagen in 2001, adopted a new organisational and sample structure that will enter into force from the turn of the year. The new sample structure replaces the geographical samples with five sample sizes, among others. to achieve greater political grounding for Nordic issues in the national parliaments. The new structure provides a good starting point for continued Nordic cooperation. The enlargement of the EU and the expected entry into the Union of the Baltic countries will radically change the content of the neighbourhood policy. The impact of increased globalisation and the deepening of integration in Europe will increase the need for Nordic coordination in order to strengthen Nordic influence and to promote Nordic values and interests. Nordic cooperation is an important channel for making Nordic views known and for promoting Nordic interests with a view to important processes in the EU and the EEA. It is important to strengthen the contacts, the exchange of information and the potential impact on the EU, which will then take place through this close Nordic cooperation. At the same time, it is important that the growing international element of Nordic cooperation does not lead to a shift away from traditional cooperation. Nordic cultural cooperation in a broad sense must remain the cornerstone of Nordic cooperation. It is therefore worrying that the Nordic cultural budget has been cut. This has weakened culture's ability to meet the objectives of the Nordic cultural agreement. This needs to be corrected in 2002 and not least to focus on children and young people in the cultural field. The report entitled ‘The Rights of the Nordics’ was presented at the Nordic Council’s session in Copenhagen in October 2001. The report shows that the Nordic authorities have little or no knowledge of common Nordic agreements and regulations on free movement in the Nordic region. This creates unnecessary problems for both businesses and individuals who want to establish themselves in the Nordic neighbouring countries. The final report will be available in March next year, and follow-up will be important. On the positive side, however, we should note the establishment of the Nordic service telephone ‘Hallo Norden’, where northern residents who are stuck in the bureaucracy can call and get help. This is a very useful measure. Internal Nordic cooperation will always be the basic and most important part of Nordic cooperation. In this context, it is excellent that the Strategy for a Sustainable Nordic Region – with a 20-year time perspective – has been adopted. It is important for the Government to follow up the report under the Presidency of the Council of Ministers in 2002. A new strategy for close cooperation has also been put forward, where the focus of cooperation will now be shifted more towards North-West Russia and the Russian regions just east of the Baltic. The background for this turnaround in the Nordic neighbourhood programme is the expected eastern enlargement of the EU and the general political, economic and social development of the neighbourhoods. In the message that we have for consideration, the Government has also given an account of the cooperation in the Arctic Council, the Barents Council, the Baltic Council and the West Nordic Cooperation. This is useful and it is essential to coordinate the work of the various regional forums. It is desirable to explore the possibilities for better coordination of neighbourhood activities. It will also be important that the work of the EU on the northern dimension is based on and exploited by the activities of the regional cooperation organisations in the north. As far as the Barents region is concerned, it is certainly right that the peoples of the peoples of the peoples who have been involved have had the greatest success, while economic cooperation has not been equally successful. The reasons for this are Russia’s difficult economic situation, bureaucratic barriers to trade and the fact that the infrastructure is built for North-South contacts. However, Russia’s economy is improving, and there is an emerging optimism among Norwegian enterprises that have established themselves — or are planning to establish itself — in the Barents region. This should definitely provide the basis for increased economic cooperation. Barrier cooperation should be strengthened generally through increased project cooperation, both at central and regional level. It is in place to give tribute to the Barents Secretariat, which has built up a significant contact network in and considerable competence in North-West Russia. This work should be further developed. The integration efforts in Europe and the changed security architecture mean that the Nordic countries today have more common foreign and security policy interests than before. Terrorism actions on 11 September this year have updated this even more. Through the Northern CAPS, the Nordic countries have established close cooperation in relation to international peace operations under the auspices of the United Nations. This is joyous. It is also desirable that the SHIRBRIG concept be further developed with a view to strengthening the ability to deploy forces rapidly under the auspices of UN-led peacekeeping operations. The following proposals for key areas of action have been submitted in the 2002 Nordic Presidency Programme: children and youth food safety sustainable development in the Nordic and neighbouring regions This is what the majority of the Committee considers to be good and important areas of action. The Progress Party has chosen to withdraw from the joint comments on Nordic cooperation, comments by the other parties in the Stortinget. The Progress Party had a somewhat softer shape on its position on the Nordic Council last year, where doubts were raised about the usefulness of the cooperation. This year, the Progress Party is back to its wording two years ago, and believes that the Nordic Council should be laid down or reorganised in its present form. But it's just the Progress Party that's at this point of view. I would recommend the recommendation from the committee to the decision in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e289	The case rapporteur was very thorough in his review of Nordic cooperation, and we from the Workers' Party agree with everything she has said. That's why I just want to comment on one thing. After the session of the Nordic Council in Copenhagen a few weeks ago, the headlines in the newspapers were: Grensenlöst bad. I think we should take that seriously. The headlines referred to Ambassador Norrback's interim report on the practical follow-up to the many cooperation agreements that the Nordic Council has established for almost 50 years. Now it's like the journalists often write in unnecessary capitals, and it's happened to a certain extent here as well. Nordic cooperation is a lot and a lot, and very much works well. And it's also so well-organized that we might not think about it at all. But there is cause for concern when the Nordic countries experience that Nordic agreements do not work and that they must fight against a strong bureaucracy. It should be completely unnecessary, and there we politicians have a job to do. Norrback's report takes on board a number of proposals for improving Nordic cooperation. We who sit here in this Chamber have to face it as a challenge and ensure that the results of almost 50 years of Nordic cooperation are followed up and get really solid solid in the parliaments of all Nordic countries. We can no longer rest on the fact that we were given passport freedom and the common labour and education market, that it is the only thing left in practice of Nordic cooperation. And I hope – when this report is further analysed and the cooperation ministers hopefully come up with some amendments on how to achieve better and closer Nordic cooperation – that next year, when we have the 50th anniversary, we can say that we are going to go new 50 years for the benefit of the citizens of the Nordic region, because that is actually why we are doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e300	In the Communication on Nordic Cooperation, the Government recalls that the next year is 50 years since Nordic cooperation was formalised upon the establishment of the Nordic Council. And in 1971 we got the Nordic Council of Ministers. Right-wing believes that there is reason to be both satisfied and proud of much of what has been achieved through Nordic cooperation. But I must say I agree with the previous speaker in her emphasis on the importance of following up Ambassador Norrback's report on the practical follow-up of the agreements and legislation established to benefit the Nordic population. Then we have to make sure that the agreements and legislation work to the benefit of the people of the Nordic region. Nordic cooperation was, in fact, in integration and working for greater freedom and mobility across borders, ahead of European cooperation for a long time. We must say that time is over. The driving force behind European integration is the EU, and the EU is at the forefront of both depth and breadth. But it doesn't make Nordic cooperation less valuable or less important in the Right's opinion, rather on the Norwegian side. In addition to the self-esteem of cooperation in the Nordic region, based on the common culture and historical and value-added background we have, Nordic cooperation in the opinion of the Right is an important channel for Norway towards important processes in the EU. We need to use Nordic cooperation actively to make our analyses, our priorities and interests known to the Nordic EU countries. This is also a broad consensus in the Norwegian political environment. In this context, I think there is reason to dwell a little on what influence the Nordic Presidency of the European Union has proved to give to Nordic values and priorities. The Finnish Presidency of the European Union was given the northern dimension on the EU agenda. The EU’s northern dimension and its content can lead the whole EU’s policy towards both the Baltic Sea region and the Barents region, and not least for EU cooperation with Russia in different areas. In further work on the northern dimension of the EU, it is very important that Norway actively uses the arenas represented by the Nordic Councils and organisations, the cooperation forums in the neighbourhoods, to contribute to our experience and interests and our perspective in this important work. It is about nothing less than integrating Russia into the European cooperation structures and contributing to further positive democratic and economic development in Russia. New opportunities are now also opening up to focus on North-West Russia and the Barents region as the Nordic Council of Ministers' neighbourhood strategy shifts more towards this geographical area. In the past, the right has been concerned that a stronger Norwegian involvement in the Baltic Sea region is a prerequisite for increasing the involvement of the other Nordic countries in relation to the challenges associated with North-West Russia and the North. So now North-West Russia has received increased attention, and we need to take this advantage of it in order to move further into the work on environmental challenges, which obviously have to be at the top of that list of priorities, but also challenges related to the overall political, economic and social development of the neighbourhoods. The right has also been concerned that Norway and the other Nordic countries can and must contribute to the development and development of civil society in Russia in general and in North-West Russia in particular. Party cooperation, cooperation between non-governmental organisations, contributions to the establishment of non-governmental organisations and other types of people for people-to-people cooperation must be central. I hope that Norway can help to ensure that this is now also a Nordic priority in the area cooperation. So to the new sample structure of the Nordic Council. The fact that a new restructuring of Nordic cooperation was necessary only five years after the last structure was established is probably an expression of two things. First of all, it's an expression that conditions in our part of the world are also changing. The Baltic countries are known to be entering the EU, and there is no indication of its significance for the northern dimension of the EU and for Nordic cooperation in the long term. We may have a debate for a few years on whether we should extend the Nordic Council to the Baltic countries. The second aspect of this restructuring is that Nordic cooperation is dynamic, and because we have a long tradition, we are able to adapt to new conditions. The new trade unions, on the right, believe that a good starting point for further Nordic cooperation and that it strengthens cooperation better than it did in the past, in the national parliaments. But, as we also point out in the setting, we should like to see this subject structure also contain a foreign and security policy selection. I believe it is clear that all countries' populations are increasingly feeling that they are living in a national and an international community. The development of the security architecture in Europe and the increased integration of defence and security policies in the EU mean that we should be able to take better advantage of the community of interests and the common cultural and value base we have with the Nordic countries. The right considers that a separate foreign and security policy selection could have better addressed the need for Nordic dialogue, coordination and policy-making in this area. All Nordic countries face major challenges in the Nordic countries, in the neighbourhoods, in Europe and globally. During the Nordic Council's session in Copenhagen, it was not surprising that the fight against international terrorism was also an important topic for the debates. I would like to end by saying that the Nordic countries should and should contribute to the fight against international terrorism. We need to use the cooperation structures we have established to improve the coordination and coordination of our joint actions. For example, the Nordic countries may: play an important role in consolidating cooperation with Russia in this important fight. That is why I would like to stress something to the Danish Prime Minister, Nyrup Rasmussen, underlined in Copenhagen, related to the Task Force group set up under the Baltic Sea Council to combat international crime, that the work being done there must also be seen in the light of our common effort to combat international terrorism. We also need to integrate this perspective into Barents' cooperation and into our other cooperation in northern Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e328	We see today a world that is changing, where what is happening requires rapid decisions to be made. It is necessary to seek to avoid too many intermediates between those taking the decisions and those over which the decisions are taken. As I see it, over time there has been an ever-increasing bureaucracy that is making the way long and unwieldy to decision making. 11 September also shows that we must have bodies that are capable of action and that can make rapid decisions. The Progress Party believes that the Nordic Council in its present form should be set up or reorganised. We think it is natural to have broad cooperation between the Nordic countries, and especially at government level, but the result of many years of parliamentary cooperation at the Nordic Council is small. We would also like to point out that there is extensive parliamentary cooperation in many other European and international organisations, such as the United Nations. Council of Europe, OSCE, NATO and IPU. The Progress Party does not want to reduce Nordic cooperation, but looks at – and believes – Nordic cooperation completely independently of the function and existence of the Nordic Council. The financial costs, which amount to approx. 187 million. crowns, have little or no measurable effect. We therefore believe that these means should be used for more measurable measures. There appears to be unclear criteria for how, for example: assistance funds for environmental measures shall be allocated. As a result, very strong companies have received Norwegian support for environmental measures. Not long ago, we saw a Russian company with billions of profits, but where Norway is helping to clean up after pollution. Throughout the work of the various sectors in the Nordic Council and Nordic cooperation, these are bodies that work to a large extent with a clear anchoring of the policies pursued within the EU. As Norway is not a member of the EU, we are faced with a situation that is sidelined by the area of interest represented by the majority of Member States, and have the limitations that decisions taken involve binding political decisions that must be in line with EU rules. The Progress Party will stress that the most fruitful Nordic cooperation takes place through the many informal contacts created via the private market in the context of trade and travel. Private organisations also have valuable cross-border contacts in the Nordic region. The same is true of our universities and colleges. Also at government level, it may be of great value to become acquainted with the experience of other Nordic countries and to find common solutions, not least in terms of legislation. However, we strongly doubt the value of parliamentary contact. This is especially true as long as we are not a member of the EU. Experiences appear to show that the other Nordic countries do not pay particular attention to the pursuit of Norwegian interests within the EU. The Progress Party believes that the main focus of the Nordic Presidency Programme for 2002 should be to work to wind up the Nordic Council in its current form and look at opportunities to ensure Nordic cooperation in other ways. We will therefore make the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to take initiatives towards the other Nordic countries to close the Nordic Council.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e348	As a new member of the Nordic Council, I have to say that I was surprised at how enormous it was to get into, and how much was going on in this forum. And when I hear the debate, I have to agree with several of those who have had posts here. I have to say I am surprised at the Progress Party, which does not see the value of our cooperation in the Nordic region. I think it'll almost be historyless if we don't have close and good cooperation between these countries, as it's been for every year in different ways. But I want to point to some sides that I think we have to do something about if this cooperation is going to be good. The first is that we become more clear about what we want – what will the Norwegian big business with the Nordic Council? In the first meeting that I have now attended at the Nordic Council, I thought it seemed something too random what we should do, what Norwegian interests we should take care of, and what we would have the effect of a meeting of the Nordic Council. Now it may be because I am new and did not have enough insight into how this was going on, but I thought this meeting seemed something too random. That's why I think we need to get together and before the meetings of the Nordic Council get better at deciding what we want to achieve with it. The second thing I want to say is go on with the width. I think the width of things is formidable. I think we are embracing enormously, and I think it would be an advantage – with the scarce resources that we have, both human and in terms of money – if you could have turned something in and concentrated on the most important things. Then the matters that were considered less important had to be removed. In that way, I think it's more realistic to go further in some important areas. The third – and I have heard that there are several people who have taken up this – is going on with the implementation regime. In the Nordic Council, there is a great deal to be said, but there is relatively little action to be taken. And it's clear that when more people who have experience from the Nordic Council have been up here and pointed it out, I think it's a hugely important job for Norway, which is now headed by the Nordic Council, and for our minister, who is present in the Chamber today, to address just what we have to decide to do in order to get a system where we mean a little less, but implement a lot more.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e359	Nordic cooperation is very strong in the Nordic countries and can well be a model for other regions of Europe. In a region with as close a common interest as the Nordic region, all countries need and benefit from consultation and cooperation. This applies both in relation to the integration efforts in Europe and in relation to developments in the global arena. For Norway, Nordic cooperation is very useful. It builds bridges between Nordic EU members and EEA members, and Nordic countries actively cooperate on EU/EEA matters in order to safeguard common interests in European policy. The government fully agrees with the Committee number, which points out that globalisation and deepening integration increase the need for Nordic coordination. The Nordic EU prime ministers have now taken the consequences and have agreed to hold regular consultations before each European Council summit. And the prime ministers of the Nordic EU members agree that they have a special responsibility for information to Norway and Iceland. In this way, this is in stark contrast with the claim made by the representative of Stensaker that the EU countries in the Nordic region almost do not care. At the joint Prime Minister’s meeting in Copenhagen during the session, the Nordic cooperation on sustainable development was also emphasised, in particular, towards the Johannesburg Summit next autumn, which could provide the basis for increased and committed international cooperation in this area. This close Nordic cooperation is also important for rapid alerting and attention in European issues where there is no matching interest. Then it is especially important to know your neighbors well. I would like to highlight the positive importance of the Nordic Council as an important meeting place and partner for the Nordic Council of Ministers, and I would like to invite close and good cooperation with parliamentarians, of course first and foremost with the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council. In the Nordic world, we know each other and can say openly what we mean. It is important to drive matters forward in a common dynamic between the Council and the Council of Ministers, between the Nordic Council and the governments and parliaments of each country. I want to spend a little time in this post to ensure that in 2002 Norway will be chaired by the Nordic Government. It includes both formal cooperation within the Nordic Council of Ministers and informal cooperation between foreign, defence and development ministers. During the Nordic Council's session in Copenhagen just three weeks ago, Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik presented the Norwegian Presidency Programme, a programme that shows to a great extent that Nordic cooperation is looking ahead. The future is the key to Norway’s governance of government cooperation in 2002. Children and young people are one of the priority areas of the Norwegian Presidency Programme, which we have called ‘The Nordics of Tomorrow’. Today's children and young people are the Nordics of tomorrow. Let me say it this way: even though children and young people make about 25 pst. of the population of our countries today, they make up 100 pst. of our future. We must take care of our own future, and that is why we put children and young people at the top of the agenda. We will strengthen cooperation on child and youth policy issues. We want to improve the growth and living conditions of vulnerable children and young people in the Nordic region. The Presidency will shed light on the living conditions of poor families with children. We want to give child and youth work a clear neighbourhood dimension. We will focus our efforts on the health and living conditions of children and young people in North-West Russia and the Baltic States. There, we will focus on the protection of infectious diseases, preventive health measures, measures for disabled children, measures for street children and children at risk of expulsion and sexual abuse, and measures for children under public care. We must further combat racism and xenophobia and develop a secure identity in a multicultural Nordic region. Nordic cooperation shall promote interest, knowledge and respect between people with different social and ethnic backgrounds in the Nordic region. Norway will invite a broad Nordic ministerial meeting to discuss cooperation, responsibility and priority for children and young people. Food security is an important political issue in all Nordic countries, and with our common interests, enhanced cooperation between the Nordic countries on this will be of great benefit to all of us. Food security is therefore the second main issue of the Norwegian Presidency. We want to create a political platform for food security, and the Nordic countries must bring together their forces. Then we can get through to international forums where food safety criteria and standards are determined. We would therefore like to draw up a Nordic Consumer Policy Action Programme. This shall increase the influence of consumers on the formulation of food policy. We will further prioritise the implementation of food proposals in the Nordic sustainable development strategy, and we will improve the dialogue between producers, consumers and authorities. The ambitious, labour-intensive and comprehensive work in this area will lead the Nordic countries to discuss and adopt an action plan on food security in the Nordic region already at the food ministers’ meeting in 2002. With the Nordic 20-year strategy for sustainable development in the Nordic region, as one of the first regions in the world, we have a common platform on how to meet the environmental challenges with long-term policies and cooperation. The follow-up to the Nordic Sustainable Development Strategy is also the third main issue of the Norwegian Presidency. We will work towards a successful follow-up of the strategy through coordinated national and Nordic efforts. We will get local authorities, businesses and non-governmental organisations to take responsibility for implementation. We will focus on how Nordic cooperation and interaction can strengthen work in the marine environment. At the North Sea Conference in Bergen next March, we will take the first steps to establish an ecosystem-based management of the North Sea. Together with the Baltic Sea countries, we will contribute to the establishment of a test area to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective way in the Baltic Sea region. Norway will work to ensure that Nordic countries present joint initiatives at the UN Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg in 2002. The Norwegian government is looking forward to leading the Nordic government cooperation, and personally I am pleased to grasp it. Nordic cooperation shall continue to be relevant and interesting for all Nordic countries and for the benefit of all those living in the Nordic region and our neighbourhoods. The previous Norwegian Presidency in 1997 gave high priority to finding forms of good cooperation between official and voluntary cooperation in the Nordic region. A strategy for this cooperation was presented and adopted by the Nordic Council in 1998. During 2002, we will ensure that we get a first assessment of the initiatives taken by the Council of Ministers to strengthen the voluntary sector’s opportunities for cooperation with the official part of Nordic cooperation. The situation of non-governmental organisations in the neighbourhoods and opportunities for closer cooperation will also be addressed in 2002. In the Nordic region, we have considerable knowledge of the Nordic association life and its historical roots. But we lack sufficient knowledge of immigrants' association activities. For this reason, initiatives have been taken for joint nordic research in this area and the first results are expected in the spring of 2002. Better knowledge provides better opportunities for closer dialogue and cooperation with migrant organisations and their members. In addition, I am sure that the issues Norway has chosen to prioritise in its presidency will be able to involve the voluntary organisations. Removing or reducing border barriers arising from different national rules or regulatory administration remains an important task. The task requires a continuous political light on such issues. For many reasons better coordination of laws and regulations is required in the Nordic region. The growing level of border regional cooperation, which is now perhaps the most visible around Øresund, makes the need for coordination very topical. The problems need to be addressed across the Nordic region, as border-regional rules create new administrative boundaries within countries. Moreover, the need is further reinforced by the fact that more and more people will live and work in more than one country as a result of the Nordic and European integration and the growing cooperation between enterprises and enterprises in the Nordic region. During the Nordic Council session, Ambassador Ole Norrback presented an investigation, as several have mentioned, focusing on problems that individuals may experience. The rapporteur, Mr Haga, mentioned this in particular. Norrback’s investigation focused on problems that individuals may experience when crossing the boundaries of working or living in another Nordic country. Norrback's report aroused interest in the media, and at my discretion, the media might have had the wrong focus. As Norrback says in his report, it describes part of Nordic cooperation. The report is not finished, but the media produced Nordic cooperation as a failure, and with respect to reporting, it may tell more about the lack of history in the media than about the lack of results in Nordic cooperation. It was an unreasonable conclusion, and Ole Norrback has even refuted such an interpretation of the report. But I agree that more Nordic cooperation and better coordination of national legislation are required. The Norrback investigation points to an important problem, the fact that there is still a lack of knowledge about the current Nordic agreements and legislation, and where this knowledge exists. This failure of our administrative bodies needs to be corrected. It will be an important task for the Norwegian Presidency to ensure that Norrback’s descriptions and his final report, expected to be completed by 1 March 2002, are followed up and deliver positive results. The government will keep the Great Government's delegation informed about this, and I noticed that the representative Brørby clearly underlined these things in his post. Cooperation with the neighbourhoods is an important part of Nordic cooperation, and here I fully agree with the representative of Julie Christiansen that close-up cooperation will have a strong political pressure. The revised neighbourhood strategy adopted by the Council at the end of October of the session does not alter the geographical framework of cooperation. Area cooperation will continue to cover the three Baltic countries, North-West Russia, Kaliningrad and the Arctic region. As far as Kaliningrad is concerned, the Council of Ministers is negotiating with the Russian authorities on the establishment of an information point enabling concrete activities to be started in the area. Norway will focus on following up the proposal of the revised neighbourhood strategy that the centre of gravity of the establishment should be gradually shifted to the Russian neighbourhood. Strengthening dialogue with the Russian authorities will be an important task. As the Committee notes in its position, better coordination of neighbourhood activities is important, and more initiatives have been taken in this context, including: in the Baltic Sea Council and from the Norwegian side. At its last meeting in June this year, the Baltic Sea Council adopted guidelines on the structure and working methods for better coordination of work. On the basis of a report by the Nordic Research Institute NORDREGIO on the possibilities for better coordination of regional council activities, Norway invited the Presidency of the Arctic Council, the Barents Council, the Baltic Sea Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers to an informal consultation meeting in September this year. In my view, no more investigations are needed, but the day-to-day work of these four regional councils focuses on the need for coordination. In June of this year, I attended a major conference in the Faeroe Islands on the protection of the sea and the sustainable exploitation of resources in the North Atlantic. It once again gave me a strong reminder that we must not forget the Western Nordic cooperation and the opportunities for closer cooperation with the Western neighbours of the Nordic countries. It is therefore good that the Council of Ministers should now assess projects with the coastal areas of the western neighbours. From the Norwegian side, we will therefore actively consider appropriate cooperation projects with the Western neighbourhoods, i.e. during the Presidency period. Shetland, Orknæ Islands, Hebrides, Scotland and the Eastern Canadian provinces. Finally, with reference to the Committee's comment on the cultural budget, I would like to say that the Government is very committed to maintaining the strength of one of the main pillars of Nordic cooperation. Norway has not wanted cuts in the budget, and we have been positive about an increase in common Nordic resources when it has been possible to do so. Norway, under its Presidency in 2002, will work towards maintaining the cultural centre of the Council of Ministers’ overall activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e422	Unlike Ryan, I have resigned from the Nordic Council after a four-year period. There can certainly be reason for reflections on both the scope of work and the work as such, and the priorities that are being made. But it does so when the Nordic Council continuously, as I have experienced and registered it. I think it is important for Norway, as the Council of State has stressed at the outset, to have Nordic cooperation, because it gives us both information and influence in relation to our neighbours who are members of the EU, so that we can get this mutual information. This communication on Nordic cooperation also shows the extent and extent of Nordic cooperation, a cooperation that I believe is deeply anchored in most people. I would very much like to stress that the Nordic region is not just a geographical area but is based on a Nordic community of values. It has also been important in the work we have been doing in our neighbourhood policy, to export – to call it that – the Nordic way of organising society: the well-functioning welfare state combined with market economy and a high level of public participation. Nordic cooperation is essentially a matter of finding common solutions to common problems based on the Nordic community. One area that I would like to highlight as an example from the period I have been in the Nordic Council was the initiative, which was also taken from the Norwegian side, in order to get joint action against coerciveness – a field in which a large-scale work was done and which was also addressed the last time the Nordic Council was assembled. Although Nordic cultural cooperation in a broad sense, as the Committee puts it in its position, will continue to be the cornerstone of Nordic cooperation, the Nordic Council has also been increasingly influenced by neighbourhood policy during this period, not least as regards the Nordic relationship with Russia and the EU. From the Norwegian side, as I stressed, we also benefit greatly from this work in relation to the neighbourhoods not only in EU/EEA matters, but also in the contacts with the Baltic countries and Russia. And I think not least the Nordic Presidency periods, where Finland and Sweden put both the Nordic and the EU's northern dimension on the agenda, have been very useful also for Norway. The Nordic Council has made a strong commitment to providing the EU's northern dimension with substance and chiselling out priority areas and programmes. It has been important for us – and I have been so lucky that I have been allowed to work specifically on it – to contribute to the European Union’s northern dimension placing the greatest emphasis on North-West Russia and Barents cooperation. Increased parliamentary cooperation between the Nordic countries, EU parliamentarians and parliamentarians from the Baltic countries and perhaps not least regional dumas are on the agenda, together with plans to link funding organisations to projects already proposed for North-West Russia. I believe that the problems in North-West Russia can be solved in the long term in active cooperation between Russia, the EU, EU partners in the EEA, i.e. Norway and Iceland, and of course also the United States, Canada, the Barents region and areas covered by Arctic cooperation. A strong EU exposure in the Barents region and North-West Russia is also desirable for security policy reasons in a broad sense. The deeper Russia is involved in European integration processes, the stronger the links between countries. Russia is and will therefore become a key element in the development of a northern dimension in the EU. Here, as I said, the Nordics have a very special responsibility. It is also important for us that work on the northern dimension must be based on taking advantage of the activities of the regional cooperation bodies in the north. The changed security architecture in Europe also means that the Nordic countries today have more common foreign and security policy interests than before, and that security policy debates have also been held. I would refer to what previous speakers have said about it, and just in addition to what the Committee says that the experience of SFOR in Bosnia and KFOR in Kosovo shows that the Nordic countries have the will to make significant military forces available for peacekeeping efforts if necessary. Finally, I believe that civil and military preparedness measures and security policies are becoming more important in the future cooperation in the Nordic region, and this is, of course, due to what happened on 11 September. In the fight against international terrorism too, I believe that we will have increased cooperation. I would like to join in what Julie Christiansen said in this regard, that we must integrate this perspective into Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e446	Nordic cooperation has gone through different phases over the nearly 50 years of the Nordic Council. The Christian People's Party believes that the political cooperation developed between the Nordic countries over these years, both through joint projects and actions, the formulation of a common policy in a number of areas, and also through the informal network and friendship built between politicians in the Member States, are very valuable. For Norway, participation in the Nordic Council has not become less important as other Nordic countries have become members of the EU. Norway, as a non-EU member, may be the country where the importance of participating in the Nordic Council is greatest. There seems to be something urgent for me when the Progress Party now briefly proposes that the Nordic Council should be laid down. For us, it is important that we can help to develop a common Nordic policy that can be promoted in the EU. The Nordic Council thus becomes a very important channel for promoting Norwegian interests into the EU. The contact we have through the Nordic Council is important to us, both in terms of the exchange of information and its impact on the EU. Of course, this is especially true when one of the Nordic countries has the EU Presidency. When the Progress Party now proposes to lay down the Nordic Council, I think it is rather strange. In fact, I think that the Progress Party could be content to propose that Norway sign up, and not start to engage in the fact that the other Nordic countries must also end their cooperation. If Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Iceland want to continue their cooperation, Norway should refrain from proposing that this cooperation should be concluded. And I wonder: if the Progress Party should have a similar view of, for example, the Council of Europe, does that mean that the Progress Party would not be careful to propose that Norway should resign, but that the 42 other European countries should also end their cooperation? It is in this way that we now need to understand the proposals made by the Progress Party for the Nordic Council to be closed. Can we not allow the other Nordic countries to continue working together, and can the Progress Party also propose that Norway withdraw? As can be seen from St.meld. No 56 for 2000-2001, cooperation has been developed in a wide range of areas, and I would like to highlight in particular what we can do together in the environmental sector. For several years, Nordic Environment Ministers have sought to influence internationally on environmental issues of common interest. Pollution knows no borders, and it is important that we together can help to get the polluter-pays principle crushed. It is also stated in the Communication that it is part of the basis of Nordic cooperation. The release of technetium 99 from Sellafield in the United Kingdom and La Hague in France threatens the marine environment throughout the Nordic region, but in particular Norway. These are issues that the Nordic Environment Ministers have raised again and again in polite forms, in particular to the British Government. I have to say that I have had a new hope now after the Environment Minister Børge Brende has put this so strongly on the agenda, but I think it is important that we can get a global front from the Nordic side in terms of the attacks on delicate organisms in the marine areas. We know that radioactivity accumulates. The half-life is 200,000 years. It doesn't just threaten a clean environment, but it threatens our export interests. Then it's very important that we work together in the Nordic region for a binding Convention on the Environment. Actually, we're missing that. We have approx. 130 conventions on the environment now of an international nature, but only two of them are binding. It is the Kyoto Agreement – at least it is intended to become binding when it is to be ratified – and the Convention on Biological Diversity. But we need a European Convention on the Environment and Penalties. Protection of the sea is very important, and it is a common Nordic task. I therefore think it was nice to hear the Council of State talk about possible cooperation projects involving Shetland, Orknøjene and Hebrides. That would mean that radioactivity and pollution would have to be on the agenda. Since it is written in all the documents that there is agreement in the Nordic region that the polluter should pay, we have serious defects in our laws, not least in the international regulations. We have rules for people and companies, but when it comes to states and state legal responsibility, we lack regulations. That is why it is so important to have a binding agreement. And one of the most important challenges for Nordic cooperation will, in my view, be whether we can contribute to a binding convention of a European nature, initially for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e465	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e468	The representative Rise asked some questions at the proposal of the Progress Party, where, as correctly described, we are taking up the whole function and position of the Nordic Council. If the option were for Norway to sign up, we do not see it as an alternative. Norway is part of the Nordic region, Norway will remain part of the Nordic region, and we – as we have also pointed out in the past – want close Nordic cooperation. What we are questioning is the parliamentary dimension through the Nordic Council. My question to Rise will be if not also the Christian People's Party sees that things can be done better, and that it might be done in another way so that we can get the dynamics, the efficiency and the results of Nordic cooperation that we all agree we want. The fact that Norway sits on the sidelines by being left alone does not make us look like a good solution. And if, after a thorough debate on the future of the Nordic Council, you want to continue with the Nordic Council in its present form, the Progress Party is of course also committed to Norway participating in the existing arenas.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e476	Of course, in the Christian People's Party we see opportunities to improve cooperation at the Nordic Council and to see if we can get more concrete actions and projects and more food-efficient policies out of this cooperation. But I think it's a completely different way of formulating it than what we can read from the proposal of the Progress Party, in which it is actually proposed that the Government should take the initiative to close the Nordic Council – sentence. And when we hear now that the Progress Party is open to continuing cooperation at the Nordic Council if the others think we should keep it, I really don't understand the meaning of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e481	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e484	Many representatives from this pulpit highlight the importance of cooperation between the Nordic countries. Of course I'm a follower of that. It is therefore strange that the political parties of the same representatives are doing what they can to prevent, for example, from doing so. an open market. This is made visible, inter alia: by being so high in Norway as to prevent the free flow of goods and services that would be natural between Nordic countries. I refer to the increasing trade that Nordics are now doing in Sweden, without the Norwegian authorities seeing the link between price and demand. Norway has also provided for the exclusion of cheap goods from abroad, which do not harmonise with a view to trade between countries, for which there are so many. With regard to security policy and military cooperation, I would like to point out the need for a strong defence as demonstrated by the latest developments in the world. It is therefore strange that those who are so keenly committed to defending peace are not willing to grant the necessary funds in the draft budget that is now available. With regard to the Nordic Council, we have only expressed our opinion on the Nordic Council and the simplification of the system, and not on the other Nordic bodies. Our opinion is to simplify and streamline, to work together in a better way than it is today. And that's what our proposal is about, that you go together and see if the Nordic Council can be reorganised – and if not, shut down.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e493	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 313]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e501	Then we can go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e892	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-16.ana.ud259e907	During the debate, Mr Stensaker put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to take initiatives towards the other Nordic countries to close the Nordic Council.’
