ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e69	The representatives Siri Hall Arnøy and Haakon Blankenborg, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The representative Knut Storberget will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e80	On behalf of the representatives of Gunn Karin Gjul, Signe Øye, Anne Helen Rui and myself, I would like to make suggestions to postpone the implementation of the law on Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e85	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary, and it will be safe – continue beyond the time of regulation. 15 to the current map has been completed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e103	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Management, the President will propose that the debate on the budgetary position be divided into two, so that the framework areas 1 and 2 are first dealt with and then the framework area 3, the Ministry of Culture. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that each debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 30 minutes, Advance Party 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes at the end of both debates. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e118	First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for constructive and good cooperation on the budget. There has been a demanding process, which has challenged us in many ways, but I think we have come well into port. The Government parties agreed with the Workers' Party on the budgetary frameworks 1, 2 and 3. The result shows that the Government has received broad support for the broad lines and priorities of family policy, equality, consumer policy and the necessary conversion and modernisation of the public sector. In examining the State budget, the Government has been committed to providing the best possible basis for lower interest rates. The decision of the Bank of Norway this week to lower the interest rate by 0.5 pst. confirms that it was right for the Co-operation Board to maintain the tightness of the budget. There are many individuals, families and municipalities who struggle to make ends meet because of high interest rates, high taxes and taxes. Lower interest rates, together with the tax reliefs adopted by the Stortinget, will improve the family economy, strengthen the local economy and give greater room to carry out important welfare tasks. Lower interest rates show that the Government has so far succeeded in its economic policy, and it shows how important it was for the Storting to show the necessary budgetary discipline and to pursue a tight fiscal policy when examining the budget. A balanced economic policy in the future could provide a basis for further reductions in interest rates. I would like to broadly explain the majority position of Framework Areas 1 and 2 and assume that the individual parties will explain their specificities. I am very pleased that the Government has endorsed its objectives of modernising and transforming the public sector. It is simply about improving the quality of public services for users and business. There is also a majority in favour of better public services not at the expense of access to labour and skills in private business. This presupposes a better use of public sector resources and the mobilisation of skills and labour available to older workers, workers with disabilities and those who are unemployed. The majority are concerned with the need to prevent further exclusion of the labour market and the need for an inclusive working life and modernisation of the public sector to be two sides of the same coin. In particular, the Government Parties would stress the importance of simplifying Norway. Unnecessary legislation needs to be removed and state activities reviewed in order to achieve greater coordination and rationalisation. For business, it is important to be able to concentrate on using the forces and resources of productive activity rather than form fields and bureaucracy. Modernisation is a long-term and comprehensive work. The majority, despite the recognition that this work will take time, are impatient to get started and ask the Government to launch concrete projects on improving efficiency and outsourcing, already in the first half of 2002. The majority are pleased that in the new year the Government will present a separate statement to the Grand Duchy on the objectives and main principles of modernisation. A majority, consisting of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, supports the Government's proposal to renew and modernise the public sector through competition, freedom of choice, IT, free movement, human resources policy and performance-based funding. The same majority believe that central government needs to be streamlined, better coordinated and more effective. As far as the price subsidy is concerned, there is a majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, who support the Government that the scheme has not had the effects on the petrol price that were desirable. The wide spread of petrol prices in Norway is probably due to a varying degree of competition in the different markets. It appears that the territorial importance of the scheme is very limited and can be liquidated without any specific consequences. The same assessment has been made for some other products. With regard to the AFP scheme, the majority of the Board of Directors is asking for a return to the Stortinget with a proposal that a contractual pension can be combined with the possibility of labour income up to NOK 15 000. For the government parties, the main reason is that many of the AFP scheme participate in local and social work, and that this should be possible without reducing the pension. An overall committee supports the Government's proposal to lower the special age limit for prison officials to 63 years. This is a profession with physical and psychological wear and tear. However, the majority from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party will state that they agree to the proposal provided that it does not create precedent for other professional groups. Then I'm going to go to border area 2. I would like to begin by stressing that the Cooperative Government will pursue a family policy that can contribute to strengthening equality in society. Women and men shall have real opportunities to participate equally in work, organisational and family life. A forward-looking family policy must take into account all types of families and also take account of the single situation. Freedom of choice for families with children is central. A prerequisite for increased freedom of choice and equal opportunities for young children’s parents is that families have a financial means to choose a form of care that suits them best and an offer of more and more affordable kindergartens. The freedom to act economically and the ability of parents to adapt their time to the needs of children is a prerequisite for good growth conditions. I am very pleased that the Right and Christian People's Party, together with the Advance Party, ensure a majority in favour of the proposal that all government grants to private and public kindergartens should be collected in one pot and given as a direct grant to each nursery. The government will ensure that work on a new funding model is completed during the spring, so that the matter can be dealt with in the Storting before the summer holiday. The objective is that the new financing model will enter into force from 1 January 2003. This scheme will ensure the emergence and predictability of grants to kindergartens. The government has gained broad support for its offensive bet on kindergartens. The action shall focus on the establishment of kindergartens, the increase of the operating grant and increased quality bet. More and cheaper kindergartens are needed to ensure parental freedom of choice and good care solutions for children. More time and freedom of choice are fundamental values of family policy, and it is therefore essential that parents have a real opportunity to choose their children’s kindergarten. The government’s objectives are full childcare coverage by the end of 2003. The cash support scheme has been very successful. Whole 76.6 pst. of children aged 1 to 3 years using the scheme. A review of the evaluation shows that the objectives – i.e. more time, greater freedom of choice and greater justice in the transfers to young children’s families – are well on the way. A matter of evaluation of the cash support is now under consideration in Stortinget. The majority are concerned about whether the objectives have been met and whether certain adjustments are needed. However, there is no evidence in the research report to change the main principles. I would like to stress strongly that there is no contradiction between cash support and more and cheaper kindergartens. A real freedom of choice involves both cash support and full child care coverage. In the Sem Declaration, the Government has committed itself to continuing the cash support and increasing the amount during the period. The majority of the Committee welcomes the efforts made to improve the living conditions of lesbians and gays and points to the follow-up to the St.meld. No 25 for 2000-2001 on gay and lesbian living conditions and the measures adopted by the Stortinget. There is no doubt that this is an area that requires extra efforts to prevent discrimination and to prevent suicide. The majority, all except the Progress Party, believe that it is important to strengthen the human perspective of gender equality policies and to facilitate equal opportunities, rights and responsibilities for women and men in family, work and social life. The establishment of the Human Rights Centre Reform, which will be able to provide advice to men in crisis and conflict, is an important step towards promoting gender equality. The Labour Party, Right, Christian People's Party and SV want to grant 2 million. kr to a National Advisory and Resource Centre for Men. This is also an important measure in the overall effort to prevent violence against women. Finally, I would like to point out that a broad majority, all with the exception of the Progress Party, believe that gender equality should be a priority, common objective for all sectors. Today’s gender equality policy involves gender mainstreaming in all social areas. The aim of the co-operation management is to integrate the gender perspective into budgetary work. The aim is to have an impact on both sexes in terms of objectives, strategy design and implementation. It will result in greater security of performance and improved quality assurance of reform work, actions and services, and will contribute to achieving the objective of efficient and more user-friendly public administration and service provision. I refer you to the comments and suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e164	First I have to say that the Minister for Children and Family does not fail in lifting the index finger on people's doers and barn. In her December 11 issue, she thought it was alarming that so many children were born outside marriage. Once again we see that a council of the Christian People's Party believes that freedom of choice applies only if Ola and Kari North do what the Christian People's Party believes is moral right. I would recommend the Council of State to abandon such attitudes when she is going to sit down to write a new family message. My advice is that she is wise to deal with the fact that Norway today consists of families in all variants; cohabiting heterophiles and homosexuals with and without children, married to and without children, gays and lesbians in partnership with and without children, and single with and without children. My advice to the council is that when she sits in her office in the department and is going to write a new family message, she should take people's choices seriously. That the Christian People's Party believes that marriage is the only blessing does not mean that everyone else has to choose the same thing. We, as politicians, have through, among other things, The law and the objective of the child-restraint workers were given one of the most difficult jobs, namely working in the private sphere on behalf of the children and for the benefit of the children. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to commend the job this group is doing for the most vulnerable children and young people. We are now at a crossroads when, in the new year, we are going to start a debate on the Befring Committee's position, and then the question is: how will child protection be for the future? As I see it, it's important to have a collaborative and open child protection system that has a high level of competence and works purposefully. After such general target formulation, there was certainly much to be said about other objectives that child protection should also achieve and about sea-cutting on the road to targets. But my point is that child protection should be an active participant to ensure that children are cared for, to ensure good child growth conditions and help when needed. It is gratifying to note that child protection has intensified early intervention efforts in recent years, so that child protection can prevent children’s and young people’s problems from becoming very serious. Among other things, we see it through the increased number of relief measures at home. Having said this, at the same time, I would like to say that I agree with the Befring Committee, which warns against «getting seductive» of the term «helping measures». It is uncertain to what extent the number of relief measures gives a good picture of how many children, young people and families get the help they need from child protection. While aid measures are the type of measures used much more frequently than other measures, there is also the least systematic knowledge of the effects of these measures. Simple solutions to how we can get a child protection that is better suited to the needs of children and families can hardly be found. Foster housing is and has been the most important care measure in the field of child protection. I would like to stress here that it is the public that takes care of these children, and we must be careful not to privatize the problems. Good follow-up of foster homes is therefore important. The job these families do is absolutely indispensable in order to provide these children and young people with the best possible offer. I know that there is a lot to deal with when it comes to follow-up of foster homes and what framework conditions they have, and I would like to make it clear here that this wants the Workers' Party to follow up. This is a historic day. Today, we are adopting the start of the largest kindergarten bet ever, thanks to the priority of the Stoltenberg government. The working party will have enough kindergartens, cheaper kindergartens and good kindergartens. I am proud that our bet has contributed to the fact that other parties are now lifting the kindergarten tab. It is a pleasure to see that the cash support parties Right and Christian People's Party will bet on the kindergartens. Especially happy is the fact that the Christian People's Party seems to put kindergartens in front of an extension of the cash support to several year's coals. I have noticed that the Bondevik II government will not promise to spend about 5 billion kroner on kindergartens until 2005, and is therefore somewhat in doubt as to whether the necessary resources will come when the budgets are to be allocated in the future. What are the objectives of the Workers' Party's kindergarten bet? We want: full coverage of needs, so that all parents who wish to do so will have kindergarten space for their children by 2003 as a new cost allocation, 50 pst. from the state, 30 pst. from the municipalities and 20 pst. from the parents of 2005 statutory obligation for municipalities to provide childcare facilities in 2002 statutory entitlement to kindergarten from 2006 quality development in all kindergartens In total, the Workers' Party's child care effort will amount to DKK 5 billion in the forthcoming ageing period. We believe that this will provide a basis for a significant price reduction for parents. On average, the bet will mean an approximate halving of the current price in a kindergarten. Cheaper kindergartens will lead to increased demand. This must be taken into account when assessing the development needs in the coming years. The number of new sites that will be needed will need to be further assessed over the period. I don't want to hide that we're facing a demanding problem. As everyone here knows, an increase in the state subsidy will not automatically lead to a reduction in parental pay. Municipalities and private nursery owners can use increased state subsidies to reduce their share of child care expenditure – without sanctions. The government of Stoltenberg therefore presented a model that makes sure that the money gets to where it is going, so that it becomes more and cheaper kindergartens. We will make the increased state subsidy dependent on the local government's own efforts. When we added increased funds, it was not without swordsstroke that the municipalities finally lowered the prices. Former state councillor Karita Bekkemelm Orheim was out with constant reminders to the municipalities, and it produced results. Now we see that according to local government, local government increases prices. I would like to ask, is it not possible for the Council of State to raise the index finger in this context? What's the Council of State going to do? In order to ensure a comprehensive childcare policy in the municipalities and to give private kindergarten owners more predictable financial framework conditions, it is important that cooperation agreements between private kindergartens and the municipality are put in place. This will also lead to lower parental pay. One cannot expect the parental benefit to be reduced without ensuring the financial security of the private kindergartens. In the end, I must be allowed to express my joy at the fact that, in the budgetary agreement with the government parties, we have been given an increase in the income limit for the contractual pension, for the AFP pensioners. The amount has been raised from NOK 4000 to NOK 15 000. As the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli had in mind, more people who are engaged in political work and in organisations, both private and public, will come under this limit. But it's too low. We want to keep the skills that many people have. It would have been nice if, for example, some of the AFP pensioners who have previously taken care of the health sector could continue to take care of hospitals, old-age homes, etc. This is limited because the amount is still too low. But the right thing to do is: this is a step on the way to a 1G income limit, which is the primary wish of the Workers' Party. I still hope that the AFP pensioners will enjoy this Christmas gift from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e217	Would the representative, Mr Faldet, like to make a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e220	Yes, I would like to address the proposals to which the Workers' Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e225	Eirin Faldet has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e228	The party looks forward to 2002 with great anticipation. In the autumn, we have been given a new direction in the Ministry of Labour and Administration, which has a clear and marked profile in relation to the reduction of public bureaucracy and in relation to efficiency and rationalisation. There is broad consensus in the Committee – excluding the SV and the Centre – that the public sector needs to be modernised and transformed. The Government Parties, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party ask the Government to launch concrete projects aimed at improving efficiency and launching competition in the first half of 2002. This must be seen as a clear and clear message to the Council of State that he has the support of the Stortinge in this area. We know that Norway is completely at the top of the world in terms of the number of public employees and public administration. It shows, among other things: a report prepared by State Consultant earlier this year. This is a development we've had in our country over many years, but for the first time in my 20-year political commitment, I now have a real hope of a change. Of course, there are not all areas within the Ministry of Labour and Administration where the Progress Party and the majority stand together. The position will show that we had a lower proposal for this framework area. This is due, inter alia, to: that we want to cut support for the political parties. We believe that they need to be more able to generate income on their own. We already want to cut the appropriations for government administration, and we want to tighten up the budgetary framework for county offices. The figures for what the opera project will cost to the Norwegian community vary, but we've seen in the last few days in newspaper headlines about DKK 10 billion for the opera and the associated traffic solutions. In any case, it will probably only end up at around NOK 2 billion – money that could have been very well spent, for example. in the school sector or in the health sector, where there is a significant need. Another area where the Progress Party stands alone is the AFP scheme. On option page 18, the Progress Party has a comment on AFP. In a labour market as tight as we have in a number of sectors in Norway, it is a paradox that through early retirement schemes, society has facilitated an increasing number of unemployed people to leave the labour market before the ordinary retirement age. We believe that it is unreasonable that the public should contribute to this. In fact, our note on page 18 is identical to a note made by the Right and the Advance Party during the previous budgetary procedure. It seems strange to me that the Right has turned the other way around in this area. So let's make a comment about pensions. On 15 June 2001, a proposal was adopted in the Stortinget that ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the coordination law is applied so that no one can lose any pension money earned in the social security system’. This should be a simple and straightforward principle that could be implemented immediately. It is sad to see that this is now being fired on time by the fact that the government parties do not support the proposals of the Progress Party in the case, but add to this an assessment in connection with the Pension Commission, so that it will at least take a few years. Finally, a few words about an area within the Ministry of Children and Family that occupies me. This relates to the State appropriations for equal opportunities and to the organisations of the homosexuals. The Progress Party believes that it is wrong to implement and implement selective measures for healthy and ready-to-work adult people only on the basis of their gender or sexual orientation. We believe that women and men, whether heterophilic or homosexual, know their own needs and rights, and have confidence that they themselves can take care of them in relation to any discrimination that may take place. We actually think it's that making special measures for these, devalues the individual in relation to their sex and their orientation. Otherwise, we all listened carefully to the comments of the committee leader. What I found reason to note was that the committee leader started with the fact that you were very satisfied with the agreement with the Workers' Party. But what she boasted about in the rest of the post was everything the Government and the Advance Party stood together about, and you can notice that. Finally, I would like to address the joint proposals and minority proposals that the Progress Party is promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e251	Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e254	The welfare state depends on a strong public sector. Equal rights to participation in society and equal access to welfare services, regardless of gender, age, ethnic background or economic and social resources, are important for the Socialist Left Party. The efforts of the government parties to privatise and outsource a large part of public services are a threat to the welfare state and users who rely on public services. The Socialist Left will protect the Community solutions, and we will work against the forces based on profit and earnings. Privatisation and outsourcing will lead to a development that violates political responsibility for the public production of services. Public funds shall be used for welfare goods, not for the benefit of investors. We want the vitalisation of the public sector. By doing so, we mean a more user-friendly and qualitatively better service, where responsibility for the design and delivery of public services should be as close as possible to the user. The Socialist Left believes that it is important for an employer policy to promote equality and to meet the challenges of a public sector recruitment crisis. Women have not had equal pay developments. Women earn just as badly compared to men as they did 25 years ago. Women experience increasing stress and health problems at work and at home. Many women work in the care sector, with low basic staff, low pay and job breaks that do not confer social security rights. The crisis in the public sector is a threat to our welfare state. We do not need to improve efficiency and competition, but an employer policy that allows young people to be recruited into occupations that are currently poorly paid, low status and burdensome. We in SV want to start different test projects to meet the high level of sick leave, crew crisis and women's experience of increasing stress and health problems at work and at home. The Socialist Left has proposed an allocation of 100 million in its alternative budget. kr to Project Women's and equal pay. This pot shall be used for pilot projects with a 6-hour day, increased ground crew and improved pay conditions for low pay. Public employers’ policies must be implemented which provide equal opportunities for women and men and which facilitate long-term employment and ensure recruitment to the public sector. Today's financial transfers to the county councillors mean that the county councillors are unable to fulfil the statutory tasks they have overseeing child protection services in municipalities and county councils. It is our opinion that there is a need to strengthen our duties in order to carry out these important tasks, and we have put a strengthening in our alternative budget of 33 million. kr. SV has also noted that the Government is notifying large-scale privatisation of government agencies, such as government agencies. that the Norwegian Research Council is to be converted into a limited liability company. I believe this is a very unfortunate trend that can deprive Norwegian society of important neutral research and investigation agencies. And I don't want an increasing privatisation of the public space of a limited liability company, where the Share Act applies, and where the right of access is not present. The Socialist Left believes that contractual retirement is a very good arrangement that gives people who choose this scheme the opportunity to combine work and social security. When the scheme was introduced, it was possible to earn up to the basic amount of people's fear 1 G before being retired. This was amended by the Bondevik I Government, and we support the proposal made by the majority of the Committee, with an increase in the income limit of NOK 15 000, but maintain our original proposal for a 1 G limit, which was also included in the Workers' Party before the budgetary conciliation. As regards the 63-year special age limit for prison officials, unlike all the other parties in the Committee, we believe that there are several professional groups that have a physical and psychologically aggravating profession in line with prison officers and that the special age limit has to be assessed for other professions with similar burdens. Bondevik II’s cut in the price premium of 60 million. is regrettable, and shows that the Government also lacks a perspective on regional policy in this case. The price subsidy is a good tool for rural policy, we believe. The total frame's cut by $95 million. kr in the case of Framework 1 and it is impossible to find cover within the budgetary framework. That is why the Socialist Left will vote against the framework, and we refer to our alternative budget, which has an increase of 95 million. kr and also a strengthening of the price subsidy of 60 million. kr. Investment in children and young people is an investment for the future. It is not acceptable that many thousands of children grow up in poverty in Norway. And it is a shame that the world's richest country, through better financial support schemes and other necessary measures, has not managed to eradicate poverty in Norway. In its alternative framework budget for Framework 2, the Socialist Left has put in various proposals to improve the economy of families with children in a fair manner – we are increasing the amount of child benefit for third and fourth children by DKK 3,792 per year. children, we're price-setting the child's pension, and we're lowering the parental payment in the kindergarten to NOK 1500, with the clear objective of achieving a maximum price of NOK 1140 during the period. The Socialist Left Party will make the nursery places available to all children, regardless of their parents' finances. And there's going to be kindergarten space for anyone who wants it. The Socialist Left Party will remove the cash support scheme. The support for cash has led to a negative trend in the equality between mothers and fathers, the participation of young children’s parents in work and the use of kindergarten. We look at the fact that cash support leads to women in different professions working less. This leads to an increasing shortage of skilled labour in the health, social, school and kindergarten sectors. In the SV's alternative budget, we will increase father's maternity leave based on his own earnings, and we will increase adoption support up to 1 G, so that it is not the income of parents that is crucial to whether they can assume parental responsibility or not. We have to take seriously the problems we see in society related to violence and drug abuse. We look with concern at the cuts of the government in measures for children and young people. The Socialist Left Party has committed 67 million. for various projects and prevention activities for children and young people. Advertising, slendering and increasing the sexualisation of girls need more attention, and research and efforts need to be focused. Strengthening child protection and pilot projects with new inter-disciplinary cooperation venues is essential in order to meet the challenges of prevention, and it is now absolutely necessary to put in place. We cannot accept young people losing their lives because we do not take responsibility for them through preventive work and treatment. Equality is a human right, an opportunity for individuals to unfold and their abilities, regardless of gender. And it is important to strengthen the crisis centres and preventative measures for children and women exposed to violence. The Socialist Left has proposed 20 million in its alternative budget. kr for crisis response and 100 million. kr to Project Women's life to meet these things. We maintain our proposals on Framework 1 and Framework 2 – our own and the ones we are with the others about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e294	May Hansen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e298	It is too early in this budget to make the major new changes in the area of child protection. Many are aware that the Bondevik government put down a sample, the Befring Committee, which should have a broad review of child protection. This was a historic and necessary task. Child protection faces new and major challenges that require us to take a new approach. And through the Befring committee, we've got the first total review of child protection ever. And if I humbly have to say it myself – and if that is to be said, I have to say it myself – this was one of many good actions from the previous Bondevik government that was followed up by the Cooperation Government. The work on child protection in the light of the setting up of the Befring Committee will become an important area for the Committee during this period. But the committee has already chosen to comment on a couple of exciting projects, Parent Management Training, PMT, and Multisystemic Therapy, SMT. Placing young people at institutions is rarely a help for children and young people with behavioural problems. In these two projects, professionals, parents and the community are involved in cooperation for children and young people with behavioural problems in a family-based treatment scheme. These are projects that have so far produced very good results. It's good with the eyes of society, but it's mostly good because it increases the quality of life of the individual child and the young person who's been trying to make things right in our society. Child protection is available to protect the child. It is our goal as politicians, and I know that it is the goal of the professionals who are competent in this field and who put considerable effort into their work for these children. It's probably a little daunting for someone in the opposition that the co-operation government is following up the pediatric bet. We do this even if we know that the Stoltenberg government is pushing ahead with bills of 13 to 14 billion kroner, which will occur in later budgets. This is an offensive bet that adds up to both increased places and lower parental pay. But the biggest revolution in kindergarten betting is not this money. No, it is the funding system on which the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party stand together in the Committee and on which the Labour Party is not. This is probably the biggest grip that's going to be taken in the kindergarten sector. By bringing together all grants into one government grant and making this go to the individual nursery, we will have an operating basis for kindergartens that make it safe to bet and build kindergartens, so that the funding model outlined by the board of state Davøy for the committee is worth using big words as a revolution. Of course, there are challenges to such a model, but it should not stop us from taking the grip that will eventually mean much to parents' ability to get space and at a price that makes them have a real freedom in choosing a form of care. The representative commented that prices do not go down. Join in this funding mechanism, and this will be all right! In recent weeks, there has been a media debate on gender equality and minority women. All members of the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, point out that the Equality Centre has not seen it as a task to work on these issues. We're very fast up on the barricades and focus on the situation of minority women when it comes to dramatic things like forced marriage and circumcision. But now it is called for, among other things. from the MiRA Centre, that we focus on the everyday situation of minority women. I understand that the grounds of the Equality Centre, at Yssen, work on discrimination based on gender in general and not on discrimination based on ethnicity. But it's just the combination of sex and ethnicity that is special for the everyday life of some minority women. The Christian People's Party considers the Equality Centre to be an important player in society, and the majority of the Committee wants equality and minority women's daily lives to be placed on the agenda. This can only be done in dialogue with the women concerned. In this dialogue, we should not ignore the fact that we, so-called ethnic Norwegian women, may have something to learn from our fellow sisters, including minority women. Then I have made a contribution without mentioning the cash support, and that is not possible when you are a KRF. But freedom of choice depends on the needs of kindergartens. That's the job we promised in the election, and that's who we're now doing. The increase in the amount of cash support is the next step. Then it was mentioned, and I can finish my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e311	A good and secure childhood and growth should be a human right for all children. Of course, the primary responsibility for the children and the world lies with parents, and our task as politicians is to encourage parents, young people and children. Poverty should not be a theme in one of the richest countries in the world, but unfortunately, it is not. Folkehelsa figures show that there are over 70,000 children under the age of 18 in Norway who can be counted as poor, and while the buy party in these Christmas seasons swings and when new records, many people know that Christmastime does not mean gifts and abundance to everyone. Poor children aren't poverty. Neither do they choose to exclude from social relations and from friends. They haven't chosen to live with shame, self-esteem, social retreat, set back, and finally lie to cover their shame. Never before have so many children had good reason to expect many hard packages during the Christmas tree. This makes it even worse for the many children who are not allowed. During the election campaign, many politicians went high on the track with one promise after another to help those who have the least, and that was good. But I still wonder that one of the steps that the Government wants to take is to keep cash – and not child welfare – outside when paying social assistance. In isolation, this is positive, but when this is only about cash support and not child welfare, it becomes incomprehensible to me. Those who need social assistance most may not always have children under the age of three. What about those who have children over the age of three and need help? Following the government's prioritisation, one must meet two criteria: 1st@item: inlistbox One must have children under the age of three.2. The child or children are not allowed to go to the nursery. It is alarming that there is no child-responsiveness at all. It would have been a grip that would have monna for those who really need it. Freedom of choice in family policy is important. And with the high professional participation of grandchildren we have in our country, it's crucial that parents have something to choose from. The center part wants everyone who wants to have children's garden space to have it. The evaluation of the cash support shows that there is a large shortage of kindergartens, when most people who receive cash support are not well at home, but other child care solutions. It is the municipalities that have the total responsibility for the childcare provision. If the Government's single-cost financing signal is put into effect, this may have consequences for those children who need additional resources and help, but who do not come under the care of the disabled. There are children with psychosomatic diseases, there are children with special problems as a result of abuse, there are children with speech problems, etc., who usually get their childcare services in the public kindergarten. These children often need extra resources. The question is then: who should be responsible if price financing is introduced? And how does this relate to the fact that the municipalities are going to have, and have, it oversees the responsibility for childcare provision? And an appropriate question: can municipalities instruct the private kindergartens – who otherwise do a fantastic job – to take in those children who have special needs? Babysitting's too late. The center party believes that the most important tool is to increase the operational efficiency, but in addition, we want to provide a boost for further people to be able to contribute to more kindergartens, especially for children under three years of age. Vareting and further developing the kindergarten's quality and its educational content is also important, and we therefore support the Government's proposal for an additional investment of 5.6 million. kr for this purpose. Children's rights have not been adjusted since 1996, and this is a universal system to benefit all children. It is appropriate to provide for the automatic adjustment of child-restraint rates in the warning child-restraint bill, according to the opinion of the Centre Party. So in the end, I'm going to pick up the Center Party's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e339	Eli Sollied Överaas has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e342	We are dealing with two framework areas, both the Department of Labour and Administration and the Department of Children and Family. First, I would like to say a few words about equality with regard to the Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs' budget: It is important for the Workers' Party to stress that gender equality is a fundamental value in a democratic society. We've come a long way in the field of equality, but we're far from the goal. Gender equality shall be a priority, common objective for all sectors, and today's gender mainstreaming policy means gender mainstreaming across all societal domains. It is gratifying that the Government is following up the work of the former State Council of the City of Orheim to integrate the gender perspective into budgetary work. For the first time, four departments have taken the gender perspective seriously. It is still the case that, to a large extent, sex determines wages and salaries, and the differences in wages and salaries follow the sex-shared labour market. There is a clear trend towards the lowest wage levels in occupations and positions where there are most women, and there are more women with poor economic living conditions than there are men. I expect the Government to focus heavily on these misunderstandings. So to the area relating to the Ministry of Labour and Administration's budget: After attending a very useful meeting of the Council of State Norman and his staff, the committee got a glimpse of how extensive this field really is. I have been given responsibility for the chapter on State Building, and after many enquiries from all over the country, I realize that construction and new construction at several of the country's colleges are absolutely necessary. The Committee also considers this to be important, and therefore we have chosen to clarify the review of higher education institutions given by two governments in the budget for the Ministry of Labour and Administration as well as for the Ministry of Education and Research. For the Workers' Party, it was important to obtain a majority in order to follow up the proposal of the Stoltenberg Government that the King be empowered to dispose of State properties at a price lower than the market price for which special consideration is given. We believe that this is an important tool to ensure reasonable plots for different groups in society that need a place to live at a slightly lower cost than the market can otherwise offer. It is important to take this into account in the future, so that, in different cases, it is possible to assess this with land prices. In the area of the Ministry of Labour and Administration, we have a chapter on price subsidies. Price subsidies are intended to compensate for differences in prices between different geographical areas of the goods in question. This subsidy, which is an important subsidy to the oil companies on petrol and diesel, so that they can reduce the freight supplement by selling and we can get some reasonable petrol and diesel prices in the districts, Bondevik II has just removed with a pen stroke. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party state in the statement that ‘the Bondevik Government, also in this case, lacks perspectives on district policy’. Among other things, parts of North Norway can increase petrol prices by up to 50 cents, doesn't seem to worry about the Christian People's Party and the Prime Minister at all. No, then the government will continue to cut the line against the districts. In addition to removing this price subsidy, they also remove the special subsidy that Nord-Norway has had on some important food products, among other things. on fruit. Unfortunately, many families of children have strongly expressed the need to limit the purchases of these goods due to the increase in prices — which naturally comes into the wake of the loss of subsidies. I wonder: Where has it been of the Christian People's Party's district policy and family policy? Maybe they've never really had any policies in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e365	In line with the Sem Declaration, the Government will continue to develop the public sector, and we will give it a very high priority. We want a public sector of high quality and good accessibility, and it should be organised in an open and tidy way. We want a public sector that both individuals and businesses experience as a support and a co-player, and a public sector where employees feel that they have an exciting and developing job. I am very pleased with the inauguration of the modernisation work that has come from the majority of the committee, and also with the inauguration that has come to the main lines we have chosen for the work. In the statement that I will give on this matter in January, I will come back to the specific projects, which the number of committees has asked for. In the modernisation work, I think it is very important that we have made it clear that the public sector exists for the inhabitants and not for the vice versa – and that is the most crucial thing we want to focus on. I would like to concentrate on the comments here on the other things that the Committee addresses, since I come back to the modernisation project later. One of the issues addressed by the Committee is the issue of the retirement age of prison officers. One of the main objectives of the Inclusion Work Life Intention Agreement is to raise the real retirement age in Norway, and the proposal for a lower age limit for prison officers and first-time prison officers is obviously not in line with this objective. However, when we have promoted the proposal, it is because of the very special work situation that this group has, and I am pleased that this proposal will now be reviewed. At the same time, it is important that it does not create precedent, and I think it is also important that we see this proposal in the light of the lack of a good life-cycle personnel policy that characterises large parts of the state sector. We need to develop work careers for public employees that allow them to advance to retirement, even if they cannot carry out the same tasks throughout their working life. We see this as one of the major challenges of the Memorandum of Understanding. The Committee proposes that we come back with proposals to combine the AFP scheme with labour income of up to NOK 15 000. I would like to make it clear that this is a question that lies under another department, but I would nevertheless like to make some comments on the proposal. When the AFP scheme was introduced in 1988, the intention was that we should have a system to ensure that workers who had a long career behind them, and who were worn out, were given the option to retire with an early retirement pension before the retirement age of the population. In the years that have passed, the development of the AFP has made this a general retirement age for the groups covered by the scheme. It wasn't the intention, so we got a reduction in the amount of income that you could have without it leading to a curtailment of the pension. The amount that was set was NOK 4000, and it was meant to be a discretionary amount that would allow certain activities without having any problems with the pension. The proposal to now raise this amount to NOK 15 000 is a proposal that we have no problems with living with, but I think it is important to make it clear that we cannot go anything much higher than this amount if we are to avoid that the AFP scheme can lead to a further reduction in the real retirement age. The Government takes note that the Committee proposes to maintain the Government of Stoltenberg's proposal that the Government be authorised to dispose of State property at a lower price than the market price for which special consideration is given. In that case, we will use this mandate in accordance with the political assessments on which the Government is working. I would also like to say a little about the issue of the transfer of the State Purchase Department in the State Administrative Service to Narvik. As the Stortinget will be familiar with, a working group was set up to assess the future of State procurement. That working group gave its opinion to my ministry three days ago. I haven't had time to get into the proposals thoroughly, but as far as I can see, the working group is adding up to a further work on the organisation of state and public procurement that seems very useful for our further planning. With regard to localisation issues, the group is divided into a view on whether or not the activity should be moved to Narvik. I hope through the assessment I am now going to make, that I find that the conditions are well suited for moving to Narvik, but will maintain what I have said earlier, that the starting point for the localization question must be what is functional in relation to the problems to be solved. I aim to clarify this question early in the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e382	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e385	I could have liked to talk for a long time about the AFP scheme, but I'm going to give the council the opportunity to talk about something he didn't get into his post, namely equal pay. In the TV 2 news on 1 November, the Minister of Administration went out and raised major pay differences. It's still the way that gender determines pay to a large extent. The differences in wages and salaries follow the sex-shared labour market. I see from the Sem statement that the government will work for equal pay. It's a little confusing, then, that the Council of State Norman makes room for greater differences. The Labour Party will underline the importance of making and correcting pay differentials between women and men. Here it is important that the State that the employer takes the lead. Can the Council of State Victor Norman guarantee that he will follow up the work of equal pay and that he will be responsible for the formation of wages in the state ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e394	I can confirm that I am a strong supporter of equal pay. I am also strongly attached to the fact that not only do we get equal pay for equal work, but that we also get equal opportunities for development and employment regardless of gender. So the answer to that question is definitely yes. I want to take advantage of the opportunity to clarify what I tried to say on TV 2: It was not to mention greater pay differences, but it was to note that we have a trend towards greater pay differences, and that it is characterized by great arbitrariness. What I think it is necessary is that we have an open discussion with the social partners about what the principles of pay differentiation should be, and what criteria should be used to prevent us from getting a trend towards pay differentials based on what is commonly known as pure ‘thinking factors’. One of the criteria that should not be responsible for differences in pay is gender.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e401	Competition supervision is one of the main budget lines of the Ministry of Labour and Administration. A few weeks ago, we were able to record that the Minister of Labour and Administration in the media called for a politically independent complaint body for the Competition and Credit Supervision. According to the NTB, the Council of State must have stated that there is a paradox and a parody when state councils have to refrain from participating in the social debate because the departments are the review bodies for the various inspections, this because the appeals require the absence of the assessment. The progress party initially responded positively to this play. We see clearly that it may be appropriate to weaken the authority and legitimacy of supervision if they are to be tested in several contexts by politicians on the basis of political rather than purely professional points of view. In particular, we have seen examples of this in the book industry, where the Competition Authority has had clear opinions on facilitating increased competition in the book market and thus lower prices, among other things. in school books. But these points of view have been politically tested. My question to the Council of State is: does he still have the same view as he went out in the media at the end of November this year, and would you expect concrete proposals on regulatory changes in this area? Do we have to wait until after the competition policy selection has been completed on 1 November 2002, as mentioned in the draft budget – and then there is no hope of getting the case to the Grand Duchy before the autumn of 2003 – or can we hope for amendments before that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e416	Yes, I still want to assess the possibility of setting up an independent appeal board for the Competition Authority and other supervision. We have asked the Law Committee, which works with the Competition Act, to propose such a scheme. It must necessarily go through the Law Committee, because this requires a legislative change, and it requires a thorough preparation of the case. So I don't think we can have a proposal on the table until after the law committee has given up its position. In this regard, let me also take the opportunity to clarify one thing: what I want is an independent appeal in individual matters dealt with by the supervisory authorities – I do not want a situation where policies are left to the supervisory authorities, to put it that way. There is a headline in the media today that I have tried the Competition Authority on the issue of the handling of the Aker-Kværner merger. That's not right. In that case, I asked for advice from the Competition Authority. I received advice that provided the basis for the decision I had to make on the matter, in any case, and I have then made an assessment on the basis of that advice and a discussion of the supervision of what is the proper procedure. And we have to have that kind of process, even if we were to set up an independent appeal board for supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e423	Then we got it cleared up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e427	Norman has taken over as Minister of State for Modernization, and this is an exciting project. Then it's important to know what it is that is modern, and what it is that is considered old-fashioned. From the SV we believe that a society where one has to pay for services that everyone needs is old-fashioned, and that a society where the quality of school is poor and different is old-fashioned. We mean a society where there is not enough public public transport, for example, is old-fashioned, we believe that a rigid, rigorous state apparatus that has watertight shots between itself and that doesn't work together is old-fashioned. I could imagine challenging the Council of State a little bit more on what the Council of State means by the term ‘modern’ because I get the feeling that the only thing that is modern is that there should be the most private business into what SV thinks should be public services. I can also ask the Council of State a very specific question: if so, for example. AS Wash and clean on the coat of a cleaning worker, does the Council of State consider that he is involved in value creation, but if there is a municipality on the coat, is it not value creation? I think it's a very important question to clarify, because I see it in the debate sometimes as if people working in the public sector, whether it's now in health care or in school, etc., represent only one consumption and are considered a problem, while as soon as there's a private company doing this job, it's value creation. I would like a clear response from the Council of State to this, so that at least there are no misunderstandings about these fundamental things when it comes to the modernisation process.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e434	It's an accommodating invitation to lecture on issues related to value creation, including from this pulpit. It's a temptation I'm going to resist, but let me take the very specific question. Of course, providing services directly to individuals in public terms is as great a value as providing services to the same individuals in private. It's as much value creation as melting aluminum. That's not the question here. I myself have been working in the state for very many years, and I think I have contributed to the value creation in Norway, and I also hope that everyone else who works in the public sector feels that they do. I also think there are interesting questions that the representative Karin Andersen raises more generally, but let me clarify what is the basic one here. I don't think it's essential to call things modernisation or renewal, or what words you choose to use, what's the point, is that we need to get better and more well-organised public services in Norway – for the sake of citizens, for business reasons, for taxpayers and for those who work in the public sector themselves. That's the starting point. And then we have to ask, how can we do that? I don't think the solution is to turn the public sector into private business, but I think that just as business can often learn from what we do in the public sector, we have a lot to learn from what is done in the private sector, not in the sense that it can always be transferred directly, but that we can learn from approaches and organisational patterns. And in addition, I think we can learn the thing of the private sector that it may often be appropriate to have a neat corporate organization around the activities that can naturally be identified as a unit. But all these are questions that I am pleased to come back to Stortinget in January.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e445	The size gives the government today the possibility to dispose of state property at a lower price than the market price where special consideration is given to it. I want to give the Council the opportunity to elaborate on the way in which it will use this mandate. The state has building mass and plots that could be of great importance to ensure a good start for more young people and more difficult ones. Having a good housing as a platform for organizing your own life is crucial. The centre party believes that there is a need to outreach and use political tools to get this done. This applies to both the loan and the mortgage arrangements and not least to the Husbank. But it is true that available plots are often the main dilemma. We suggested last year that the 72 buildings with associated plots that the Posten put out for sale should be valued at below market prices. Only SV supported it then. We were very pleased that the Stoltenberg Government now made proposals in the budget to take advantage of the waste directive. We are also very pleased with today's setting, in which all parties, apart from the Progress Party, support it. So the Council of State says that the Government will benefit from this authority on the basis of the political assessments of the Government. It is then known from Appendix No. 4 that the Government is not really in agreement with using the waste directive in this way. Therefore, in our view, there is a very clear need for a closer deepening of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e454	As the representative of Meltveit Kleppa correctly reminded us, the Government has not requested this mandate. We have nothing against getting a mandate, just to clarify it, and that's what I said: we take note that we have received this mandate. But when we haven't initially asked for it, there's two reasons for it. One is that we think it may be a bit problematic to use it legally – and we have to assess it more closely in this case – but the other is that we believe that there are usually other and better instruments to achieve the same objectives. And therefore, I do not want to say specifically here today whether we want to use it, or how we want to use it. To the extent that the objectives referred to by the Committee as a reason why it may be useful for us to have this mandate can be achieved equally well or better with other instruments, I see no reason why we should use it. But we appreciate that we've also got this tool in the complete toolbox that we're evaluating.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e459	Let me first link a comment to Statskupen's location with Narvik. I would recommend the Council of State to listen more to a nearly unanimous decision-making committee than to a shared working group. Secondly, some comments on the renewal of the public sector. That work was well done in the previous government. We were based on the needs and experiences of users in public services, but we were also committed to implementing the changes in close cooperation with those who may know the most about the problems they face, namely the employees themselves. I would recommend to the Council of State to abandon dogmatic attitudes, such as: privatisation for the sake of privatisation or an AS for the sake of AS, which we may have seen tending to, among other things. in the examination of the budget of the Ministry of Transport. It is just as dogmatic and backward to be principled for a privatisation or AS organisation as it is to be against any renewal. But then to my specific question. This is what the representative Meltveit Kleppa also took up, namely the power to dispose of State-owned property under market value. After all, the Bondevik government proposed not to go in for such an authorisation to be granted. However, the size shall give such authority. We have a great need for reasonable housing, we have a great need for open-air areas, etc., and the state sits on large properties that can contribute to this. In particular, within the residential area, where the Bondevik government has flagged a few million students' homes, this mandate will be used correctly by much more for the possibility for young students and young people in the start-up phase to get housing. And my question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State take the signal that, despite the Bondevik government's proposal, the Storting is now giving such authority? And will he use that signal to use that power to achieve these policy objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e470	Let me take the questions in a second. As far as Narvik is concerned, it is clear that I am prepared to listen to all the points of view that have come. I have noticed that in Stortinget there are strong desires for decentralization. So do I. I'm going to study the group's attitude from the point of view that I want a decentralization, and that I hope it's functional to add it to Narvik. But I almost have to be allowed to look at the facts of the case – and we also have to provide a functionality. As far as modernisation and renewal are concerned, I agree that this is a work that the previous government and governments have done for a long time. I am very concerned to have close and close cooperation with the employees and their organisations, and I have clearly signaled both here in the Storting and to these that we do not have a dogmatic but a very pragmatic approach to which instruments may be appropriate in different contexts. We have invited organisations to have a similar pragmatic – not dogmatic – attitude, for example. to the issue of competitive outsourcing and privatisation. As for what happened with the Ministry of Transport's budget, I would like to say that I think it clearly illustrates that it is important that the dialogue with the organisations is going on better than it may have been traditionally, so that we avoid that urgent matters appear before we have had the opportunity to have good dialogue with the organisations about it. Finally, with regard to the question of the mandate, I cannot say anything other than what I have already said: it is clear that we are aware that we have received this mandate. We take very seriously the signals that are behind the authority. But I'm assuming that those signals go more on what you want to achieve than exactly what instrument to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e481	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e484	The Progress Party is of the opinion that the family is one of the most important elements and support points in today's society. Therefore, in a society of unrest and insecurity, it is very important to facilitate the family’s ability to be a safe anchor for children and young people growing up. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that it is very important to give families freedom in everyday life and to have the right to their own family situation. The progress party indicates that the introduction of the cash support has been very successful so far, and that we are the only party in this room that wants to go one step further and introduce cash support also for four-year-olds, so that even more people can benefit from the measure, and so that even more parents are given the opportunity to have more time with their children. We have to hold on to the fact that it is the family that has responsibility for the children. The Progress Party will therefore warn against a development in which society is increasingly increasing its traditional tasks and thus further weakening the role of the family in society. Unfortunately, it is not possible to get past the fact that very many marriages and consensual relationships are dissolved, and there is no doubt that the children are becoming the loser in such matters. In particular, we have seen in child-sharing cases that the level of conflict can be very high and that children are used as weapons in the conflict. The Progress Party wants to protect children from such conflicts. We therefore want a greater commitment to the brokerage tool at the family protection offices, and that they are able to negotiate even in the very acute conflicts, so as to avoid harming the children. All children have the right to a good upbringing and the right to two parents. The Progress Party will continue to work to prevent children from becoming losers, and we will do what we can to secure children and young people's growth conditions. The Progress Party believes that the vast majority of children are best off with their parents and that the measures taken through child protection are as much as possible implemented at home. We get almost weekly enquiries from parents who feel overwhelmed by child protection. Parents and children do not feel that their legal certainty is being properly ensured. In a democratic society, no one must feel that the public is being overwhelmed. That's why we want to strengthen this chapter of the budget somewhat, so that we get a quality assurance of the work being done in the child protection sector, both in the counties and in the municipalities. Now it might sound like I'm painting black, but today's society isn't just bright either. True, most children have very good and live in safe, stable family relationships. But it's not going to come from the fact that there's actually a part that doesn't, and that seeks out in violent threads to get accepted and find its identity. The Progress Party looks with concern at a trend in which more and more criminal acts are being carried out by the youngest young people. The press areas are undoubtedly the big cities. The Progress Party therefore wants to strengthen the budget in the area of violence prevention. No one wants a society characterized by violence. Nor does anyone want anyone to feel insecure if they go out after the dawn of darkness. The Progress Party wants a secure society for all, where legal certainty is ensured and the family is the single point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e512	In the fields of family, gender, child and consumer policy, there is broad consensus among the parties in many important policy areas. Such an important area is child care, which has been given a special priority in the 2002 budget, which I am very pleased with. The government is working towards full child-care coverage during 2003 and non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens. At the same time, we will significantly increase public funding, so that parental pay falls to a level of 20 pst in 2005. of the cost of a kindergarten space. For most users, this will mean an approximate halving of the parental payment compared to what they pay today. The funds entered in the 2002 budget are the first steps in the process of stepping up as launched in the context of the co-financing of the revised national budget and the 2002 municipalproposition. A prerequisite for increased freedom of choice and equality for young children's parents is that the family has the finances to choose the form of care that best suits them. That is why, in addition to following up on the cash support, we want to facilitate both more kindergartens and cheaper kindergartens. Better availability could lead to increased demand. We therefore have to assume that several kindergartens may have to be built after 2003. We also need to be better equipped to meet the needs of part-time jobs. Today, we do not have formal sanctions in relation to municipalities or private nursery owners who do not reduce the parental payment. However, I will keep up with the development of the parental payment and consider introducing new measures if necessary. But based on what is done and planned, the parental payment should now gradually be stepped down. The parents expect that, I expect that, and I'm worried about what we see happening in some municipalities. In order to ensure the best possible offer for users irrespective of who owns the nursery, public and private kindergartens should be treated equally by the public. In order to achieve the objectives, both full development and lower parental pay, the Government wants to change the financing of the sector. Our proposal for a new funding scheme involves bringing together all public funds for the operation of kindergartens into one state grant granted directly to each nursery. A cross-ministerial sample shall now work on its organisation in contact with representatives of the nursery owners. The arrangement should be ready for spring. A new funding scheme will provide better and more predictable operating conditions for all kindergartens and, hopefully, better childcare facilities for children. But at the same time, I am aware that changing funding gives us some new challenges. It concerns the relationship with municipalities and their role in a future sector. This applies to all children with special needs to ensure a good childcare provision, and to the quality of kindergarten provision. This also poses the challenge of ensuring the availability of sufficient qualified staff. Good dialogue with the levels of government, organisations and sector owners will have a high priority in the further work. In the context of the discussion of the issue of child care in spring 2000, Stortinget asked for a proposal for a statutory obligation for municipalities to provide adequate childcare facilities. I will deal with this matter in the context of a comprehensive review of the Kindergarten Act and the new grant scheme. The implementation of the kindergarten reform is a high priority matter for the Government. At the same time, it is important for me to stress that there should be freedom of choice for young children's parents. Kindergarten shall be a voluntary offer, and for those who have children between 1 and 3 years of age, cash support shall be an alternative to kindergarten. In order to make the freedom of choice more real, the Government will increase the cash support during the down payment period. We will also return to strengthening the rights of fathers in the maternity leave scheme. The extension of the parental quota will be an important measure to provide fathers with more care experience and thus also to strengthen equality in young children’s families. The government wants to pursue a family policy that helps to strengthen equality in society, and gives men and women real opportunities to participate on a equal footing both in working and organisational life and in family life. The family pattern is changing, and a forward-looking family policy must take into account all types of families. The government aims to provide a broad family communication and also follow up the ‘Sambergs and society’ investigation. The 2002 budget facilitates the pooling of grants to family and gender policy organisations and the application procedure to the State Youth and Adoption Office. We are not satisfied until we see that the grant criteria are simple, while emphasis is placed on non-discrimination. The Government also wants to strengthen the breadth of organisational life, and believes that this is best done by providing public support as far as possible as operating grants rather than activity and project support. Voluntary organisations are an important social meeting place, developing democracy and creating greater participation in society. It is therefore important to ensure voluntary organisations through adequate and stable conditions, which can stimulate increased efforts in and around organisations. Work to ensure good growth and living conditions for children and young people is a high priority, and in the State budget we are committed to a broad focus on children and young people. An overall objective is to provide good opportunities for all children and young people. As part of our efforts to improve the quality of life and growth, we will present our own information on children and young people during 2002. Inclusion and equivalent development opportunities are an important perspective for this message. In order to facilitate a good policy for all, we also see it as important to continue the special effort aimed at young people in larger cities through the ‘Youth action in larger urban communities’ grant scheme. New of the year is that the Government wants to encourage the city councils concerned to prioritise themselves within the award criteria. 80 pst. the allocation will be proportionally distributed between the municipalities so that they can decide for themselves which measures and projects fall within the scheme and in what order they are to be prioritised. The remaining 20 pst. shall be used for immediate action to address tasks and problems of a more acute nature in the youth environment locally and for development work aimed at municipalities. The co-operation regime will focus more strongly on the prevention of child protection. First of all, parents and the surrounding environment must be given the opportunity to solve these problems. Only when adequately tested shall it be appropriate to separate children from their parents. When the public takes care of a child, it often happens because the auxiliaries do not have the power to provide good enough help in previous phases. And precisely by stepping up prevention efforts, we hope that more people will be helped, while dramatic measures become less frequent and parents’ care is not weakened. Through a stronger focus on preventive family work, society will in the long term be able to achieve significant savings in the form of more functional families, fewer expensive care and treatment measures and less crime and other serious behavioural problems. I want to send a big message about child protection as soon as possible. I also refer to the Government's work on measures to combat poverty. Child protection sees that poor people are often parents who are lone parents, they often have immigrant backgrounds, they may have problems with drugs, they may be unemployed, etc. We have a big challenge here. Increased efforts to prevent family work could be a major factor in the work of child protection with these groups. The government also wants to support the family through measures to help ensure a good and sustainable life and a good parental function. In particular, we want to strengthen family protection, and that is why we have added 500,000 kroner to a plan of development of competence for the entire family protection service. This will be implemented as soon as possible in 2002. These include: the need for increased competence in mediation in cases where there is a high level of conflict between parents. Furthermore, as part of the Disability Action Plan, it is set at 4.5 million. SEK for the development of life-offers for families with disabled children. This offer will be developed by the selected family protection office. So a little bit about the consumer area. There we will counteract the commercial pressure on children and young people and build attitudes towards the purchasing press. It is particularly important that the school does not become the venue for marketing and commercialisation. We aim to bring back concrete measures in this area and to consider changes in the marketing law. We are also aiming at a new governance model in the Consumer Council, which will be implemented in mid-2002. After several years of evaluating different solutions, I see it as important that this case be closed. The aim is to provide the Consumer Council with powers that are better adapted to the organisation’s position and purpose paragraph, while at the same time introducing a simpler and more efficient decision-making structure. I believe that the solution proposed by a separate board will improve the ability of the Consumer Council to meet the consumer policy challenges ahead. However, this requires that they be given room for action at the same time in order to adapt the structure of the challenges and resource frameworks they face. Finally, some words to Eirin Fallet. She says that I've addressed a warning index finger to people who choose cohabitation. I didn't. What was alarming to the Council of State, and which was the subject of this article, was a report on the violation of life. What was alarming to me was that many children are hit by broken life. It's three times more frequent fractures in cohabitation than it is in marriage. What was alarming was that cohabitation is disintegrating, and the children are hit. The children will be the focus of all our policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e564	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e568	Let me begin by commending the Council of State for essentially following up the budget of its predecessors in the area of children and families. This means that we have a very good budget in this area. But the Council of State was very clear that the new Bondevik government will increase the cash support during the down payment period. There she gave a clear and unambiguous promise. She was not quite as clear about the kindergarten bet. The government of Stoltenberg promised that we would spend SEK 5.6 billion on increasing the kindergarten rate in the years to come, and I wish the Council of State could clearly and unequivocally say that the goal is also firm with the new government. In addition, we said that at the end of the period, in 2006, we would introduce a right to kindergarten. It would be clarifying if the Council of State could say that the new government also stands firm on that goal. So to the debate on cohabitation versus marriage. Of course, we fully agree with the Labour Party that all children must have a safe upbringing, and that we should do everything we can to make it happen. But does the council believe that children are better off with married parents than with cohabiting parents? It would be very nice if it could also be cleared from the Storting's pulpit. What we do as politicians, what we mean, what we say and what we decide, is of great importance, and especially when the Davøy Council, which is responsible for, among other things, equality and equivalency. She has not rightly said that she is a homosexual minister, as her predecessor, but I have a specific question in this area: Can the Council of State of the United Kingdom say that the new government considers it equivalent to being gay and living as a homophile, as being heterophile? It would also have been a clear and clear signal that would mean a lot to thousands of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e579	The Stoltenberg government provided a very good basis for a very offensive and good budget for the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. We very much agree on that, and it was a pleasure as I said to follow up. It is true that we have said that we should increase the cash support during the period. In terms of kindergarten spending and the number of billions it will cost in the future, it will depend on the demand for kindergarten places. I guess we don't know per. the current date how large this will be – I think approx. 70 pst. coverage, in line with what the Stortinget said earlier. It's true, as I said in my post, that there might be more demand when the parental payment goes down. But when we also increase the cash support, we don't know what the result would be. That's why I haven't been able to confirm, and I can't confirm whether the figure of NOK 5 billion is going to be the right figure in terms of demand. It's based on, as I've understood from the calculations of the Stoltenberg government, an 80 pst. coverage. We have to get back to this. When it comes to the right to babysitting, I can't tell you what we're going to land on in that context either, but all these questions are going to be addressed by the Government in the future. In the case of cohabitation, there is no doubt that the Christian People's Party, which is the party from which I come, believes that marriage is the best thing for living. But with regard to the representative Giske's question, we have said very clearly in the Sem statement that we believe marriage provides the best framework for children's growth. The point is that marriage is likely to be something more obligating than cohabitation. That's why it was also very interesting to get a research report that actually shows that cohabitation dissolves three times more frequently than marriage. That's my starting point for the answer. It looks as if marriage is more obligating. Once again, the children whose marriage is broken up are affected. To the last: All people are equivalent, regardless of orientation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e592	The Council of State spoke hotly about gender equality and fathers' rights at maternity leave. We've heard that cohabitation is broken up three times more often than marriage, and we know that very many cohabiting men are not equal in today's society as regards the right to care for their children. Well, then, there's a lot of evidence that there's a huge conflict and a huge challenge just in this sector. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: when will there be a change in law that gives children of cohabiting parents equal rights to children of married parents, in view of the right of two parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e597	I agree with Mr Woldseth that we have a good deal to do in terms of equality, also in terms of the care of our own children. My principle view and starting point is that children have the right to both parents. It is also important that children know who their parents are, and that they are allowed to have contact with both parents in every way possible. One of the things we're going to deal with immediately over the New Year and working with politics is the follow-up of, among other things. the maternity benefit scheme, where a number of conditions are also related to men. I'm thinking about paper magazine. I'm thinking about making up my own birth money. I have also announced that I am conducting a review to look at the possibilities for a change in the law in terms of DNA testing. I'm actually going to take a position on that relatively quickly over the New Year. So there's a bunch of things on the table that we're going to work with as fast as we can. With regard to the birth grant scheme, it's a tough thing. It'll take some time, but we'll start working just over New Year's.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e604	I am glad that the Council of State was involved in preventive work in relation to children and young people and so strongly agreed that there would be a field of activity within our field. After all, we have had a negative development in youth settings, with more alcohol, more violence, exclusion – quite problematic conditions in many places. Due to poor local economy, recreational clubs and youth-oriented interventions are being closed down. My question is, how does the Council of State defend that we now have a government budget where the allocation of youth measures in larger urban communities is being reduced? That entry has been reduced. The item for children’s and young people’s interventions is not price adjusted and has been reduced from 2001. The grant to non-governmental organisations is also not price-adjusted. What concrete action will the Council of State take to address the problems facing municipalities in the various youth settings?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e611	It is important and right that we are involved in prevention work for children and young people. If we're going to be able to do something for this important group, in terms of drugs, in terms of violence, in terms of exclusion – a lot of this is quite alarming and has been for many years – I think that one of the most important measures might be to coordinate our efforts better than what we've done for each. today. That means that we have a challenge at both central and local level. On the part of the Government, we have set up a coordination group of a number of state secretaries, but also on a political level, otherwise we will try and seek as best we can, to coordinate all the actions aimed at children and young people, including with regard to all these problems raised by the representative here. We have also facilitated increased coordination for meetings between some important organisations and the Government. We have already had several meetings with organisations where several political leaders, state councils and others have been present. It has also proved very useful and very active in providing good ideas and creative solutions for new actions. As far as voluntary organisations are concerned, it is not quite right that we do not provide increased subsidies, because we are going to implement full VAT compensation for these in the context of the new VAT reform. In addition, we believe that some of the funds we have spent — relatively well with funds — may also go directly to these organisations. Voluntary work is very important in the field of youth policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e620	As I said in my post, poverty should not be a theme in one of the world's richest countries. But the reality of many thousands is poverty, reality is counter-solved, and reality is isolation as a result of poverty. That's the facts. I have the following questions to the Council of State: Why will the Government keep cash out of the calculation of social assistance, and not child welfare? It's rarely that social nud asks for age. It may be far worse and harder for a teenager than for a two-year-old to be kept away from social intercourse with friends. I would like the Council of State to provide a basis for the need to give families with children under three years of age a more dignified life than the thousands of families who have children between 3 and 18 years of age. It's been negotiated to give everyone a right to a nursery place. I now understand that it may be changing, after what the Council of State said in its article. Unit price financing raises many questions. One of the questions is: Is the government going beyond what has been a delineated principle, that it is the municipalities that should be responsible for providing a childcare facility, when they now propose that the framework transfers be drawn out and given to the individual nursery? And what about children with special needs, such as the Council of State itself? Does the Government consider giving the municipalities responsibility for them, or perhaps it is the state that is going to instruct the private kindergartens to bring in these children with special needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e629	With regard to the decision on social rates and what to include and what not, it is the social minister's table, but I am responsible for the cash support, so I answer this question. The answer I have – and the representative knows it for sure – is: The starting point for the entire cash support scheme was that someone is getting a nursery place in Norway today that is heavily subsidised by the state. The Christian People's Party has wanted to provide an alternative opportunity for a kind of -- let's say -- subsidising parents who choose to be at home with their children. Therefore, the cash support was introduced. This is also why it is excluded from the calculation of social assistance. When it comes to freedom of choice and full child care coverage, we haven't gone from anything. The representative suggests that this government will not have full child-care coverage. It is a misinterpretation of what I have tried to say. We want to carry out full child care coverage. If the freedom of choice is to be real, if people are actually to be allowed to choose whether they want a kindergarten or cash support, we have to have full child care coverage. But I've said that we don't know the level. We're going to do ongoing investigations along the way. We're based on what Stortinget has said. So, at a price. I want to distance myself from someone calling it a price. We call it introducing a new funding model. It is not a piece price in that way that the money is to be given to the parents, who will then pay this out on their own. We are in close dialogue with the KS on the role of municipalities in the future financing model. I just want to make it clear that the kindergartens are of course going to take care of all the children, including the weak ones. We have to deal with this in a way that makes everyone get the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e644	A little back to the representative Giske's question. The representative did not ask if all people are equivalent. The question was whether the government thought that living as a homophile is equivalent to living as a heterophile. I hope that the Council of State can give us a clear answer. So to something else. It also goes to kindergarten. One of the most important tasks and the big promise we're facing is getting more kindergarten places and getting prices down. In the Council of State, Bekkemelm Orheim's time, this was the top priority. It says the Council of State Davøy that it is also in the Bondevik administration, but I wish she could clarify it a little more. I don't think it came out quite well in the post to the Council of State. But in addition to getting money, the Council of State Orheim was also in its time a watchman to the municipalities. Although she did not have a legal basis to intervene against those who did not use the money to reduce the prices, she put the search light on the municipalities, which made us last summer see that prices went down for the first time in many years. Now we see again that the municipalities are putting the babysitting money into the large drain. Unfortunately, we have not seen that the Swedish Council of State has had any major play-outs in that regard in relation to the municipalities. What, then, has the Council of State intended to do with the municipalities and kindergarten owners, who, until next year, will use the nursery bill to balance the budgets? And does the Council of State not see that there is also an active attitude towards the kindergarten owners in the bet on kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e655	We have a common goal with regard to kindergartens. We have said again and again – and it is also stated in the budget position – that we want kindergarten for all parents who want it. That so the Workers' Party has chosen to suggest in its budget that there will be a need for 80 pst. Childcare facilities are now covered. I have behaved and said externally that we have provisionally calculated from 70 p.m., because we also want to increase the cash support. Something clearer than that really can't be said. We want to be realistic, too, in relation to the need. We're going to follow developments, we're going to conduct investigations. And as I said earlier today – and I mean it sincerely: if the freedom of choice for parents is to become real, we must have full child care coverage, as parents need it, get kindergarten space. When it comes to being a janitor, I have already had a meeting with the Municipal Councils Central and expressed my great concern that some municipalities suggest that they will not reduce the parental payment in their budget. I have also seen that the opposite has happened – that some municipalities have notified it, and then to go back to it again when they finally draft their budgets, and say that they still reduce the parental payment. I hope that there will be such a strong pressure on local communities that need kindergarten, that they do not dare not drop the parental payment. As I said in my post: I am going to be a janitor to the municipalities, and we are going to assess whether we are going to initiate measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e664	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e668	Both in the election campaign and afterwards, poverty and unfair distribution have been a major focus. It is outrageous when you see in a country as rich as ours that individuals and families still don't have what they need. In particular, it is outrageous when poverty affects children who have done nothing wrong but be born to parents with poor finances. We did a study in the Ministry of Education on the self-payment in school and problems around it, and it turned out that 1.5 pst. parents had experienced having to refuse children to participate in school-based activities because of poor finances. It might sound a little bit, but it actually means that over 10,000 children experience having to stand on the platform when the rest of the class goes on a trip or other activities. We can only imagine what it feels like for an 8-, 10- or 12-year-old to be left alone when the rest of the class withdraws from the farm – what it does with self-esteem and self-image. That's why it's important to do everything we can to correct the biases. Of course, the most important thing is to correct the economy of parents. A lot is about getting everyone to work. It is an economic policy which has full employment as its overall objective, it is labour market measures, it is a question of continuing training and retraining. Of course, it is about social interventions, drug services and relief measures, but it is also about having basic, reasonable welfare schemes, cheap and free-of-charge housing and welfare goods, or available at a low price. Cheap kindergarten, cheap school leisure, that we have a free school, often means much more to the economy of these families than a few hundred patches of tax havens. The Stoltenberg government had ambitious objectives in this area. We would, over the period, halve the price of the school leisure scheme, i.e. bring it below NOK 1000 on average per year. month, we would get the kindergarten price down to an average of NOK 1 300 a month, we suggested introducing free camp school and free school books right up to high school. Much has already been done in the 2002 state budget. The new government has followed up part of this, and it deserves to be commended by the Council of State. Other things have not been followed up, such as: free books in secondary school. This means that parents still have to pay NOK 3000–4,000 every August just to have their children in a school that everyone now has the right to attend. I hope that the new government will follow up these goals of creating a free school, cheap kindergartens and cheap school leisure arrangements for all families – for all children. It is a fundamental question whether we should have welfare schemes that cover everyone – whether that is what Gerhardsen once said, that the only certificate one should have to participate in the welfare community is the birth certificate, or whether we should have needs-tested schemes with free places or grants for the poor. There is a fundamental difference in social views between having a universal welfare state or special arrangements. The aim of the Workers' Party is a welfare society that embraces all, and that does not put people into categories by economy and income. It is also important to ensure that welfare systems are well-developed, and it is, in fact, alarming that the Davay State Council has said in this debate. Today we have been told that the target for full child care coverage has been reduced from 80 pst. to 70 pst. That's a pretty dramatic number. 70 pst. will mean 20,000 new kindergartens, and 80 pst. This means 50,000 new kindergartens. So the difference is 30,000 places. The Council of State refers to the cash support and its increase as a reason for reducing the ambitions of kindergarten development. However, the cash support study shows that there are a lot of parents who receive cash support, who say that the reason they do is that they do not actually get a babysitting facility. So there's a relationship between who uses the cash support scheme and the development of kindergartens. That's why, from the Workers' Party, we want to fight actively to maintain the goal of developing kindergartens, that we bet as much as the Workers' Party had as ambition, that is, more than DKK 5 billion in the period that comes, and that we make sure that during the period we reach the goal of establishing a right for everyone to have a kindergarten. It is a fundamental welfare asset in a society where both parents want to have a career and a working life, and thus also full equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e681	The family is our most important community and the most important and stable framework for children's growth. It should be obvious that parents have the primary responsibility for child education because the mission promotes norms, attitudes and values of those raised. It also has a value to do, because it promotes a sense of responsibility, which strengthens care, care and a sense of duty between parents and children in a way that public institutions cannot replace. However, in cases where home does not have the power to care, society has a special obligation to organise schemes that ensure that all children receive good care and growth conditions. For us, it is essential that a family policy is put in place that gives all families of children real freedom of choice in choosing which care solutions they want for their children. In this context, cash support is a valuable contribution. It's worth noting that 76.6 pst. by children aged between 1 and 3 years in this country are taking part in the cash support scheme. This makes it clear that the cash support is still a popular scheme. The cash support evaluation that existed in the spring of 2001 showed that almost two thirds of those receiving cash support were mainly cared for by one of the parents. One third of those who worked at home with cash support said it was the cash support that enabled this choice to be realised. This underlines that the left-hand side's horror vision of the cash support has not enabled. Cash support gives freedom of choice and flexibility and makes everyday life easier for a lot of people. A prerequisite for increased freedom of choice and equal opportunities for young children’s parents is that families have both the financial resources to choose the form of care and the availability of more and cheaper childcare facilities. We are therefore very satisfied with the co-operation government's offensive child care effort of DKK 1 billion in increased transfers to kindergartens in the budget for next year. In addition, the operating grant price adjustment of SEK 170 million is added. kr in increased means of operation, which are intended to improve the quality and establishment of new kindergartens. This is an important effort to achieve the objective of full childcare by 2003. I am also very pleased that the Government has now received a majority in favour of its proposal for a new funding model for kindergartens, which was also discussed by the committee leader. This is an important step towards ensuring a level playing field for all kindergartens, providing a more diverse range of services in line with the different needs of families, and not least more kindergartens and lower parental payments in the long term. I think it's in place to stress that this is a process that will take time, but the first necessary approach is to achieve an equality between private and municipal kindergartens. This alone will be an enormous boost in the kindergarten sector. Then you have to start looking at what can be done to get even more reasonable kindergartens. It requires constructive cooperation, inter alia: between the PBL, the municipalities and the State. We see that higher and higher spending on the state budget does not reach the families of children and kindergartens. It's unacceptable! The co-financing model of the co-operation administration will ensure that the grants come forward and give greater flexibility to kindergartens. At the same time, it will help to speed up the achievement of the objective of full childcare provision. It is also very gratifying that a majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, is in favour of the continuation of the project with free short-term childcare facilities to all four- and five-year-olds in the inner East of Oslo, which had not been proposed by the Stoltenberg Government in its 2002 budget proposal. In fact, this is a very good offer, not least for children with a minority background, to improve their integration and language training and to increase the participation of these children in kindergartens. The results and experience available are very positive in relation to the previous situation, where the school establishment in Oslo, before this project was started, reported that three out of four students with a different native language had very poor or missing Norwegian skills when they started in 1st grade. After this project started, significant improvements have been made. A concrete example of this is the Old Town School in Oslo, which has 80 pst. students with a minority background and the language skills of these students have varied widely. In the past, the school has used considerable financial resources in support education to get students with poor Norwegian skills to follow regular education. This school now reports that children who start school after attending this short-term kindergarten offer for one year before school start get a much better start, which prevents them from becoming school losers later. In addition, the school saves considerable resources that had otherwise gone to support education. Now we will receive an evaluation of this project by spring, which will provide a basis for looking at the possibility of extending this to other parts of the country. This is also a proposal to which a majority of the Committee wishes the Government to return in the context of the revised national budget after the necessary evaluation has been carried out. Then I want to move on to another important issue, and that's violence against women. This is actually a growing and serious problem here in the country. Figures from the FOKUS Forum on Women and Development show that: In 2000, it was estimated that 53 000 people contact the country's crisis centres, and the majority of them were women every year, 2 500 women have to stay at one of the country's crisis centres because of male violence over 1000 women in Norway are on the run and live in secret addresses because of male violence This shows some of the extent of this issue, but nevertheless there are only a few of the women who are subjected to violence and abuse, who are making contact with the auxiliaries or police, which underlines the need to make the problem visible, because it will motivate more people to care and engage. The fact that women are subjected to violence in their everyday lives greatly limits their ability to participate actively in society. In addition, this is an infringement of women’s fundamental freedoms and fundamental human rights that are not to be accepted. The increasing proportion of women with a minority background seeking refuge in crisis centres must also be taken seriously. These women often have a lack of networks outside the family and weak links with the labour market, and the problems therefore become more complex in relation to these women. Here, I think it's important to both help staff who have competence and knowledge of other cultures, and actions that are better suited to the needs of these women for help to be able to stand on their own. Here I would like to emphasise two important measures that I believe need to be prioritised. Firstly, we need to provide good and targeted Norwegian training that allows us to get out of work. Secondly, we need an effective authorisation system to demonstrate the competences of these women so that they can become independent and participate in social and work life in the same way as other equalised women. In addition, greater emphasis needs to be placed on men’s own responsibility for the exercise of violence. It is important to take action in relation to men who commit violence in order to prevent violence. Here, I consider the establishment of the Human Rights Centre Reform, which is to offer advice and help to men in crisis and conflict, as an important contribution. Finally, I would like to stress that I believe that we have reached a good and responsible budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party in the Committee, which further strengthens the efforts of the Cooperative Government in both the family and administrative fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e723	The party to progress is strongly dependent on flexible pension schemes. I record that the Progress Party is now alone to be skeptical of the AFP scheme. It appears that there has been a wide-ranging understanding of the extension of the AFP scheme and will soon apply to all public sector employees. The progress party has always been ready in its place. We were together with the Right Previous. I think it is a little strange that representatives from both the Workers' Party and SV are now standing up and cheering that they have raised the limit of freedom, so that those who go to the AFP will earn 15 000 kroner a year. It is against what was said at the time the AFP scheme was introduced. The reason for this was that there were a lot of people who were in heavy work, and who simply needed to get out of work a little earlier than others. Now that's not the situation. The situation is that more and more people join the AFP system without being at all worn out by the work they have been doing. In fact, the situation is also such that the first members of the AFP scheme in their time are paid more through the AFP than if they had been in the job. This in a situation where we have been frightened by labour for several years. I think it's a little pointless. In addition, government employees have a parachute called waiting pay. In ten years, the sum of waiting wages has increased from 25 million. NOK 270 million. kr, with which it is budgeted for the following year. People who are not needed in the state sector are put in conversion or in a job bank or whatever, and are paid full pay. It was at a time when we were yelling at the workers. In addition to this, we also have a favourable housing loan scheme for government employees, where members of the State pension fund can receive housing loans up to 500 000 kroner to 6.5 pst. interest rate. Next year, there will be a framework of SEK 1.5 billion for such loans. I hope that the Norman Government in its modernisation, renewal or anything, will also look at such arrangements as most people seem very, very unfair. I also record that the Workers' Party and SV are very concerned that the price subsidy is being removed or reduced. It's not been more than three years since Bondevik I – was it well – removed the shipping subsidy last time, but then it was so alarmed from the districts that it was reintroduced. The Competition Authority has now repeatedly said that this freight subsidy does not at all affect the prices of petrol in the districts. But anyway, this money is going to be in place. The studies that came three years ago concluded that the maximum weight of the cargo premium could be 5-6 øre in the districts. Interestingly, Namdals-Avisa concludes that there is full price war on petrol in the districts. The cheapest petrol you get in the most pig-grown strokes, they get 50 cents cheaper than in the central ones. I also think the Council of State Norman should look at that arrangement. Then I'll say a few words about kindergartens. It seems to me that the left-hand side is still of the opinion that 80 pst. of the children shall go to kindergarten, for it is kindergarten. 80 pst. Child care coverage – in which case they have stated that in four years 80 pst. of the children go to kindergarten. The party of progress is strongly opposed to it, and we are pleased that we are now taking a step on the way to establishing a single price system. But I hope the Council of State makes sure that those funds go directly to the kindergartens and do not take the detour of the municipalities or county municipalities, because then we are equidistant. Finally, I have to comment on the state council's statement that in the new year she will come up with legislative proposals on DNA testing. Now it is the case that the Progress Party promoted a proposal in the Grand Duchy six months ago. It's quality assured. It has received a technical review, so that the legislative amendments that are there are what are needed to bring about the amendment of the law. To spend another year at the hearing to get through this, I see it as completely unnecessary. In addition, I would like to mention that the Progress Party was promoting this proposal for the first time in 1996, and it was very, very well received. So I hope that the Council of State now sees that the proposal under consideration in the Storting is what is going to be crucial, and that the Storting Committee decides to support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e740	I could have been tempted after the representative Sandberg's comments to comment on some of it. I'm not going to say that in terms of both AFP pensioners, state employees, the need for kindergartens and, to the extent that also freight balancing in the districts, I think the Progress Party and the Sandberg representative gave us many good arguments for the next election campaign when we're going to fight about who really are the representatives of the small corps in this house. But first of all, I want to tell you about a dramatic experience I was a participant in last week. It's an experience that's burned into me. Then I observed between 100 and 200 young people in Bærum, noisy and exhausting, with no boundaries and little freckles in style, massive reproduction and full speed in all directions. My only thought was, Will this go well? In contrast to the press and others with bastful opinions about hopeless youth, I was not in one of the city's squares, but as a spectator at the Rud High School's musical launch "Romeo and Julie" – a fantastic professional fireworks of a setup, which has given me something to think about, and which should be of great relevance to the budget debates here in Stortinget. Most children and young people here in Norway are doing well, and they are doing well. They have huge resources that most people use to the full. It's just so sad that Akersgata's newspapers aren't willing to use one millimeter of fission on the stakes, for example. in Rud high school, but to a large extent focuses on the few young people who are concerned about undesirable behaviour. In terms of prevention work and how we should assess it, I think we are just facing one of the main challenges facing us politicians in the future. It's actually more important than ever to hold on to what we've done. Despite the agreement on the budget and to the extent that the good words that have been in this budget debate, I believe that one of the main challenges in the future is to be able to maintain the course that has been prevailing in relation to children and young people. If it turns out that it is taxation policy that is going to hit children and young people in many ways first and foremost, I am afraid that we will have a much bigger spending side than what we see in relation to child and youth action today. Subsidies to local, regional and central cultural activities, youth work, yes, offering a place to be, are not always what is in line when we politicians are to balance our tight budgets. In this way, the government's plans for the future are particularly interesting. Where is the future tax relief going to be? Despite the idyll in most youth settings, we know that the challenges are in line. We see trends in more violence in larger cities, unwanted reproductions and a debutant that sinks in the use of alcohol and drugs. Several traditional district municipalities report — and have done so for several weeks — a marked increase in the use of drugs in younger age groups. Methadone, coercive treatment and Subutex are not the answer to these challenges, although the drug debate is mostly about it. Numbers also show that a small number of children commit many crimes and that they start early. According to a report on the 15 most reported child-rearers in Oslo in 1999, several of them had a significant number of crimes behind them before the age of 15, without the parents or society being able to put an end to their crime. This and other examples show that public bodies have failed to coordinate their efforts and prevent a criminal career by taking early action. Therefore, it is my hope that the Government is now actually following up the work of the government of Stoltenberg to combat childhood and juvenile delinquency. There was just a reference to interventions — which have been out of the question — such as the use of drugs. concerned discussions, community follow-up teams, extended leisure activities, therapeutic relief measures, extended use of the conflict councils — but perhaps most importantly: creating a society with smaller differences and a common integrated school, where the differences between students are to create community and not distance. For children under 15 years of age, punishment as an instrument must work. Here, child protection is central. The starting point of child protection should not, or should, be the individual offence, but an overall assessment of the child’s care situation and, where appropriate, the need for assistance. Therefore, there may and will be situations today in which the child does not experience any follow-up from society, even though the child has done something that both the child himself and society know is wrong. We can't do that, and it's my opinion that the Stoltenberg government's proposal for action on child and youth crime is actually an important step towards a society that ensures the follow-up of children and young people who commit crime. But most importantly, it is to further develop society with a view to smaller differences and active, open actions. As far as measures for children and young people are concerned, the expression of saving has been very valid.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e757	In the annual debates on the budgets of these two departments, the emphasis, which is most often for the benefit of the Ministry of Child and Family Affairs at the expense of the Ministry of Administration, has been cut off. It has been considered to be little policy in this department. Now this might not have been so obvious this time. That is good in that case, because this is precisely a key department in ensuring that the entire administration works well and efficiently. As far as the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs is concerned, I would just like to refer to my colleague Dagrun Eriksen's posts and focus on some points in the Department of Administration's budget. On our side, we are very pleased that this budget will be adopted without numerical changes, with the subsidiary support of the Workers' Party through the budget agreement. The Minister of Administration has announced a comprehensive report on the renewal of the public sector throughout the year. There is reason to respond to both this statement and the further stress process. This is a work both on the committee and on the whole on the right to prioritise. Not least, it is important that we take the time to properly round the objectives and main priorities of modernisation. But the very strategic implementation of the process is also crucial for success. I have found that the new minister seems to have both very good insight and the progress towards, or ‘goods’ that must be made to do this. And this is something that concerns us all. Therefore, it is also very positive that the Council of State has so clearly announced that this should not be a solo run, but has called for broad cooperation with all parties. We also hope that it will succeed, because broad digestion is a decisive prerequisite in the work for a good result. One of the important questions that needs to be asked when designing a good governance policy is why we have the welfare state. The welfare state is built to realize values. This does not mean that public authorities should take responsibility for all aspects of human life, but primarily ensure the security of each member of society. It's about securing fundamental values like human dignity, neighbourly love, care and equivalency, that sounds easy as naturalities, but that's not at all. Discussions on the renewal and modernisation of the public sector are very often heard in both language and content as if it were any listed company. Therefore, I think it is important to stress that all reforms and renewal programmes need to be assessed first and foremost, is whether they contribute to strengthening the values on which the welfare society is to realise and build. And these values also don't always measure on a scale of numbers. One of the points on which there has been a discussion in the budget is a proposal to increase the possibility for AFP pensioners to earn a few more dollars without being drawn into the pension. It's very understandable that many want to be able to use their powers to add to the income in this period of life. They must be wrong. I entirely agree with the statements of the Council of State today on this, because we have to believe that this is a scheme that has come about as a result of negotiations between the organisations and the state. It makes it necessary to exercise caution in amending parts of the Agreement without having entered into negotiations. Of course, we are pleased that an income limit of NOK 15 000 can now be set, so that the group concerned can carry out a somewhat larger amount of less work without conflicting with the scheme. Staff also belong to the Ministry of Labour and Administration. They're probably not the group that makes a lot of noise around their problems either. I think we should have this in mind, not least in connection with the reorganisation of the county council. With regard to economic resources, this may indicate that the situation varies slightly from office to office. In any case, a varying degree of target achievement between offices may indicate this. We therefore welcome the announced comparison of the county offices on this basis. The results of this should at least lead to the redistribution of resources between offices. It is important that this part of our administration also works well. It is partly a long waiting period for complaints in key social areas, and is one of several confirmations that, if the population does not receive the necessary resources, it is up to the individual citizen to do so. I had thought I would finally say something about the use of the plot area on the western runway, which is described in more detail in the setting. I refer to the comments in the setting, and I expect you to read what it says.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e783	For some years, efficiency and modernisation have been on the agenda of this room, with NOU 2000:19. It has now also been on the agenda in Kommune-Norge – this to correct the municipal economy in a number of municipalities. In many contexts, it may be very useful to assess efficiency, modernisation, rationalisation and many other measures that would make the public sector more cost-effective and better quality of services, by also setting quality requirements. It helps little to produce at low cost if the quality is reduced. In order to use a practical example, the rapid modernisation of Enebakk municipality will start: when the municipality will cover a deficit of between 10 and 12 million. kr, the representative of the Central Party in the Presidency of Enebakk shall promote a proposal involving the dismissal of seven-eight employees over the table. This was given a majority, but this is not a model The Progress Party believes is the best solution for modernisation and efficiency. Another example: the nursery service in the municipality from which I come had been very poor, had not entered into a cooperation with the private kindergartens. But here it would also be important to ensure that the money follows the user, which means a free user choice where the user can choose who will provide the service, and a fairer distribution of childcare facilities. Nor is it a good process for efficiency and modernisation chosen by the municipality of Nitdal: a budget so tight that it is due to a solid crack – almost before the budget was adopted in the Presidency and was pale – and without going into a work that looks at the possibility of efficiency and modernisation. The Progress Party also believes that allowing more actors on the railway network is an improvement in efficiency that will benefit customers and users, with a better offer, better prices and better service. Several actors in the media, in TV and radio – not just the NRK monopoly – make the offer to the population a bit better, which I believe it has become. A change in the media has led to a much larger offer. I guess we can all agree on that, even though we can discuss something about quality. Finally, exposure to competition, competitive tendering and public–private cooperation are concepts that are often used in one another. Public activities should assess this in order to achieve results in a modernisation process. The Party considers that exposure to competition can be used to promote efficiency without jeopardising important governance considerations. The desire to improve the quality of services can also be a good reason for competitive exposure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e802	The debate on this area has ended. We shall then proceed to the debate on Framework Box 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e807	I will first fix a number budget error on page 129, chapter 323 item 78, where there will be 34 907 000 kroner. And on page 130, chapter 326, entry 78, it's going to be 54 581,000 kroner. Also for the cultural budget, a settlement has been concluded between the government parties and the Workers' Party. The results show that there is a broad consensus on the main objectives of cultural policy, although the instruments in some areas are different. Art and culture are important to most people and in any society. Promoting art and taking care of cultural heritage is becoming even more important in the time we live in, because it represents important anchor parties in what is often called the 'rooted period'. In the multicultural information society, changes are so rapid, so large and so unpredictable that they lead to an increase in insecurity. At the same time, the art is supposed to mirror the contemporary, make us wonder, provoke and ask questions about the prevailing perceptions. The aim of the Cultural Policy of the Swedish Cooperative Government is to raise, renew and revitalise Norwegian cultural life. Art and culture have a self-esteem and means a great deal to the development of the individual's personality and quality of life. At the same time, anchoring in the national culture is important for the development of the community. Art and culture help to give us visions and trigger creativity. It counteracts xenophobia and contributes to the security of others. The aim of cultural policy must be to enable everyone to experience high-quality art and culture, and to be able to participate in different cultural activities. As a small cultural and linguistic area, our identity, our language and our cultural heritage are also being challenged because of the increased globalisation. When we are about to shape the future, increased efforts on culture are crucial. Respect for tradition and history are part of our identity. Both education and learning must be of the highest quality possible. The objectives of cultural policy, as in love life, are ‘to a greater extent to a greater extent’, expressed by the poet. The best possible quality of child and family and education policies is essential, I would say a prerequisite for achieving good results in cultural policy. Children need to be motivated, get interests and learn history and language in order to acquire the values of art and cultural life. Safe families, good schools, a stimulating community environment and strong communities are a prerequisite for a successful cultural effort. The draft budget for the co-operation administration is a significant boost for the cultural field, and I am pleased with the broad support it has received in the Committee. The government proposes a stepping-up plan for cultural institutions and professional art, the popular and voluntary local culture and media area. Public cultural policy shall contribute to ensuring the vitality and scope of cultural life throughout the country. New forms of art and culture must have the same opportunities for public support as the more traditional forms of expression. And it's important to stimulate a good interaction between professional artists and amateurs. Voluntary organisations must be guaranteed good and stable economic conditions. Sports are among our largest non-governmental organisations, and both sport and top-notch sport must have good working conditions. An overall committee believes it is important to ensure that people have access to the best possible cultural offer. In the case of grants from various funds, as well as direct support to a number of individual projects and areas of activity, public, in liaison with non-governmental organisations and professional cultural workers, will create good cultural experiences and an active cultural life. An overall committee points out that festivals mean a lot to the development of local cultural life and to local identity. International participation contributes to bridge construction and cross-border dialogue. I would like to highlight in particular the significant efforts of non-governmental organisations and the local involvement in the cultural field. It's the thousand flowers that bloom. Relatively small appropriations trigger enormous local involvement. The majority of the Committee, all except the Centre Party, believes that there is a great need for more sports halls. Small grants in addition to the drugs may help to realise many such halls, including multi-use halls. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee has found room in the budget for the start-up appropriations for Europe's Blues Centre in Notodden, the Hamsun Centre in Northern Ireland and the Hedmark Theatre, and otherwise found room to support a number of small but important activities, such as: an increase to Dissimilis. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, supports the work done on the cultural school bag. The aim is to give children in primary school greater access to different cultural expressions and the ability to take an active part in cultural activities. It shall contribute to better contact and cooperation between schools, cultural institutions and artists. The focus on children and young people shall be on the escalation of cultural activity. The majority also emphasise the importance of seeing the cultural school system in the context of the provision of music and cultural education in municipalities. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party and the Centre Party, proposes to set up an establishment grant for newly educated students in the Bilderkunst, Ballett, Kunsthandwerk and Diplomudbildning in Komposition and Direktion. The scheme is initially introduced for all students who are eligible for funding from the Loan Fund and are associated with higher Norwegian educational institutions. And it will apply to the departure students in the autumn of 2002. This is in line with a proposal in the Sem Declaration, and the purpose of the Cooperative Government is that the grant scheme should apply to Norwegian students abroad as well. It is important to provide children and young people with opportunities to experience and develop understanding of contemporary art and aesthetic qualities. The Committee emphasises the promotion of collaborative projects between several institutions and between institutions and schools and kindergartens on the dissemination of visual arts and crafts. In this context, the majority, all except the Advancement Party, believe that the National Exhibitions play an important role in further developing the cultural school bag. The same majority believe that the Momentum contemporary art festival has well raised Norwegian visual art internationally, and will increase the appropriation for the festival's operation. An overall committee is pleased that the Festival Games in Bergen are receiving an increased grant in connection with the 50th anniversary of 2002. The majority of the Committee supports the work of the museum reform, including the development of the national museum network. This must be done in a way that ensures local involvement and professional competence. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party will underline the importance of maintaining a public broadcast with clear cultural obligations. The NRK is state-owned and licensed and has a special responsibility for maintaining a varied programme offer. The NRK shall continue to hold a licence as a dominant source of income. In addition, the co-operation management will assess other sources of income to provide the NRC with a better opportunity to meet new challenges. The economic problems in the NRK have been known for a long time, and the majority, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, consider it most correct in relation to the independent position the NRK has, that the overall framework conditions are thoroughly assessed by the Stortinge in connection with the media announcement to be dealt with in the Stortinge to spring. In view of the rules governing the relationship between NRK as an independent institution and the Stortinget, a majority of the government parties and the Progress Party consider that it would not be appropriate to intervene in the responsibility of the NRK Board. In addition, the Minister of Culture has announced a presentation to the Stortinget in the new year on the economic situation of the NRC. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party and the Centre, have joined the Government’s objective of maintaining diversity and breadth in the Norwegian press and supporting the press support system. The Sem Declaration states that the system of direct transfers of State to newspapers and publications with weak economic and competitiveness should be maintained at around the current level in order to contribute to the diversity and breadth of the Norwegian press. The budget provides a significant boost to the cultural area. However, VAT reform and high pension contributions have contributed to difficult conditions for cultural life. Increases in budgets for many institutions are disappearing due to increased costs. The Committee therefore asks the Ministry to identify the negative effects of the VAT reform and assess the possibility of compensation in the context of the revised budget or at a later date. The co-operation management budget has broad support and will provide a significant boost to culture. However, there are still major challenges in this area that the Government will address gradually. I also refer to the comments and suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e858	Sonja Irene Sjøli has fixed a few errors in the configuration, and it is listed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e861	A debate on the cultural budget often becomes a debate on numbers and individual projects. Ideally, it was to be one of Storting's most important debates. Cultural policy is not about a sector, but should permeate everything we do in all areas. And never before have we had such great opportunities to give professional artists job opportunities, but also to create an active, voluntary cultural life where the whole population can participate. It is individuals and groups who themselves must create good art and cultural life. As politicians, we have the primary responsibility to create the framework conditions that make it possible. Jens Stoltenberg has said well. He's told us not to dance people's lives, we're going to build the dance floor that they can use as a platform for their own forms. It is a good cultural budget that was presented by the then state council Ellen Horn. It is a budget that gives a strong boost to art and culture in 2002, and the increase was intended as part of an escalated commitment to culture until the 100th anniversary of its independence in 2005. The budget proposal meant an increase of SEK 4.1 billion and was one of the biggest increases in the cultural budget ever. It showed the willingness of the previous government to give priority to the cultural sector, to give a real boost to culture, and to contribute to the framework conditions that can provide creativity, innovation, quality of life and new growth. We hope that the new government will continue in the years to come. In this area, relatively small funds can mean enormous results in very many areas. The museum sector is well-managed in the budget with a sharp increase. An investment plan for national cultural buildings has been submitted which requires the use of half a billion dollars in the years 2002–2005, which is close to a triple of what has been granted in the last four years. Dance is a bet area – close to 5 million. kr more. In addition, the bulk of the population has provided a direct allocation to the Oslo Dance ensemble of 1 million. kr. Jazz is another area that's being strengthened, including nearly 5 million. kr – something that comes with very well, especially in the bet at the regional jazz centres. The operation is a third sector that has received a solid increase. Once again, the regional and district initiatives are being increased, which is right and fair at a time when we are going to spend a lot of money building up a new opera in Oslo. Voluntary organisations and children and young people are also important parts of the budget. I am particularly pleased that Ellen Horn provided a budget of 18 million. kr in the continuation of the cultural school bag. Film is an area that has grown rapidly in the last two years. In 2002, the film fund increased by 32 million. NOK – up to 217 million. kr. That means that we have even more opportunities to make good Norwegian movies. The last year has clearly shown that we have good production environments, we have good film artists in Norway who can make good films that also the audience wants to see. I believe that the reorganisation we have of the film sector will further contribute to that. And with the money that is granted, it will also be possible to realize all of these movies. It is not always possible to know in advance what will be a commercial success. Few Hollywood producers would probably be betting on a film like ‘High and Enthusiast’, but we see that it also makes great success internationally, not just in Norway. It is a very concrete example of the need for a public cultural policy and a public film policy if what turns out to be commercial successes is to be realised in retrospect. I am also very pleased that the bulk of the population has managed to agree on an establishment grant for art students. This is a proposal that was dealt with in the Stortinget in spring in connection with the notification of higher education. Then there was disagreement in the Stortinget. The Labour Party and the Advance Party supported the proposal for an establishment grant, while the government parties, together with SV, would have other solutions. Now we've been able to agree on an establishment grant that gives the arts students as good economic conditions as the traditional arts scholarship would give, and in addition, gives the newly-trained arts students an opportunity to use the money for establishment. It actually means – and it is strange that no more attention has been paid to it – that a newly educated art student, in the areas that are now receiving a scholarship, will receive about one. NOK 20 000 per year. the year the study is standardized as an establishment grant. That means that someone who has studied for four years will receive a grant of 80 000 kroner, and that's a considerable amount, even compared to other types of artist scholarships. The money can either be used to write down the study debt, or it can also be used to invest in a career or professional opportunity in the area in which you have been trained. For a newly educated ceramicist, it can often not be so easy to get commercial banks or others to go into an investment. There may be more profitable and gold-sided investment objects than there are. Then it can be very good to have such a scholarship to realize the possibility of a workshop or other things that are needed to create their own function. Just to correct, I think the committee leader had a slight delay: it is of course from the spring of 2002 that this scholarship should be introduced. Unfortunately, the new government was unable to fully follow up on the cultural budget from Ellen Horn. Most serious is cut in the press support. Ellen Horn had proposed a sharp increase in production aid. It was zeroed out with the new government. The only thing left was the compensation for the cancellation of the advertising scheme. I'm sorry. Strengthening production aid would have been important. We see in these days that another number. 2-Avis is about to disappear, now in Bodø. The diversity we have within the newspaper world and the press depends on good public order. It is not the readers who fail no. The two papers. That's not why they're having trouble getting along. It is because the advertising market fails no. The 2 newspapers, because you focus on the larger ones. If we want to have that breakdown of opinion, we want to have the diversity of newspapers, including the small locals, we need offensive public policies in this area. Therefore, it is sad that the Bondevik government’s first action in this area was to cut by 33 million. kr. The cuts in the cultural school bag were also regrettable. I hope that does not mean that the Government will place less emphasis on expanding the cultural school system, so that all children and young people can participate in and experience different forms of art and cultural activities at all stages. I think it's one of the greatest and most important promises we can make in the years to come to increase cultural awareness and awareness and commitment to cultural life of a whole new generation. It's also a shame that cutbacks were needed in the broadband bet for the public libraries. If we are to preserve the knowledge-based publicity of libraries, they must have the opportunity to renew and enter the digital age, and broadband deployment is important. That means that very many people can access the digital world through the public libraries, so that the whole population is involved. The state of the NRK has received a lot of attention lately. And it's true, as the committee leader says, that the NRK has a special corporate model that makes the board have its responsibilities. But it doesn't exempt us, as the owner of the NRK, from having a clear policy of what we want with a public broadcaster. We have a licence-funded business of over NOK 3 billion. We are the ones who provide that income through our decisions, so we have both a right and a duty to have clear goals for NRK as a public broadcaster. We're going to have a non-commercial TV and radio producer who produces with quality, which is a knowledge and cultural intermediary, and which has a good coverage across the country. The NRK has both a cultural and a media policy task. I am pleased that the Council of State has announced that we will be given a statement on the situation of the NRK in the new year, and look forward to that discussion. The Workers' Party is willing to also look at the economic arrangements around the NRK which can ensure a level playing field for the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e897	Many have claimed, and more will probably claim that the Progress Party has no cultural policy. But I'm going to reassure those who had to have that opinion, that we have a very conscious and clear policy on the subject, but we may not choose the easy way and give for all good purposes. We have a clear profile of what we're doing, which means that we're probably very unpopular in some circles within the established cultural life, and perhaps most ugliestly we're in the stronghold of culture, namely in the Ministry of Culture, precisely because we're focusing a critical searchlight on the cultural bureaucracy. But that doesn't mean we don't have any cultural policies, rather the opposite. The Progress Party clearly says that we should take care of our traditions and our cultural history. That means, of course, that we are going to take care of the culture and the traditional carriers that give the Norwegian people identity and point of reference to the roots of Norwegian society, while we want children and young people to get a good knowledge of our history and learn to cultivate their own creativity and creativity. On the basis of what is enshrined in the programme of the Progress Party, we in the Committee have tried to give priority to what will benefit as much as possible of taxpayers and which can strengthen and stimulate the voluntary teams and organisations. Because it is not only the cultural committee that grants money for culture; no, 14 other committees also grant money for culture. And a few years ago, cultural life in Norway got about. One and a half billion kroner, except for what our committee has to pay. In addition to this, what counties and municipalities contribute to it. So the price tag of today's cultural life in Norway is well over 12 billion kroner. And with respect to reporting, I would like to know how many of these billions actually go back to the taxpayers. We have a cultural bureaucracy in this country that any Russian cultural fan would envy us, and that will probably help to reduce the number of cultural crowns we had in mind, namely, to the neighbourhoods and communities – to the delight of all. As I said earlier, the Progress Party has a good cultural policy. And we dare to ask critical questions about what the money is spent on, and how it is used. That's what you should and should do, as long as it's not our money we spend, but the taxpayers. As I said, we have made our choices, in line with our programme. One of these choices concerns voluntary teams and organisations, which do a fantastic job for children, young people, adults and older people in the neighbourhoods and communities. Thanks to an enviable move against and a hard spirit, these teams and organizations survive. They keep children and young people away from the streets, and they activate older people, who in this way remain part of the resources that communities need to keep living in history. There is also a lot of good social policy in the work of voluntary teams and organisations. The progress team thinks that this is where the money comes in most of the fun and most of the good. We have therefore chosen to invest considerable resources in this item. I would also like to point out that the Progress Party has made a number of proposals in the Storting on a change in the distribution of profits from Norsk Tipping, so that a greater proportion is attributable to activities for children and young people in sports, voluntary teams and organisations. There are other important items on the cultural budget that the Progress Party will strengthen. I'd like to mention the sailors, because they're a piece of floating history that, like a lot of other things that the public is responsible for, expires without adequate funds being given for maintenance. The Contracting Party wants funds to be allocated to a fund for this purpose so that, irrespective of applications to the Ministry, sailing ships can use the funds for major repairs. We believe that it will give individual sailing ships a greater degree of predictability in the planning and operation of the ship. It is therefore very gratifying that the entire Committee has joined in the comment that underlines the need for such a fund and that it should come back to this. There are very many good measures in our diverse cultural life. But we still don't think it has any purpose to keep everyone alive through artificial breathing. We believe in a free and independent cultural life, where it is not the money or the scholarships that are driving the art. The Progress Party therefore wants to phase out the scheme of artists’ grants and grants of establishment, which is the new one in the 2002 budget. We all make our choices, and whoever chooses a life as an artist may have a dream of becoming a new Munch or a new Grieg. But the Progress Party is of the opinion that the choices you make are to take the consequences and not assume that you are paid in the lifetime of the state. The same is true of state tips. For the Advancement Party, it becomes extra strange when you now want to allocate such funds to a priest, so that he can work with his doctoral thesis. We ask questions about whether all the criteria for the award of state grants have been followed here. Even if we want to liquidate the state tips, we must at least be sure that the criteria are followed as long as the scheme exists. If there is room for such an award made this year — for a doctoral thesis — the award criteria should probably be reviewed. The promotion party distances itself from a cultural policy in which large sums are used for performance projects where the target population is only a few people, such as drug users. funds for new opera in Bjørvika. Finally, I would like to point out that the Right no longer wants to wind up the press stand. It's sad. As long as you give press support to some newspapers, you don't get a free and independent press. What happens when you give press support is that you keep living in newspapers that wouldn't otherwise be life-creating. The Progress Party believes in freedom and independence also in business, and not in the distortion of competition in the newspaper sector through press support. Finally, on behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to promote our proposals in the frame 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e933	Karin S. Woldseth has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e936	SV believes that art and culture must be a central part of tomorrow's green knowledge society. It is therefore necessary to create a good framework for the further development of artistic traditions and for innovative and untraditional cultural activities. Therefore, art must be given a much more important place in public space – through media policy and school and kindergarten policy and through the design of our common physical environment. Art and culture must be valued by their self-esteem, but art is not a value-neutral good. It also includes an increasingly commercialized reality. It has an important critical potential, but it can also promote excessive nationalism, individualism and driving culture – as much as it can promote democracy and solidarity. The cultural budget is by far the most widely mentioned, despite its modest size. And in spite of all praiseworthy words and celebrations that come to the fore in culture – a promise that truly monasteries, however, is difficult to achieve. Do we need three new frigates to the defense? Yes - we hear unisoned from all sides, except from SV. – We don't need three, we need five, maybe six – each for approx. 2.8 billion kroner, well above the cultural budget for a whole year. So in terms of frigates and defence purposes, we see that it's possible to prioritize, that it's possible to find money. That means that the money exists. It is the will to give political priority to cultural purposes that is lacking. There are no celebrations and praiseworthy words the culture is missing. The general political agreement on the use of the funds provided for us by the budget under the agreed framework is surprising to me. Looking away from the Progress Party, there is broad agreement on the vast majority of budget entries. It also appears that the same consensus exists as regards the need for significantly more money for cultural purposes. Against this background, one would believe that the willingness to prioritize culture permeated most of the parties and budget proposals, but the round of the year’s budget, in the same way as the rounds of previous years, shows that there is a great distance between the celebrations and the realities of the decisions taken. Nevertheless, this year’s budget has been given a real boost – with our full support. If it were up to us, the promise would be significantly greater. SV aims that during this period we should make the appropriations for art and culture 1 pst. by the State budget. This year it would have meant $5.5 billion, that is a good doubling of the budget. In our alternative budget for this year, we would have given Culture Norway $238 million. fresh crowns. We are alone in this proposal. And how much is it really? If we convert this into a motorway, we'll talk about approx. 2 km – once again a real boost for culture in exchange for a whiskers, and again we talk about priorities. In this context, it is important to point out that SV also sees the importance of focusing on culture in other framework areas. We're going to give $10 million. extra for cultural schools, we'll give $1,000 more per year. students per year; years. It's going to add up to 155 million. kr, so that students can visit out-of-school learning venues. This, if adopted, would have made it possible for the schools to take the students to several art and cultural institutions. This refers to willingness to prioritize, and would be a clear boost to real cultural growth. With such priorities, we could really give the cultural school bag content, and we could hang it on the back of many, many more. SV emphasises the need to ensure better opportunities for young people to develop and experience within their own cultural expressions. In many countries, SV has been an environmental card driver for young people, providing reasonable access to public transport. The places it has been tried have been an unconditional success. Similarly, we now want to introduce a test system of cultural maps in some counties, aimed at giving young people fairer and easier access to different types of cultural experiences. Locally, it is important that the cultural arenas function and are organized as intergenerational meeting places, between amateurs and professionals. Art terms and cultural activities are also important bridge builders across political groups, between different nations and ethnic groups. We see that what is experienced in individual arenas is alien and threatening, and often conflict-filled, in the arenas of culture and art often contributes to the opposite, namely mutual understanding, friendship, creativity and renewed insight and creativity. Art and culture play an important role as a buffer against commercial simplicity and superficiality. Close budgets and growing demands for self-income and profitability may threaten the diversity of cultural life and hinder innovation. The SV, with its increased commitment to culture, will ensure that artists and cultural workers are secured by increased allocations of greater arms and predictability in their work. In this context, we believe that the public sector – state, municipalities and county councils – has a specific responsibility to assign artists. Quality and diversity of our media are threatened by ownership concentration and commercialisation. For a small country such as Norway, it is particularly important culturally to maintain and further develop the general programming profile, not only in the NRC, but also in the commercial television and radio companies. The NRC must be ensured as an advertisement-free, licence-funded public broadcaster, and we believe that a local television support scheme should be put in place to ensure diversity. The local newspapers, No. The 2 newspapers, and the nationally meaningful newspapers, mean much to a living social debate, as meeting places for exchange of views and as providers of information on local and national cultural life. The major challenges ahead are to prevent higher levels of ownership, in particular between distribution and content. Such links between content and infrastructure will give tremendous power over the media field and can narrow diversity. In this context, it is important to increase press support and to show long-termity. SV also wants to support Norwegian film production both as an artistic expression and as a basis for industry. We also believe that there is a need for a stronger focus on regional film production. Here we've been general. In terms of detail and individual items, we will ask all cultural stakeholders to look at the SV's alternative budget. Living cultural environments throughout the country are an important prerequisite for viable districts. For SV, it is important to ensure the conditions for art and culture to be disseminated, experienced and created throughout the country. In this context, I believe that the government parties, together with the Workers' Party, are more than suggestive in the setting of recommending the move of the Drawing Language Theatre from Ål to Oslo, is hasty and incorrect. It's not that I don't know both the wishes and the good arguments for such a move of the theater. Similarly, of course, it is possible to argue for continued operation on Ål. The drawing language theatre is of all the people involved, so far, summed up as a success. This is mainly based on experience from the operation of the theater during the time it has held precisely on Ål. If it is possible to create a success in a trial period with Ål as the starting point, a presumption would be that it was possible to operate the theatre further with the same location. In our opinion, it would be more reasonable, as the case now stands, to extend the probationary period at Ål by one year, not least in the light of the highly debated evaluation reports available. What's good, though, is that all parties are positive that we need a deaf theater. So I want the drawing language theater to be happy for you.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e970	I will begin my speech in this debate by asking: Can Norway call itself a cultural nation? I am not asking this question because I think there is a simple answer to it. But I ask because I've often met it myself in different contexts, and most of all because it's an important self-searching question that we all, and not least we in this house, should ask ourselves. Can Norway call itself a cultural nation? Then it may be symptomatic that the Ministry of Culture budget is the absolute last trade budget debated this year, and it is then relatively late on a Friday. I know that this doesn't necessarily have anything to do with the priority of the field of culture, but it gives rise to some reflection anyway. Of course, the image of Norway as a cultural nation can be drawn in different ways. In the rest of the world, we like to tell you about Ibsen, Grieg, Munch and Hamsun, which we know many people have heard about. Yet I have experienced myself that people out there know much more about Ole Gunnar Solskjær and Tore André Flo than about the greatness of our past. And nothing wrong said about the football heroes. Then, of course, we proudly emphasize that we have both famous musicians, stage artists, symphony orchestras, ensembles, choirs and visual artists, who also today create art at a high international level. But there is also another picture – what we prefer not to convey, but which is about a country that has not yet got its own opera house and that needs to use urban development as a breakstone to decide to build it. It's about maybe the only nation in Europe, next to Albania, that doesn't have its own national professional choir. It is about a country that does not afford to maintain its cultural heritage but which leaves it confused, about a country with buildings in decline and about a country where cultural school teachers go on hunger pay, and where more and more municipalities are laying down their cultural administrations. Such a description of misery can easily be extended almost endlessly, and so in one of the richest countries in the world. There is then a prosaic phenomenon when a Minister for Culture would be pleased to see the majority of the main features of the draft cultural budget submitted by the Government. About this, it is expected that she will express herself. In any case, I would have said about it myself, and that even about one of the absolute best cultural budgets that have come in recent years, first presented by the government of Stoltenberg and later with a few changes continued by the Cooperation Government. This is good – and yet not enough for us to settle down. What does this tell you? Well, first of all, we in Norway are used to the fact that culture should not cost so much, at least not for the state and the public. Culture should preferably be almost free of charge. And it's said that in cultural life we get way too little money. I think the representative Giske said something about it, and so have I. Nor do we need to spend so much money. Isn't this about valuation? So I want to say that despite this little critical outburst, we've begun to move in the right direction. It's the most important thing. Several parties have suggested that culture should now be given a boost. I think it's starting to work. Let's hope we keep doing that. That is why we are pleased that the Cooperation Government finally reached an agreement with the Workers' Party on an agreement also in the Ministry of Culture's budget. I want to pay tribute to the Workers' Party's fraction for cleanliness and constructive recordings, so that we got to the finish line. Let me say a little bit about some particularly important areas of action. One of the most important areas of activity in the years to come will be the preservation and dissemination of the rich cultural heritage managed by the archival, library and museum institutions, called the ABM area. The use of the Internet has made it possible in a completely new way to connect these three areas in networks and eventually to establish an entrance to our entire common memory. The central government provided a big message about the ABM bet that was dealt with at the dump of the previous period. And it's great to see how the two succeeding governments have followed up the goals that the Storting has adopted both in terms of proposals for appropriations and in terms of launching the development process. I am convinced that few have concepts of what is hidden in shelves, folders and magazines around the country, and which are gradually made available in a new way. This almost opens up a new world in terms of knowledge dissemination and the restoration of contact with our cultural roots, at a time when we are at risk of losing this contact. So I know that there's been unrest in the various subsectors because you fear an unfortunate fusion of the three areas. The size has explicitly said that this is not going to happen. On the contrary, a parallel strengthening shall take place within all three areas of archives, libraries and museums. We know that there are huge aftermaths, not least in the field of archives and libraries, including the National Library, but also in the museum field. This is why a stepping-up plan has been drawn up for all three areas, which the Storting must follow up in the next few years. And there's going to be a joint body, ABM development, where a competence will be built on each of the three sub-areas. A very positive effect of the work on the ABM Communication is not least the cooperation that is about to take place across the ministerial boundaries, and in particular between institutions belonging to the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Culture. The process of combining the two governmental supervisory bodies in the library sector and inclusion in the ABM body is directly promising and provides the basis for the establishment of a strategic development body that can lead the important ABM process. The ABM process has also provided plans for the establishment of a new Norwegian art museum at Tullinløkka. Behind these plans lies the desire to have better and more consistent public access to the various art institutions in the area. Now that we see trends in cracking in this wall, it may be linked to the unrest surrounding the progress of such projects in Norway. I just want to say that this project is too good to be destroyed. It is to be hoped that those who are now going to put this into practice will soon be able to put forward more concrete plans. On our side, we believe that this should be fully possible, despite the budget cuts we have made in the last budgetary agreement. And as I move within this area: a very large number of people were hired to designate the government support for mobile library services, mainly book buses, and library buildings were removed. The Christian People's Party voted against this. What we now see, among other things: as a result of the disappearance of the designation, the number of mailboxes goes down. In the budget agreement, we have managed to put a little patch on the wound. Then there's going to be a little entry of 1.5 million. kr, from which funds can be requested for mobile library services. Another very positive result of the budgetary agreement between the cooperation parties and the Workers' Party is the restoration of the arts scholarship, as other speakers before me have mentioned. I say it this way because the Christian People's Party voted against the removal of the arts scholarship in 1997, and the party has later programmed that they will reintroduce it. Now it's happened, but now it's called the start-up scholarship. It has a slightly different design than the previous scheme had, by paying the entire grant only after the study was completed, while it was previously paid in the course of the study. However, it will still be the difference between the usual degree programme and the original degree programme of the arts of 66,6 p.m. and may be used either for the conversion of student loans or for establishment in the profession. One of the most exciting areas before the budget was presented in the autumn was press support. The Christian People's Party is pleased that, despite the relatively significant cut we had to endure in the first round of the budget negotiations, we have nevertheless maintained what we have said that the aim is to continue the press support at about the same level as last year. We are convinced that the newspapers and the written word represent one of the most important values in the Norwegian society that we want to take care of. In such a limited market as the Norwegian one, it will be absolutely necessary to maintain press support at this level for the sake of democracy, freedom of expression and diversity. The newspapers are an important cultural and valuer, both in the community and at national level. We're also pleased that there's found room for a strengthening of the film allocation. Despite the expansion of TV, film has not become a less important medium. We also see that several Norwegian films have been successful lately. The reorganisation carried out in this area hopes that we will help further strengthen Norwegian films in competition with a highly commercialised market. What we need are good, value-conscious filmmakers who can form counter-cultures and contribute to awareness-raising in the use of Norwegian languages, and above all bets on films that can take up the fight against what seems rousing and destructive and that help to harm children and young people's development and also break down family relationships. I see that speaking time is almost over. I would have liked to know that I could say something about a few more things, so I would like to inform you that I will come back with a short post. There are, as we know, a lot of investigations in the field of culture, investigations that we will come back to in the coming period. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1010	The president wants to remind us of speaking time. It is Friday afternoon, and we should not go on longer than is strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1013	I would first like to express my joy at the economic promise that was in the cultural budget of the government of Stoltenberg. The additional proposal from the Cooperation Government contains changes which, in the opinion of the Centre Party, are positive, but which, unfortunately, have been changed during the Committee's proceedings. The size that the owner has has a special responsibility for the NRK, but the NRK as a licence-funded, advertising-free public broadcaster also has a great responsibility. The NRK’s economic situation and proposals for saving measures have created debate and strong engagement throughout the country. The central part is, is and should be, concerned that the NRK should have a strong position in the media policy image. As early as the autumn of 1996, the Stortinget decided to increase its licence in addition to its proposal, it was a clear commitment that the district office development plans should be passed on and completed. The size has, in several circumstances, been affected by the fact that the NRK has failed to fulfil its obligations regarding the full development of district offices. And during the last year's budgetary procedure, a majority said that major changes in the regional policy profile need political treatment. This is a clear political direction, which I have argued the NRK has taken note of. I would also like to remind you of the Sponheim State Council's answer in Question Time on 21 November 2001, which confirmed the establishment of own television broadcasts in Nordland and Østfold from 2002 – the last two counties to be realized before the expansion plans are realized. And with our own broadcasts, of course, there's a shipment in the same line with what one has in the other district offices – not reprisals. That the NRK's board proposes merging the existing office, I find alarming. But when that is said, I would say that the Storting that owns must also be aware of its financial responsibility. The centre party acknowledges that the economic framework for the NRK is difficult. We want a strong public programming programme, to create Norwegian-produced programmes, to produce children's programmes, and, as I said, we want our own district offices. If the NRK is to meet the requirements we have seen, we have to show willingness to improve the economic framework for the NRK. I have recorded that the Council of State has agreed to give the Storting a ruling on the NRK's situation. The centre party has submitted a proposal, proposal No. 26, which seeks to improve the economic situation of the NRK by giving NRK the right to deduct VAT and thus equivalent NRK to the other commercial TV and radio channels. That proposal will not have a number, and that is why I am drawing proposal No. 26. This is a warning, and I am already notifying you that this is what I will come back to in connection with the council's announcement of the NRK in the new year. The central party thinks it's urgent to establish a common national knowledge base. We will come back to this during the treatment of Document No. 8:23 for 2001-2002. But it's important to emphasize that in an officially funded knowledge base, the goals are to be met, both in terms of novelty and bookkeeping. Both the Norwegian Goal Team and the Norwegian Samlag make a great effort to preserve their identity. Not least this is the case in the Norwegian language, which comes out mostly in one publisher, namely the Norwegian Society. In our period of internationalisation and globalisation, the Norwegian language is generally under strong pressure. According to studies, Norwegian children read poorly, while Finns are best in the Nordic region. Norway spends more money than Finland spends on education. In Finland, however, an average of 317 kroner per person is used. built-in library operations, while Norway spends NOK 203. Finland has a loan of 19.3 books per year. per capita The number of books published in Norway is 5.21 per year, while the number of books published in Norway is 5.21 per year. per capita years. Increased resources for public libraries can be a very cheap way to improve reading skills for children and young people. There is a great deal of interest and commitment to local and regional cultural buildings. Not everyone gets funds. In total, there is an application amount corresponding to 130 million. kr that has not been granted. I will come back to that in a later article. Then, on behalf of the Center Party, I will put forward the proposals that we are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1036	Eli Sollied Upperaas has drawn up the proposals she referred to, and she has drawn up proposal No. 26. This should be treated later.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1039	The left is pleased with the broad political consensus to bet on culture, whether there is a slightly different view of where more effort should be made. The government of Stoltenberg introduced new funds for culture. The co-operation administration retained this commitment — and it has survived the Committee’s proceedings. Only the Progress Party has a special and quite negative relationship with what the public should contribute to ensuring cultural growth, with all the positive and important it means for individuals, communities and for the nation. The left believes that culture will be a key to the further development of a quality society, with higher standards for the concept of community that we call formation. Culture has a self-esteem, but in the future it will also increasingly be a determining factor for economic development and economic development. We support Government's emphasis on voluntary organisations, and we are concerned that new forms of art and culture are given the same opportunity as traditional cultural expressions and institutions are given. As you know, the left is not represented in the committee, and I'm just going to take a few details from the many who have been dealt with in the present setting. I also have two things that go to Statsbygg and the Ministry of Children and Family, but I choose to bring them here, because they have a clear cultural policy angle. As the City Council for Culture and Education in Oslo, I had the joy of working with the new cultural centre on the Western Web, among others. with a Peace Prize Centre, a new main library for Oslo and a new cinema center. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advancement Party, underlines the country's commitment to this project. The state has not always been a good landowner in Oslo, nor has it been a good actor to develop Oslo as a capital. On the Statsbygg plot, the state has a unique opportunity, in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, to create a cultural house for Oslo. What we combine is a large main library, a Stenersen museum and a cinema center – all that a capital needs to have in a cultural house. Then we do not need more debate on what this land should contain. You should keep the thread you have now actually established – where the municipality has put the money on the table, and where State Building has put the plans on the table – and then create a success project where the Municipality of Oslo and the State can join in developing the capital as a city of culture. I also want Oslo Cinematographers to have the opportunity to go into that project, which would make them the driving force in Kino-Norway that they deserve to be. So some comments about the childhood and youth culture. In the context of the grant to the children’s and youth organisations, the Committee has written a great deal on the concept of prevention. They have also submitted a note on young rape offenders. I think it's important from this platform to note that the culture of children and youth has its own value, as the culture of adults has. It's actually not that we're building opera because adults aren't going to drink or beat each other that night, but actually to have a cultural experience. I think it is important to realise that the children's and youth organisations are a basic driver and have a basic management role for the culture of children and young people, not just for prevention. So a little comment on a majority comment that I'm very pleased with, and it's about the Drawing Language Theatre. When we're going to establish the Sign Language Theater, I think it's important that one gets the opportunity to place what the environment wants. It had not been relevant in any other environment that we had not cared about where those who are driving forces behind it all, wanted the location to be. I hope that the Council of State reads that note well, and that she listens well to where the sign language organisations want to have their theater located.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1056	The Workers' Party will provide everyone with the opportunity to experience culture, participation and expression. Art shall have enough space to act as a dynamic force in society. Through cultural policy, we will ensure freedom of expression, diversity of opinion and meeting places. Cultural policy must be based on the diversity of our society. Knowing and accepting one's own culture is necessary to respect and understand others'. All the ability to know and develop their culture, heritage and language is a prerequisite for multicultural coexistence. Art has always evolved through impulses from other countries and has helped to increase our understanding of other cultures. We will support in the joint arenas where practitioners and audiences with different cultural backgrounds can meet. Culture is something that is created and managed, not just consumed. Cultural policy shall cover both professional art and amateur life. A wide range of amateur activities and teaching in aesthetic subjects at school are a prerequisite for broader recruitment to professional art life and for recruiting a future committed audience. High quality professional art is important to inspire self-participation and to make cultural offerings more attractive and accessible. The Workers' Party will support actions creating joint arenas and collaborative projects for professional artists and amateurs. It is important to create cultural meeting places. There have been strong reactions from the NRK, among others. shall merge the district offices of Hedmark and Uppland. I want to warn against such a development. District broadcasts are identity-creating and important cultural carriers in their districts. This should be taken seriously by the Council of State. We will pay particular attention to ensuring amateur organisations for children and young people good conditions for their work. Hedmark Theatre is a well-run theatre that has had a joyful audience search. Hedmark Theatre is the only domestic theatre that, after a decentralised model, plays theatre throughout the county. Hedmark has a very good experience with collaboration between professional artists and amateurs. So it's with pride that I want to use my own state as an example of the creativity and creativity that lives in each of us, only a framework that allows us to use these abilities in municipalities, branches and neighbourhoods. When Folldal Gruver was closed down, the idea was to preserve history and mining culture for the later days. The Folldal Gruver Foundation was established on its own initiative. The fact that the majority of the Committee on Culture does not find this interesting may suggest that there is still a distinction between so-called fine culture and labour and industrial culture. Fortunately, the nozzle has been able to erase some of these dividing lines. Today, the Prussian is all-round. The life, the wear and tear and the great differences among the people that the Prussian wrote about are good entertainment today. I hope that more than me will work to allow the state – i.e. we, all of us – to take a stronger financial boost so that the Prøysen House in Ringsacher can have a better financial framework. Again examples from my county, Hedmark: The Women's Museum in Kongsvinger, Klevfos Industrial Museum, the Folldal Gruver Foundation, the Festival Games in Elverum, the hamlet around, also in Trysil, The Ringsake Opera, cultural evenings with the poetry of Eidskog's own poems, Hans Børli, in Eidskog, can be proof that the thousands of flowers bloom in our long country. This is a wanted and wanted policy on the part of the Workers' Party, and we have followed this with an increase in the cultural budget. I'm proud of this. I hope that the Bondevik II government does not change this objective. And finally, I dare to venture the claim that a rich cultural offer can cure loneliness and gruff. In this way, we might be able to save expenses for medicine. Perhaps some of the funds in the health and social budget should be transferred to the cultural budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1077	The president wondered if there might be some culture in this room as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1081	It sometimes strikes a person that it is good that there is no postage on the “Christmas Cards” home. It had become an expensive pleasure for the treasury. When we talk about the objectives of cultural policy, we tend to place particular emphasis on identity and quality of life. These are, of course, key objectives, but cultural policy also has the potential to be an important driver in shaping a more creative and creative society. In the debate on education on Tuesday, the representative Reikvam took from a quote from Albert Einstein, and I quote from his post: «Knowledge is nothing – imagination is everything. It's about knowledge passing the imagination. Only then is knowledge worth something”. The quotation describes an important link between knowledge and creativity. The claim is that these two things are mutually dependent. A comprehensive policy for the development of the creative society is therefore not only a policy for knowledge but also a policy for imagination. Our time is characterized by great and rapid shifts within almost all areas of life. That's why our ability to change and innovation is more important than ever. The ability to surprise requires the imagination and creativity to be provoked and trained. The use of imagination is today about the only thing we don't go on a course to learn. Then it's all the more important to have a living cultural life that gives imagination and creativity the necessary armstroke. Modern society therefore requires a cultural policy that will actively use art as a tool for innovation. This implies a cultural policy with high demands for both capacity and quality. Our ambitions for cultural policy must not hold back the level of ambition in other areas such as technology or science, but rather be seen in connection with them. This, in turn, is about the necessary economy, and it is with great satisfaction Right that this year's budget provides a very significant boost for the cultural area. This signals that the cooperation parties will continue a policy in which we are engaged in strong public efforts. For a small country with limited audience concentration and relatively few private contributors, public contributions are necessary. However, in a small country with small trade unions and close proximity between the provider and the recipient, it is particularly important to be vigilant in relation to equalization and trivialisation. Being politically correct and drawing public contributors' homage can quickly become a scourge that indirectly governs cultural actors' choices. This can easily lead to everyday emulation and undermine the tension in cultural projects. In other words, we must be careful not to pursue a policy where a unilateral focus on funding undermines the ability of cultural life to surprise and renew. It must therefore be an important task in the future to facilitate more contributors to cultural life. Even with further increases in public spending, Norway will be able to raise more private capital into cultural life. The current year's budget is mainly based on the Stoltenberg government. Here we find few leads in relation to actively building bridges to other sectors, or to facilitating alternative funding. A new cultural policy emerged from the Co-operation Government must more clearly address these challenges. This may include fiscal intervention, or fund-based financial instruments where private individuals are also involved. For example, this could be directed towards food funds, the aim of which is to launch cultural-related activities with potential commercial potential. Such funds may also pave the way for the creation of new meeting places where cultural environments can become more active participants in order to increase the volume of Norwegian-produced online content, a very important area in the coming years. It is with great joy that we can see that the cultural budget strengthens the commitment to film. The film is one of the most important artistic expressions of our time. In addition to reaching a large audience, the film also has important features in relation to the bridge construction we want in other contexts. The film builds bridges between many species of art. Music, image and theatre are included and provide incentives for cooperation in other constellations. The desire for a more dynamic and creative cultural life also suggests that our artists work more in international contexts; here too the film goes ahead. We've seen this in the Nordic area, or maybe especially in the Scandinavian area. The experience of the film industry will be of utmost importance on the day we take seriously the development of a network content development policy, where, for example, challenges such as the development of three-dimensional illusions will meet us. This year's budget continues to support the press at about the same level as last year. The government parties are based here on the Sem Declaration. It is clearly stated that direct government transfers to the press should be continued with a view to maintaining the diversity and breadth of Norwegian newspapers. In the spring we will have a debate on this in connection with the media communication. In addition to discussing the fundamental issues, we also need to have a thorough discussion of the device of the press support, and how the Norwegian press should be seen today in relation to the overall media image. In the tearing technological development we are in, it becomes important to keep an eye on the whole and to see the development of the various media in the context. The discussions that have subsequently taken place about taxes in relation to the printed word and about NRK’s district offices appear to be fragmented and not suitable for outlining the further course of media policy. If we raise our eyes and aim for an objective to be pursued, it is not the question of whether NRK has district offices in absolutely all counties, or whether Norway is still a country full of non-VAT newspapers, or with VAT, which is crucial. The important thing is that in our country we have the power to follow developments so that we have Norwegian-based media that deliver news and other relevant substance in Norwegian to Norwegian users, in short that in the future we have a media everyday in which the Nordics of the future feel at home, media that they actively use, and that gives them the best possible content, whether it be newspapers, networks or other media – what do I know? This demands that we offensively seek a good policy anchored in tomorrow's technological reality, not that we go to the barricades to defend schemes that are about to expire. This year's budget gives cultural life a very good and urgent boost. But cultural policy is more than money. We also have to work out new ways to go, and in the time to come, we have great challenges in finding ways for cultural policy that can ensure that we are not only at the height of the demands of time, but also in the forefront. With the investment that has been made in Norwegian cultural life for many years, we have the best starting point. Then we just have to make sure that time doesn't run away from us, but that we're able to stick with the turns. So to some items that have been mentioned and that I also want to comment on. Folldal Gruver was mentioned by the representative Fallen, and I agree with her that it is an exciting measure. But we have a lot of industrial memories – I think that’s what it’s called – and it’s important to put them into a big context, so that the intentions of seeing industrial development in a larger context are taken into account. I could also say a lot about the cultural school bag. It's an amazingly exciting bet, which when Ellen Horn presented it earlier, was accompanied by great ambitions. The problem is that neither the Workers' Party nor, in particular, the current government has the power to follow it up with the means to do so if there is to be any turn on it. There is a huge need, a lot of schools and a lot of opportunities, but it also requires very considerable resources, and I think it will be important to see the ‘school bag’ also in conjunction with other schemes if we are to achieve the goals that I think we all agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1124	For 12 years I was a cultural politician in the municipality of Drammen. In these years, I've had a lot of trouble with the Cultural Policy of the Advancement Party. The viewpoints and criticisms that often come are: when the Progress Party is not a member of large public funds on the cultural budgets, the party is a cultural enemy. It's something I've dressed in my head above, because when I think of culture, I think of it as something that doesn't depend on public appropriations. Let me give you an example: this summer I visited Denmark. Somewhere in Denmark there is a beautiful old frigate, frigate «Jylland». It's cleaned up for private funds, 120 million. Danish Krone, and operated exclusively privately, a maritime cultural memory made available to the public through private contributions and public revenues. I had some fun looking up in some lexicons to figure out the definition of culture. CAPLEX says that culture is the cultivation of soil, forest, plants or water. It may also be the reindeer cultivation of organisms, e.g. bacteria. But it's not the Storting's "bacterium committee" that meets in Stortingen today, so it can't be the right definition in this context. It also says that culture can be refinement and formation. Perhaps the definition of processing and development, especially in relation to the material and spiritual development of individuals and society, is most relevant to today's debate. But the encyclopaedia does not say that it has to be done over public budgets. I also worked up in the Great Norwegian Lexicon, and got along with me a similar ramifications of soil culture, forest culture, culture plants, fish, shellfish and bacteria. In addition, physical culture with care of body and soul, healthy lifestyles, body exercises, culture, natural people, art, spiritual work, social activities, etc. The dictionary also mentioned traffic culture, drinking culture, greed culture and jape culture. But not in the Great Norwegian Lexicon either was it a single word that this should have something to do with large public funds. So the conclusion must be clear: the fact that you're not a member of huge public funds for culture is not the same thing as being a cultural enemy. We in the Progress Party believe that, as a general rule, a large proportion of it should be per. Today, when cultural appropriations are used over public budgets, they are returned to the individual so that they can decide for themselves which cultural measures they wish to use. Of course, we need to keep some major, important national institutions to take care of our common heritage as a nation, and we should be able to contribute to voluntary teams and organisations and child and youth work, but as extensive as the appropriations and cultural bureaucracy have become are unnecessary. We use enormous resources to allocate the funds allocated to public cultural budgets. This is money, which, if people could keep them themselves, could go to practical cultural actions and experiences for the individual, and not to bureaucracy. So this is the fundamental view of the Advance Party in cultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1143	It could be tempting to start with the last post that was made. I was going to tell you a little bit about how I experienced art and culture in my childhood. In my childhood home, there was a lot of lexicons, and of course it's an important cultural carrier. But I think that if I had turned up in lexicons, for example. on the definition of good health, I don't think I had received any answer that good health was a large public budget, but I think that the realization of good health may depend on that either. Maybe it's a little bit funny looking for a definition in a lexicon on what you're willing to prioritize. When I grew up, the contact I had was with art in my childhood home, mostly the one I got through the NRK and through the books. And what did that mean? Well, that meant that I was very happy with books and knew a lot about that kind of art. The culture and art I got through the NRK, I also got a good relationship with, but it was a rather distant relationship. It was something that others were doing. It was a little bit far away, a little far away, a little bit up, where we actually didn't think we could have any things to contribute, because we hadn't been able to try it out. Then I was in the spring in a cultural school. There I saw a lot of kids who had been allowed to try out a lot of cultural expressions – both music, theatre and different kinds of creative art – and they were capable. They were concerned with artists and artistic expressions that were actually completely on the world level, and at the same time they were not afraid of seagoing to throw themselves on the outside and try it at their beginner level. They had the idea that maybe I too can do something good, I might be very good, but at least I can do this, and this makes my life rich. This taught me a lot. That means that we actually have to make the opportunity to participate in art and culture much more accessible to everyone. It makes life rich, and it must not be accessible only to those who are rich. It can actually live a Wenche Foss or a Mozart even in children of parents who are so poor that they have to go to social assistance. I think that's a serious cross of thought, not only because you're concerned that these maybe distinguished artists will be allowed to come forward, but also for all the good experiences, the other types of good seascapes, the other types of creativity and talents that can live in these children, as it is today, are not allowed to come forward because we've created a society where it even costs money to play with other children. It costs money to participate in sports, it costs money to be in the Corps, it costs money to play an instrument, and it costs money to participate in children's theaters. Almost nothing's free. The wallet must be in front of you, otherwise you must be out of your sight. And it actually has huge consequences for children growing up in economic poverty. Because the norm in Norway is wealth, growing up in poverty becomes extremely exclusive. Now, in a way, the market has got some sort of iron grip around people's marine image, and especially for children and young people. You're what you buy. If you don't buy anything, you're nothing. Fafo has just presented a report on what we can do for children growing up in economic poverty. They point in particular to the important common arenas where children can participate and be allowed to develop all their creativity and skills and all their languages, because children learn with the whole body, with all their senses. And I fully agree with the representative of Skei Grande here instead, that this is not just about prevention, this is actually about the good life, and that all people should have the opportunity for the good life. And then we have to make sure that music schools, cultural schools and the unitary school that everyone is going to attend also have room for this. That's why I want to challenge the Minister of Culture and the Culture Committee to be involved when we're discussing local economy, so that it gives room for what's so vital.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1156	That part of the comitology setting, which relates to the cultural area, contains a number of comments, partly from a collective committee, partly from a multiplicity and partly from different minorities. However, after a comprehensive review of this setting, the strongest impression is that a broad political debate is taking place on the main lines of cultural policy. This must be a good starting point for a positive further development of this area in the years to come. A great deal of work in the years to come will follow up the archiving message about archives, libraries and museums from the previous Bondevik government. The message, and the upgrade of this textbox was extended to include a large connection to the batch manager a year ago. Furthermore, it is gratifying that a joint coordination and development body for the ABM field has been so well received. The clarifications the committee brings with it are entirely in line with the thoughts we have in the department. In consultation with the Minister of Education and Research, I will soon assess whether ABM development should also take responsibility for the school library. The 2002 budget provides for a strengthening of the museum field. Norwegian museum development is well underway with the extensive, but absolutely necessary, structural reforms within the Norwegian museum landscape. In the ABM message, it was also suggested to co-organise six art institutions in the Oslo area, something the Stortinget joined. The vision for the project is to develop a dissemination arena that includes a wide range of art forms, not least new cross-border forms of expression. In the budget proposal, the project was followed up by the National Art Museum with a pledge of 6 million. kr. I am not happy that the majority in the Committee has reduced the budget for the project by 2 million. kr, but I still see from the comments from the majority in the Committee that they provide strong verbal support for the project. I interpret this as a clear message that the majority wants the Government to follow up on the intention of the new art museum. We will do the same, and we will clarify it in the 2003 budget proposal. Of other important individual projects, I will also mention the National Library, which needs to improve the physical environment of the Oslo department. At the same time, you need to focus on how to find solutions that give good conditions for additions and users. There are currently many distribution projects in the field of culture, including: in music, performing arts and literature. On the one hand, there are distributions made by the Ministry, and on the other there is a project by the Norwegian Cultural Council and other professional bodies. These will be important premises for future cultural policy, and I would like to propose a comprehensive discussion in the form of a cultural communication. Defendant management of the many distributions means that the Ministry will benefit from the coming year to prepare such a notification for submission to the Stortinget early in 2003. The economic situation in the NRC and the measures taken by the LIT in the NRK have recently created a major debate both here in the United Kingdom today and in the media. Several batches have gone a long way in arguing for detailed management of NRK operations. I want to underline here what must be the principle starting point: The government believes it is very important to maintain a non-commercial public broadcaster with a wide range of programs for the whole people. As a public broadcaster, the NRK has a responsibility to provide both broad and narrow groups with a good range of broadcasting services. How the NRK should solve this task must have great freedom to decide for itself. The measure has decided that the NRK should be organised as a limited liability company. The management board of the company must then also have the freedom needed to operate the company in a professional and efficient manner. I assume that the NRK will carry out the savings that are needed, without prejudicing the tasks of public broadcasting. In the light of the debate that is now under way, I think it is important that the Storting should be able to discuss this on a more fundamental basis than a budget debate allows. I will therefore come back to Stortinget in the New Year with an oral briefing on the NRK, and I will – if Stortinget will – do so in February. I have noticed that the majority in the committee has reduced the contribution to local cultural buildings by 5.4 million. kr. These buildings create a lot of local activity and have a lot to say for the communities. It is unfortunate, therefore, that the proposal for a supplement is being reduced and that the waiting time for the supplement is increasing. Among other things, this is to facilitate local cultural activities for children and young people, a target group on which the Committee in several other contexts is making a significant contribution. I want to, despite some changes I've pointed out, summarise: this is a field that turns out to be a big deal. The Bondevik government did not introduce many changes to the Stoltenberg government's proposal, nor has the Committee made any major changes. This contributes to a good climate of cooperation on the cultural front. That's good, because it ignites both art and culture, and it makes work easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1197	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1200	I have noticed what the Council of State said about her coming back in the New Year with a briefing on the NRK's situation. But I would nevertheless remind you of the following remark: ‘... NRK district offices and district shipments are a very important and highly valued part of the NRK’s business. In particular, for reasons of the legitimacy of the NRK as a public broadcaster, it is therefore necessary not to weaken district broadcasts throughout the country.’» This is a quote from the 2001 budgetary position, in which the Christian People's Party was a strong player in relation to this particular remark. I wonder if the Council of State's response Haugland still stands for this view. And does the Council of State, which is also the General Assembly of the NRK, think that cut off in posts at all district offices and little or no job reduction on Marienlyst strengthens the NRK's district profile?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1212	On the question of the Christian People's Party is still behind this remark that the representative read, I can answer a clear yes. When it comes to reorganisation in the NRC, both the broadcaster and the programme director have said that there is something that the NRC has seen going on independently, in fact, of the debate on the size of the NRC. I also read letters from the NRK page saying that one of the reasons why they do this is that they want to improve the district program. Therefore, I think there must be a demand for the NRK when they reorganize their work, that they have authority to do so. But if it goes very far beyond the programme provision in the districts, both the General Assembly and the Stortinget will react to it. I also think the NRK is aware of that. We have to give the board of directors of the NRK and the broadcaster a great deal of freedom from the fact that the NRK has become a corporation; they have been given freedom through this reorganisation to set up the economy in such a way that the listeners and viewers get the best possible result from the resources of the NRK. – So I can say yes that we are behind such a formulation today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1221	A majority of the Committee is requested by the Ministry to ensure that the interests of Norwegian musicians are strengthened by the right to vote of their respective organisations in the various fund boards, councils and selections. Now we know that there will soon be a new board of the Fund for Performing Artists, and we know that the Norwegian Association of Artists is established. A majority of the Committee is asked by the Ministry to ensure that this organisation is treated in the same way as the Music Society and GramArt with regard to the right to vote of the Management Board. My question to the Council of State will therefore be: Will the Council of State ensure that the majority opinion of the Committee is followed and that the Norwegian Association of Artists is given the right to vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1232	The answer to the question is, of course, yes. I have to stick to the plural position of the committee, but if one asks me if I like it, the answer is no!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1239	I have a question for the Council of State. Under the hood. 321 item 1, operating costs, a new state grant to Ragnar Andersen has been proposed by the Government. This award is the Socialist Left Party, and we have taken out NOK 300,000 from this entry. This allocation has also been discussed in the media. What are the reasons for Ragnar Andersen’s having received a State scholarship? In our view, many others have shown a social exposure that is inclusive of most, and not exclusive.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1247	I have agreed that Ragnar Andersen will receive a state grant for three years. I'm not going to go into the details of the foundation for that, but what I can do about it is that I'm very safe on the professional basis to give it the scholarship. I am aware that it has a lot of weight. I have both responded to it in the media and debated it. I'm not going to go into a debate about a deal or a deal here, but there's no doubt that the professional foundation is strong for the candidate to receive the state scholarship. I have chosen to give the state scholarship for three years to finish a doctoral thesis in a field where there is very little work going on – and the theological environments have actually wanted more work in this field. I can also mention that there are strong forces behind the application, also of a professional nature. To enlist the College of Bishops here, the application is supported by both Bishop Bondevik and Bishop Steinholt. Thus, perhaps the theological width of the supported will also be satisfactory, even for SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1256	The centre party disagreed with the majority of the population who incorporated the earmarked grant for the bookboxes into the income system in the 2000 budget. The budget was at least 19 million. kr. With an allocation of that size, the book buses have been able to provide an important offer to people who otherwise do not have easy access to library services. This year, the bulk of the population — happily — reintroduces the earmarked contribution to book buses, but with the 1.5 million puzzles. kr! My question to the Council of State will then be: How many mailboxes will receive grants, and how much will be paid to the individual mailbox in 2002? I will then resist the temptation to ask how many kilometres the council believes the book buses will be able to run with the frames proposed! A lot of people can't do it, but I can figure it out on my own!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1268	Yes, this was an equation with many unknowns! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1273	I'm not going to figure out any kilometers or other things, but I have to agree with Hagas' representative and wonder about the 1.5 million. kr that came in again, since the lot as a ‘pusher’ to get it into the State budget has before entered into the framework. It's not as easy to tell which one and a half million. kr must be added. We have to go into a dialogue with those who drive the mailboxes to get an answer to that. I'm not going to give a clear answer to what the ministry's recommendation will be, but one thought might be that one can support it. Several of these buses are old, and one needs new buses in some areas - one might think that one can be interested in replacing one of the old buses with another. I have to take this into account, and I am absolutely sure that these money will be a pleasure for the mailboxes and for the users. Rather, we get back to how we can best do it, so that we can use the money for the sake of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1282	First, a comment on the NRK discussion. The Council of State says that she still stands firm in the Christian People's Party in a minority comment on the budget last year, that district missions should be strengthened, not weakened. There's no doubt that what's happening now is a manning reduction. It may well be that according to the board's judgements, it is a right priority, but the Council of State should at least be able to admit that it is contrary to what her party agreed to write last year. So for the budget deal. It's true, as the Council of State says, that there were no major changes that came with the Bondevik government in the cultural budget. What came was essentially some cut: 33 million. NOK 6 million on the press stand. kr on the cultural school bag, and then some minor changes. We were able to reach an agreement in the committee despite the fact that the Workers' Party had 54 million. kr more in the cultural framework than the parties to the government had. And that was good, because I think the alternative – agreement with the Progress Party and the government parties – would have been worse. My question to the Council of State is: does she also see it in the years to come so that it is far better for the Government to find solutions with the Labour Party in the Committee, and that the Progress Party is a poorly suited party to reach agreement in this area? Then I also have a question in connection with the discussion around the Cultural Council. It was a dissatisfaction in the Cultural Council that the Ministry of Culture under Ellen Horn had some opinions about how that money was to be used. We solved that in the committee by partly withdrawing the money from the Council of Culture and granting it directly to the Oslo Dance ensemble. I registered that there has also been some dissatisfaction in the Culture Council. I want to send that signal – and ask the Council of State to pass it on – that the cultural policy of the Council of Culture should be part of the overall cultural policy of the Government and of the Stortinge; it should not be the cultural policy of the Government and the Stortinge which are part of the Council of Culture's priorities. Can the Council confirm that she will pass it on to the appropriate person?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1293	It was a leading question I got from the representative Giske. But it's a fact – we've heard of contributions from the Progress Party in the Chamber today – that the Progress Party has a different cultural policy than the other parties. So it'll be easier for the government party, I think, to become a little bit more about the priorities with the Labour Party, or with SV, than with the Progress Party. When it comes to cultural policy, we are closer to each other than the Progress Party. So I've answered that. When it comes to the Council of Culture, the Committee has resolved this. But I must admit, of course, that I preferred the solution proposed by the Government in the supplementary proposal. There must be a link between the areas of responsibility that the Stortinget and the Government give the Council of Culture, and then we have to trust that the Council of Culture actually manages their responsibilities. We have to have the same confidence that the NRK Board manages the responsibility they get from collapse and government. We would like to give a signal – and so did we from the Government's side when there was a brittle allocation of different things – and I think the Council of Culture would have listened to the signals that came. It might have been better than trying to direct the Cultural Council when it comes to what to do. Why in all the world are we going to have a Cultural Council, if the Government is going to direct who they're going to give money to? Then we can do the job ourselves, and then we don't need a cultural council. I must give the signal from the representative Giske – I can do that. Otherwise I think actually they've come to realize it. So I'm not in agreement with Gish in what he says, because it has to be a relationship with what we give out of trust in those that we appoint on behalf of big business or government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1302	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1305	The Labour Party will have good conditions for sport at all levels. Whether you're an active sportsman yourself, you're a gymnast, you're a volunteer in clubs and teams, or you're an avid spectator from the sofa, you've played a great place in many people's lives. Sports are both entertainment and leisure activities. Sport is health-promoting and contributes to the creation of meeting places for people with different backgrounds. Today, children experience being rejected from sports because there is a shortage of tracks or halls. The working party will not prevent children from engaging in sports. That is why we want to invest in the development of multipurpose halls and sports facilities. Major cities and agglomerations shall be given priority. I am therefore very pleased that in the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government's parties there was room for extra allowances for a multi-purpose hall, and that it seems to be located at Kvalösletta in Tromsø. Multi-use halls shall be community meeting places with different sports and leisure activities for all generations. There shall be spaces for many types of activities: both organised sport, activities to which each individual commits, and activities not directly related to sport, such as: seniority centres, non-governmental organisations, school leisure schemes or libraries. In addition, it is important that funds for the maintenance and rehabilitation of old plants are also given priority. Central and local authorities are jointly responsible for contributing to a good sporting offer throughout the country. It's the voluntary effort sport survives. But it is also important not to suffocate voluntary efforts. It is important not to require the participation of parents or the size of the membership quota to prevent anyone, children or young people, from participating. Sport shall be for all, and it shall be the basis of the new support scheme for sport, which increases the income of teams and clubs in the local environment. In the future, the Workers' Party will follow up the initiative on the basis of experience with the new scheme. Some of the funds transferred from the country to the organisations intend to bring in children and young people at risk of falling outside the community. Thus, sport for all can contribute to a society for all. Many top sportsmen live by their sport. In the professional part of the sport, we have both employees and employers. This means that there is also a need to require an orderly employment relationship with employment contracts and insurance schemes in place. The working party looks very seriously at the increasing use of doping in sport, and we want to strengthen the anti-doping work in Norwegian sport. Through research and development, we need to find methods to identify the use of known doping agents and the possibility of following the development of ever-new doping methods. Information and awareness-raising activities need to be strengthened in cooperation with sport’s own organisations. The Labour Party would like both the acquisition, possession and use of doping agents to be made punishable. Doping is about someone wanting to make the performance bigger. But for some, it's also about reaching artificial body ideals. As I started my post with, sports are health-promoting and important for creating good communities. But the sports environment can also add the germ to eating disorders. The government has increased its efforts towards eating disorders, but we haven't made it far enough. Of course, as far as treatment is concerned, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Health. However, in terms of increasing efforts for prevention and early help, I hope that both the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Children and Family Affairs will be actively involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1324	Art and culture are self-valued and essential for the development of the individual's identity, quality of life and commitment. The Norwegian cultural landscape is characterised by well-developed cultural institutions and a professional art life, with highly skilled, creative and performing artists. At the same time, Norway has a broad and valuable public involvement in voluntary cultural activities. It is therefore necessary to provide a better framework for both professional and amateur-based culture that stimulates the country’s artists, regardless of whether they are free and independent or active within the cultural institutions. It is also important to develop cultural policy in a way that stimulates interest in the cultural field also among the people of Norway who have their roots in other countries and cultures. Promoting meeting places for artistic development and cultural exchange can create access, communication and mutual understanding across cultural differences. In an increasingly open international society, it is also important that the cultural sector exploits the opportunities and addresses the challenges it presents. Cross-border interactions and cooperation between cultural institutions in different countries are therefore becoming increasingly important. Cultural participation is a crucial part of the identity-building process for equality and integration. I am therefore very pleased with the budget agreement we have now reached with the Workers' Party, as in particular. gives a small but important boost to cultures from other parts of the world. Mela 2002, a Norwegian-Pakistan cultural model that will make and increase knowledge of the art and culture of the region of Southeast Asia from which the majority of minorities living in Norway come, has received DKK 400,000. In addition, we have given 400,000 kroner to Agenda X, which is a unique writing training measure that has given many minority young people who want to develop as writers, a real opportunity to do so. These young writers create a new and exciting cross-point in literature, which will eventually become an important piece in Norwegian authorship. In order to obtain a wide range of offers also within literature, which is a unique cultural intermediary, it is important to capture new thoughts and expressions. Give recognition to the new voices and bring them to light! This is also in line with what is stated in the Sem Declaration that the Cooperative Government will pursue a cultural policy that will give new impetus and stimulate creativity and innovation in cultural life. Otherwise, we are very pleased that next year's cultural budget is a strengthening for the museums, jazz, dance and opera. We think it is important that redisposals within the cultural budget, among other things. increases the allocation of local and regional cultural buildings and festival support, representing a culture that is worthy of care.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1339	Politics is at the bottom of the question about the fight to live. The culture is the way we want to live. This is a starting point for understanding why it is important to bet on culture and to understand the concept of culture as something other than the question of giving money. Focusing on culture is a strategy for what we want to live today, and also for what life we want our children will have in the future. It's a myth that artists have to be poor to be good. Greed in a cultural effort is just an expression of spiritual poverty in the country. My wish is that the cultural and art environments in this country will be able to see that we, who operate on the political arena, actually want something about cultural life. I want those people – and others as well – to experience politicians encounter cultural life with fervor and enthusiasm. In this context – since others have done so in previous debates – I could send a Christmas card to the Progress Party, saying that my hope was that they too would perceive it. I'm glad that in the majority position, there is a broad focus, because it's not just the traditional culture we're talking about, but it's also the more experimental. I appreciate the fact that the Oslo Dance ensemble is proposed to allocate 1 million. kr. Similarly, it is an important signal that Agenda X is proposed for a grant of DKK 400000, because it provides room for young people with a minority background to invest in literature that has a anchor in the culture of which they are part. So to another thing. It is traditional for the Storting to follow the government's decision regarding state grants. I will therefore do nothing but make a request to the Council of State to consider one special author at the next round of allocation. This author I believe deserves to be a State Fellow, both as a person and as a writer, but, most importantly, perhaps, as a symbol of an entire generation. A few years ago, a statement was read here in Stortinget with a complaint against the NS children in Norway. It was an important event in the work of putting World War II behind us. And the one who has stood in front in many ways and put words on the destiny of the NS children and their treatment, is the author Eystein Egg. Through the book Gutten fra Gimle he was told his story. I would therefore ask the Council of State to carefully evaluate the author, Eystein Egg, the next time proposals for the award of state scholarships are presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1354	Cultural experiences touch the spiritual within us people. It challenges us on a different level than the intellectual. A meeting with art can inspire and provoke, and sometimes we don't understand anything. Then we must realize that the art was meant to meet someone other than us, or that our own excellence has been challenged. There are many children and young people who unfold their creativity through cultural activities. The music and cultural schools have become a positive feature of the lives of many young people. These schools are not under our committee. However, I think it should be mentioned that the Committee on Culture has not only registered their existence, but that we also appreciate them. Increased awareness of the arts and culture of children and young people is central to the upgrading of Culture-Norway. During the development of the cultural school system, we should also have an eye on the music and cultural schools. Cooperation here must be natural and strong for both. There are also many people who do a lot of work in different non-governmental organisations. Significant efforts are being made by these organisations, both adults, young people and children. In many contexts, this is seen as a precautionary measure. And now, President, I warn you, here comes one of my captors. When you do leisure activities, if you're five or fifty, it's part of your everyday life. It helps raise your quality of life. And you do it because you want to. As the representative from the Left said, no one has a musician for old ladies to prevent – to prevent them from gossiping. But I'm going to admit that when I was on the Cultural Board in Kristiansand, it happened that I had to use arguments like this to prevent, and that it was cheap activities. We get a lot out of each of these heads through these activities. I hear myself! But it was in the desperate struggle to get others to grant badly needed crowns. I also know that everything I was in when I was a kid and a kid, I did because I liked it, and it had a self-esteem for me. There has been a clean-up in the legislation of the grant schemes following the so-called AUF case. Of course, it is important that the public has checkpoints to ensure that the resources reach their intended purpose. But after discussions with the Norwegian Children’s and Youth Council, it turns out that huge resources are being used to meet our demands for control. An evaluation of this grant scheme has been announced. In particular, we would point out that this must result in a system that needs to reduce red tape and administration, so that organisations can spend as much of their time as they can. It has been said that the transfers that now go to voluntary children’s and youth organisations are the best-guarded state funds we have, and that is a cross-thinking. The battle for the military orchestras has been going on for a while, and I am glad that it is now approaching a solution. After the decommissioning of the defense plant in Southland, I said in my time in the defense committee that now we have only the defender's playing musicians again to defend us. In that context, divisional music should be exclusively a matter of defence. But in reality -- I admit it -- it's probably so much a cultural matter. Christian People's Party is pleased that the Ministry of Culture, together with the Ministry of Defence, is now finding solutions for the divisional music in Halden and in Kristiansand. The Christian People's Party is also pleased – and perhaps especially the Christian People's Party's representatives from Kristiansand – that a joint committee underlines the importance of involving the municipalities and county councils involved in the work in a committed way. The Committee agrees that the objective must be to identify comprehensive solutions that pursue key cultural policy objectives in the regions. As a conclusion, and perhaps as a Christmas greeting home, I would like to stress what the Committee has said about the sailing ships. We've underlined that these are cultural taxes that we're going to take care of. I am pleased that we now agree that funds must be set aside so that ships can be secured a predictable economy for the future, for the restoration of these ships is very necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1378	Norwegian culture is rich in contrast and diverse. If you take a trip around our beautiful cultural country, you are overwhelmed by the creativity and the will. Individuals and non-governmental organisations deserve a great deal of thanks, for these are really the bearer of cultural life in our country. Of course, cultural institutions represent infrastructure and continuity and are an important meeting place for experiences and knowledge, but the more areas you can make use of as cultural carriers, the more you reach out to all groups in society. I am thinking in particular of the 'cultural school bag', where different artists go out and communicate art and culture with children, in the children's arena. I hope that both the term ‘cultural school’ and the content will be allowed to survive and develop further. Here, school students get a bag full of inspiration, stimulation, knowledge and, not least, room for imagination. Albert Einstein once said, «Fantasi is more important than knowledge». And who has more imagination than children? The working party is concerned that culture should be involved and provide value creation, among other things. through tourism and travel experiences. Interaction of nature and culture is a natural part of this, especially in District Norway. I just mention the Lofoten, with nature and culture hand in hand. This has created many valuable jobs. For me, it is particularly gratifying that the Workers' Party received support from the entire Committee, except for the Progress Party – it was not unexpected – in that the State now commits 1 million. for 2002 to start the long-awaited Hamsun Centre on Hamarøy in Northern Ireland. This is of great cultural and district policy importance. Everyone knows Hamsun and his authorship, and of course it is necessary to honor his memory with a center built in the place where he grew up. The total of the center is 65 million. kr, and already the centre is financed by more than half of this sum. The project is ready for launch and, hopefully, will be launched in August 2002. I expect the same majority as we are today to follow up on this construction project in future budgetary proceedings. District Policy is also the maintenance of NRK district offices, and Nordland and Østfold now have their own district broadcasts for TV. Unfortunately, however, the joy was short-lived for Nordland when the board of directors in the NRK decided that Nordland would only be smothered by the decision of Stortinget on television broadcasts for Nordland and Østfold. I'll call 5 minutes for crumbs. The money for these shipments has been paid for the longest time in advance by way of licence increases, all since 1997, and the decisions taken at that time in Stortinget did not involve five-minute shipments. They did not exist then, so the Stortinget has of course intended that Nordland should be equated with the other district offices, which have 25 minutes. So because of the difficult economic situation for the NRK, the NRK chooses to use already paid extra license fees for purposes other than those for which they were designated. The upswing in Northern Ireland is enormous, and the state's top politicians are now assessing whether Nordland should refuse to pay a licence. Nordneut, which today is the consignment for all three northern states, does not meet the need for Northernland. Distances are large, and geography is difficult, so that getting a full shipment for Nordland can only be done through a transmission surface similar to that of the other district offices. I expect the Council of State to follow up what she said earlier to the future of the Nordic newspaper: ‘I don’t see what the NRK has come with is good enough for Nordland’. Furthermore, the Council of State says that she cannot rule out the possibility of instructing the NRK management in this matter. Will the Council of State keep what she has promised, and at the same time follow the decision of the Great Government? And what will the Council of State do with the general situation of the NRK?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1398	Before we move on to the 3 minute speeches, the president will show that the committee has chosen to merge the 3 minute speeches in both debates, and that the president should actually reject those who have spoken twice. It's going to be completely impossible, in the President's view. The President will deal with the last debate, and those who sign up more than twice in relation to the list of speakers we had during the last debate will only get the floor for a brief comment. - This for information. The president hopes, when he's so liberal, that there won't be so many people drawing for 3 minutes. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1403	People in a number of municipalities can rejoice that they have been given new cultural buildings in the community. Cultural buildings contribute to the strengthening of the cultural life of individual communities. Choir, corps and theaters are given the opportunity to perform in premises that meet today's requirements, and local environments are given the opportunity to receive visits to performances that would otherwise be reserved for people in a few cities in the country. However, there are still very many communities in line for funding for cultural buildings. The aftermath is great, and funds from the state, seas if they are limited, will in many cases be what tilts, which makes the municipalities manage to finance a new building. It is extremely disappointing that a majority in the United Kingdom is in favour of breaking the record for cultural buildings. Not only does the majority reduce the allocation to local and regional cultural buildings by 5.4 million. kr from 2001 to 2002, but at the same time they erode the scheme by incorporating measures that are not defined as local or regional cultural buildings. For some strange reason, this item has been used for a collection item of otherwise excellent measures, but has nothing to do with cultural construction. The entry for local and regional cultural houses adds money to what is mainly sports halls — which have their own allocation of more than 350 million sports facilities. This includes design funds for Europe’s Bluesenter at Notodden – which under no circumstances will become a cultural house, including the start-up grant for the Hamsun Centre in Northern Ireland – which is clearly a national cultural building and for which there is a separate entry, including the design funds for Hedmark Theatre – which also have nothing to do with this entry. As I said, the Central Party supports all these measures, but the way in which the Committee has financed the measures, breaks down the support for local and regional cultural buildings. In last year's budgetary position, the Right and Christian People's Party, together with the SV and the Centre Party, considered the following: The parties ‘will underline the importance of local and regional cultural houses for the cultural life of each community. These members indicate that the pressure on the grant scheme is high and that many applications are repeated over several years without reaching.’ This was meant last year. Obviously, this year you mean completely different things. I can only note and regret this. But it undoubtedly gives the impression of a lack of coherence in the cultural policies of these parties, and that the priorities from year to year are very random. Finally, I refer to our proposal No. Thirty-five.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1419	Åslaug Haga has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1422	Why is there a need for consumer offices in each state? Because they have direct contact with the public, because problem-taking and consumer policy advances are best done by localisation. Competition supervision is now regionalised. It's an extra moment that's talking about keeping track of the county office. The Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Bastisen were united in stressing this in their own comment on the treatment of the revised national budget as late as in ours. The party of progress said in its note that the proposal for cutting broke with the best quality Consumer Council. They pointed to the proximity of users, to the media, to business, to organisations and to the political system, and said, among other things. also that consumer offices are already at a minimum of what consumers consume. What has happened from a broad deal about county offices in 2000, to clear positions from several parties in our day and to the setting today, where only SV and the Central Party are behind a proposal for one office in each state? Well, the Labour Party has come up with proposals for amendments to the statutes of the Consumer Council. The independence of the institution shall be clarified, provided for in the current statutes, if consumer offices in each State are to be replaced by a decentralised organisational structure. The service level should be kept up as high as possible by this name. With that purchasing pressure, and with all the offers that exist in our society, it must be more important than ever to have clear user guidance in each state. I would ask the Council of State, in the light of the Christian People's Party and the Left's position as late as June 2001, to reconsider this matter. I also thought Ola T. Loan should answer whether it is independence or service that should be superior to it. So to an area that also requires clarification, and that's for crisis centers. A review of the funding was reported in the action plan against women’s elections from the central government. Two years later, these centres do not yet have a viable financial base. For all those who get the most needed help through these centers, it is necessary to ask for a quick clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1435	Now I was actually going to make a post for the Council of State Victor Norman, but since he's not here, I have to ask that this post be sent to him in the post, so that he at least gets a report from the debate. I've tried to shake a little bit in Erna Solberg and Victor Norman because I don't think they have a good housing policy. But I don't know if the shake has worked any way. I may still have managed to scare some little neighbor. Because I see that the government parties in the committee have now been involved in securing a majority for the proposal that the state should be able to sell out its properties cheaper, which was, of course, proposed by the new government. That's good. And that's a very good start. If you sell land cheaper than the market price, you can get cheaper dwellings at the other end. But we who belong to this majority in Stortinget have a problem. Because even though the Storting never gives so much power to the Government to sell land cheaply, so that we can get cheap housing, it doesn't help anything if the Government says, as Victor Norman said from the pulpit here instead, that it doesn't intend to do it. We record that Stortinget wants to give the government an authority to do this – but we have not asked for this authority," said Norman instead. Over the past week, I have heard both State Council Norman and State Council Solberg say that they do not want to sell land at below market prices. Then I realize that the job I have for me is to convince the councils that this is a trick, and I intend to do so. The main objection from Norman is that it is difficult to ensure that the subsidies involved in selling land cheaply do not end up in the pockets of a builder rather than stay in the project. That's why he's rather to use grants. Erna Solberg thinks it's unfair with subsidised plots, because the money will go mainly to Oslo. To Norman: I fully agree with Norman that the state cannot just sell cheap plots to anyone. But what's important is to make sure that the money is in the project. This is already done in Bergen, in the so-called Bergens model, where cheap rental properties are built with subsidies from the state, and where the municipality provides cheap plots. The housing team undertakes to provide cheap dwellings with everlasting property rights for the municipality for a certain part of the apartments. This is a good solution, because then you ensure that the money is in the project. To Erna Solberg: the problem is greatest in Oslo, and therefore it's quite natural and logical that if we're going to subsidize, we do it mainly on the plots that the state has here in Oslo. Here's the state a big landowner. If we choose to give the money in the form of grants, so that you can buy land, or give it in the form of land, it's a good idea to give plots, because then we know exactly that these plots will go to that particular purpose. Then we'll improve the housing structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1452	The President seems to have heard almost the same article once before in connection with another budget. Eli Sollied Upperaas has withdrawn from the list of speakers. Next is the Olemic Thommessen. – I’m sorry if it came as a surprise, but there was a free space.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1457	I would like to take surprises of this character. When I have asked for the word twice, it is because I feel the need to say something about the VAT reform and the costs that have been incurred in the case of KLP. The Committee has been concerned that many of the institutions below our chapters have been affected by these reforms in a very uncomfortable way. Under the chapters Theatre and Opera applications and Museum and other cultural protection purposes, this is specifically mentioned. The majority of the Committee, which consists of all but the Advance Party, asks the Ministry to identify the negative effects and come back in the context of the revised national budget with proposals for compensation or at least evaluate them. Unfortunately, this has not been mentioned under the musical chapter. That means that our orchestras are thus not covered by this remark. I am absolutely convinced that the same majority represented in the two remarks I have mentioned will also support the fact that this assessment must also be possible for our orchestras. They're in the same landscape.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1466	To the end, from the representative Thommessen, I can only confirm that from the Christian People's Party, we are behind this which was now said. I've had two attacks, I must say, almost from our former governmentmate, the Central Party, the last from the representative of Meltveit Kleppa, and then from the representative of Åslaug Haga. The first question I think I'm going to challenge the Minister for Children and Family to answer, and then we have some kind of division of labour, and I can say a little bit about what's involved in culture and culture. I think, I'm going to be honest with you, that Haga's representative used quite strong terms – breaking the line and hollowing out an important chapter. Regional and local cultural buildings have been an important chapter for us together for many years. That's still that. It also says in the program to the Christian People's Party, and we're going to fight for it to have a high level, because it's a very big aftertaste, and it's used and useful. So it's that we have some negotiations sometimes that make us also have to be willing to give in areas where it can hurt a little bit. I also believe that the Central Party and the representative Haga have been involved. I just have to say that the option could of course have been that we had to cut the press support. Would the representative Haga think it was something nice? We could have cut off voluntary children's and youth organisations. Would the representative Haga think it was something nice? We could have cut at museums, archives and libraries. Would the representative Haga think it was nice? Even she almost ran over a suggestion to restore a post in support of mobile library services, that the post was far too small. If we had not been willing to participate and cut and reach an agreement, we would have had nothing. It would not have been very pleasant either. Finally, I just want to say that in this cultural budget, presented by the Workers' Party and carried on by the Cooperation Government, there is more to culture than in some of the previous budgets, while the Center Party and the Christian People's Party put together in government, although we were very pleased with those budgets and boasted of them as well. So I think this has become very good. When it comes to what's going on, I actually get it. I'll write that in the account of technical problems. This is something that we can easily correct by taking out the posts that have been added to them. Europe's Bluessenter at Notodden, Hedmark Theatre and the Hamsun Centre, moving it over to another post where it belongs. The thing was that these things were added to, so it's not taken off the appropriation. It was reduced by 5.4 million. kr. That's right, and most of it goes to a multipurpose hall, and it should. But I expect the Council of State to take this as a call and change it, so that it is placed in posts where it belongs naturally, and that it is brought back in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1481	As regards proposal No: 26, on which the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party stand together, the Center Party has drawn this, and we're not going to maintain it. I'd like to justify it. We made a proposal last year that the NRK should be entitled to deduct VAT. Now, when we don't maintain the proposal, it's because we want to come back with a Document No. Eight proposals later. With regard to the NRK, we in the Socialist Left Party are quite concerned about District Norway, and we are a little surprised that the Council of State is taking this so easily when we think about what the majority in the budgetary position from last year said: «The Committee's plurality, the members of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, show that the Stortinget, when handled by St. pp. [[1996-1997]] No 1 decided to increase the licence fee by $40 which would partly finance the completion of the development of district television. What I'm asking is, what's changed up to this year, when we're now facing the situation that we're doing in relation to the NRK. Then I'd like to say a little bit about the Norwegian Film Fund. The Left Party is very concerned about the maintenance and development of an environment for new directors and producers, which must be given the opportunity to develop through support schemes to produce short films and feature films. It is important that the already introduced 50/50 scheme become a reality as soon as possible. This is a good scheme that can stimulate business to finance films and at the same time have constructive cooperation with Norwegian cultural life. Against this background, the Socialist Left wants to continue to work to enable the production company Borealis AS to build a permanent exhibition and an experience and information centre in Kautokeino. The project shall be implemented through a cooperation project between national, local and Sami authorities and between cultural and business life. We believe that this is such an exciting project that we will come back with a proposal for funding in the form of a Document No. Eight proposals. When it comes to saying hello, I would like to say that I am pleased that the 'Momentum' is now on the state budget. Even if SV suggested 2 million. And it was 500,000, we're happy with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1507	First, briefly, to the debate on the rules of disposal of State property. The theme is definitely at home in this debate, because it is about how to take overall action to achieve housing policy objectives. If a land is sold for another purpose, it is difficult to use it for social housing. It's Santa's missing. It is therefore important that we now ensure at least the public land, whether in state or municipal ownership, which is suitable for this purpose. It is built a lot, but very little of it is so that people with poor advice have some chance to get a place to live, which is the purpose. If the Council of State does not intend to use the rules of disposal, to which the Storting has now given him the opportunity, and refers to other instruments, then the Council of State and the Government must make the instruments and volume visible on them and how they intend to use them, so that we actually see that they reach those results. It is possible to enshrine land and property in such a way as to achieve housing policy objectives. So to the proposal that the Central Party has made and that is on the platform today. SV sees well the basis for the criticism that the Senterpartiet has raised. We share the concern that there may be some uncertainty as to what is covered within the various items. However, we believe that the projects now funded under this item, as it has become apparent, are so important that we are not willing to take the chance that the funding of those measures will go out and perhaps not reach the revised national budget. We will therefore, if the proposal remains, have to vote against it, sail if we are to seamly also want more money so that local and regional cultural houses can get their fair share of a grant. I would therefore ask the Central Party to think about whether it might be wise not to promote this proposal now, and that we rather together – there are several parties who have now said that we share this intention – can see if we can find a solution that actually helps to get money into the revised national budget for spring, so that we can manage to lift these posts. I don't think we're going to get out with any lucky solution now if the projects that have now found their funding within this framework fall out. Therefore, SV will have to vote against proposal No. 35 if it's taken up to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1514	The stork is today honored with visits by miners, or rather mountain women. They don't come with tied fists. They come with a smile about their mouth in confidence that they get the money they need to get their mining train back on their legs. There was great concern in the community and throughout Busherud last year, when studies showed that the risk in mines was so high that it required severe improvements to a price tag of 18 million. kr – far from being given for cultural purposes in these times. It is therefore very pleasant, and it has been a nice experience, to be the case rapporteur for a matter where there has been agreement from A to Å between all parties, including the Progress Party, which I do not see as any natural partner in such matters. We're going to hope that it's not just Kongsberg, but that you'll take care of this kind of cultural memory anyway. There has been some unrest — the Council of State also mentioned it — about the establishment of the Norwegian Association of Artists. SV is involved in a majority opinion on this matter. In the light of the knowledge we have gained even after the delivery of the protocol, it may feel a bit tight for our part. It's a little bit too absolute and a little bit too detailed. That doesn't mean that we don't have the main point of view here, namely that those who have formed the Norwegian Artist's Association have done so because they don't feel cared for by the other organisations that represented them earlier. We have to take that seriously, and I will take that seriously. There are hearings going on, and we have also said that we want to get through those hearings. So we're just flagging that we have a more nuanced view of that matter than what might be here, but we're going to follow the case further. With regard to the last thing that Olemic Thommes had up, with the VAT problem and the orchestras, I agree with Thommes. It's a purely work accident from the committee. We have been observant of these matters in every context, and it is our comments that have been accepted. Our remark is here, and it's probably an accident that the others haven't joined it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1525	First, I just want to say that, like SV, we fully agree that this with VAT also has to include the orchestras, so here it's a broad consensus. The Councils of State for the Cultural Area say in their speech about some of the things that the Committee has done, that she doesn't like it, but she accepts it. The last one is obvious, but the first one is a little bit interesting because very many of the changes and comments that have been made are also made by the party that she runs herself. In fact, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Workers' Party are united on the budget that is now being adopted. There's actually a consensus between those parties. It is not even a subsidiary vote, but a settlement. And then I think that also the leader of the party that is actually involved in the conciliation should be able to say that this is good, and not nearly written with the restraining pen. So for the discussion around the Council of Culture. Also, the Council of State told her to transmit signals, but she did not agree. I also think that is quite eye-catching, considering what I said in my post. I said that the policy of the Culture Council must be part of the overall cultural policy of government and big business, and not the other way around. If the Minister of Culture disagrees with that, I think it's quite eye-catching. When I find reason to address that very question from the pulpit, it is because of some media statements from the Council of Culture, it can almost seem as if it is the other way around. When we take money from the pot that the Council of Culture has at its disposal, and grant it directly to the Oslo Dance ensemble, we are of course free to do that. Although the Cultural Council itself does not have that priority, but has said no to the Oslo Dance ensemble several times, we are quite free to determine how we have the full cultural framework in Norway. I think the Cultural Council should just take note of that. I also think they should take the signals given politically. Even if we have no right of instruction over the Council of Culture and do not want to have it – they should have their professional freedom to the extent that someone can stand up to say that they have a fasitant response, whatever artistic and professional is of high quality – they should take the signals from the hands of them as before. I think it makes sense to try as far as possible to be part of the whole cultural policy. If we don't get to see other ways of organizing cultural appropriations, so that we make sure that we have a whole policy. My last point is the Fund for Performing Artists. A hearing opinion has been issued from the Ministry to extend the exerciserepresentation with one representative. We think that is too weak, so we have received a comment saying that it must be ‘extended substantially’. I am pleased that the Council of State has taken note of the fact that the organisations should have the right to set up. But we expect the result to be a significant extension. [[President clubs]] We didn't want to go into concrete instructions, but we expect the Council of State to take those signals. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1538	The President reminds us of the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1541	I'm going to go on where I ended my previous post, just in the crisis and incestcentra situation. The centre party thinks that there's a hurry with a clear signal about a strengthening of these centers, it's urgent with security and forbearance when it comes to the economy. In my view, the Committee has put forth wise words about the inclusion of ear-marked residues in the income system. We want both to strengthen funds and to simplify the system of transfers to the local government sector. But in our view, there is a great difference between incorporating ear-marked additives that are supposed to take care of general provision in all municipalities, and incorporating additives that are ear-marked to special measures in some communities. If the Council of State of Davøy wants to strengthen crisis centres, which I have no reason to believe it will not, it should notify the adjacent ear marking, at least until the current imbalance between tasks and resources in the municipal sector has been restored. If she does not want to listen to the Central Party and to the Christian People's Party and the Central Party have already been united in this area, she can confer with the Minister of Culture. She now has experience with the mailboxes. That experience is relevant in relation to what may occur when an ear marking of the tip disappears. It's a fact that when the tip of the bookcases disappeared because it went into the frames, the municipalities saw themselves forced to spend these funds on other and statutory tasks. And most of the mailboxes, and unfortunately a lot of lending of books, disappeared. In our view, it is risky to bet on a similar experiment when it concerns crisis and incest centres, for the sake of all those who need the supply they represent, and for the sake of all the volunteers who are engaged before this field. The Committee has undertaken a necessary, if not complete, recovery when it comes to the bookcases. State Council Davøy should cut through and avoid such a rounding for these centers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1552	I agree with the representative, Kleppa, that predictability is very important in terms of crisis centres. I also notice from the representative's first post that she believes it has taken too long to deal with a change in the financial instrument. In fact, the report on both the crisis centres and the incest centres has just been completed, and we have not yet had the opportunity to deal with it politically. It is a comprehensive report that addresses both organisation and economics. I'll make sure that this work goes as fast as possible, because it's an important job. A funding mechanism that can ensure an accessible and good offer of crisis response to those who need it is a clear objective. It's also true that in St.prp. No 1 for 2000-2001 the then government proposed that the grant scheme be continued in view of the repeal of the 2004 designation. But I notice that the representative Kleppa strongly warns against this, and will take it with me in the further work as we now go into this important area. So to the Consumer Council, there was also a question related to it. What is important to me in this context is that consumers have a place to visit and that they are guaranteed a good service offer. Service is in the high seat. But what is doubtful is that the enquiries have changed form. It's actually like this today that 98 pst. contacts to offices are made by letter, telephone or other means via remote communication. So it's changed quite dramatically. I must also mention that the economy of the Consumer Council has been very tight in recent years, which may call for both professional and organisational innovation. And I haven't expressed that I per. the current date necessarily wants to close or merge consumer offices. What is mentioned in the budget, which was already in the proposal of the previous government, is that, through the creation of a separate board and through new statutes, the Council should be given a little greater powers to decide for itself how the organisation should develop. But important organisational changes, however, as I see it, will have to be subject to political treatment. In addition to spring, we will intensify work on the organisational structure of the consumer area. It is possible that it is not a good enough answer for the representative Kleppa, as I am not standing here and saying: Yes, everything should be maintained. But in line with the developments we have had, I think it must be right to look at both the organisational structure and the ways in which we work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1565	Few areas of society are plagued by such a distance between political festivities and real political will to follow up as a voluntary sector. This is sad because very small funds can help to accomplish large tasks. There is a lot of the profitability of the majority of the population that the Centre does not follow, but in the field of volunteering, there will really be reason for the Stortinge to look at returns relative to investment. The funny thing is, you don't want to do that. You hold parties and avoid giving money. The budget of the Ministry of Children and Family is no exception. In festivals, most politicians believe that non-governmental organisations have characteristics that the welfare state and industry lack and that are important for social solidarity. But then there was practice: both the government of Stoltenberg and the co-operation government's budget proposals mean a reduction in the subsidy to voluntary children's and young people's organisations. This is particularly shown in the chapter. 857 Item 72 Strengthening the growing-up environment, which is intended to support the involvement of municipalities in the participation and living conditions of children and young people, and entry 75 on youth action in the districts. These entries are merged, and it is proposed to allocate 5.86 million. NOK, in which case the item is not even price adjusted. In addition, the allocation to FRIFOND, which goes to voluntary children’s and youth organisations, is at the same level as for 2001. This appropriation is not priced despite the fact that the majority does not lack a favourable opinion on FRIFFOND in its general observations. I have to ask: can no one then think that there are trends in society that defend the voluntary organisations of children and young people being given more urgent conditions? Rather, the Committee expresses a serious concern for the development of this group related to violence, threats, bullying and abuse. It has to be allowed to ask where the relationship is! Many non-governmental organisations experience great wear and tear. They are struggling to provide sufficient resources for operations and increasingly to find trustees who have time and ability to take on leadership positions in organisations. Many firemen still make a huge effort year in and year out. Better basic funding would facilitate work, and not least could those wishing to engage in voluntary child and youth work spend time on children and young people, not on cake bazaars, flea markets and demanding paperwork to scrape money together. Voluntary work is usually just as important in cities as in the countryside. This is why the Centre Party also wants to strengthen the role of youth action in larger urban communities, as well as the posts for FRIFOND, strengthening the growth environment and youth action in the districts. We proposed an increase of 33 million in total. kr in our budget. If the majority had taken part in this, the Storting would have helped to establish a better match between words and actions in relation to volunteering. That's what Freedom Norway deserved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1578	I just want to say a few words about our industrial museums, as the representative Olemic Thommess so far was inside his post. I look at developments in relation to our industrial museums with concern. We have a total of 31 registered industrial memories. The authorities themselves have selected eight of these as bet areas. Unfortunately, we are in the situation that only half of these are supported by the Ministry of Culture. The same four have received support in recent years. All eight continue to receive support from the Ministry of the Environment. We know that there is an interaction between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Culture in order to get these on their feet. I hope that the Council of State can go through these valuable memories and give a handshake so that all eight will still be allowed to join the bet areas, since the authorities themselves have been the driving force for all these eights. In particular, I hope that the Minister of Culture now engages in dialogue with the Ministry of Environment to see what we have done wrong, since we cannot take care of all eight. At least three of the four not supported in recent years have major financial problems. I hope that the Council of State also sees it as quite meaningless, when the state has chosen eight as cultural memories itself, that only half of it is going to get funds. I would like to remind the Council of State that we have received strong signals that there are problems around the country with these industrial memories. So I hope you can go through this, and at least you can agree on the eight that the state itself has told us to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1589	The representative, Ola T. Lånk, has held the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1592	I take the floor to go further in relation to this little discussion I had with the representative Åslaug Haga about the positions of Chapter 320, entry 60 in the cultural budget. As I read this proposal put forward by the representative Haga, it is about a purely technical position by post and chapter in the budget. I think we have to be able to do something about that. I ask the representative Haga to turn this proposal into a transfer proposal to the Government, and I expect this to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1599	The representative Guess was in his last post concerned that the council had been negative to some part of what the setting contained. I would like to remind the representative that I both started and ended my contribution by saying that I was well pleased, but I pointed out some of the changes that the Committee has made in the budget that we presented. Most of it's stuck, and I'm glad. But at the same time it would be wrong for me not to point to the areas where there have been changes. Nevertheless, I am very pleased with the plural position that is on the table today, and I will have the opportunity to further develop a good cultural policy on the basis that Stortinget will give us. So it was the representative from SV who was surprised that I took so easily the signal coming from the NRK and what the board has adopted. One can discuss what it will mean to be easy to deal with, but one can also discuss what a government council can do in relation to the rights we have given the NRK's board of directors and the broadcasting director. In no way do I take lightly the situation in which the NRK is up – I have even asked to come to Stortinget with a statement, where we can have a review of it. I would also like to remind you that the budget for the NRC adopted today is a copy of the budget proposed by the Labour Party. We have made no changes to the Labour Party's proposals. I'm going to think that the Labour Party had much more time to go through its economic situation before they put out the budget than what I've had on the three weeks I got before we laid out our budget. But the debate is going to start in the new year when I come up with a statement. When it comes to this with the regional policy profile and significant changes, we have said that if there are significant changes, we have to come back to the Storting, but we have not seen any significant changes in the regional policy profile. The software supply to go out in the district shipments has not been marked by any significant change in it. That one must cut down at the district offices as well, as one must in the NRC on Marienlyst, is part of the board's responsibility according to the financial framework they have received. It's a responsibility that I actually want to give to the board. If there are significant changes in the offer made to the listeners and viewers, we will have to bring it back to the General Assembly or to the Storing, as we also know will happen. Then back to the representative Giske in relation to the Cultural Council. I think the big difference is between ‘instructing’ and giving a signal. I have also given a signal to the Council of Culture, and the setting gives a signal, but there is a difference between giving a signal and giving the instructions that Ellen Horn put into the budget presented by the Stoltenberg government. I don't want to instruct, but giving a signal has both the Storting and the Government right and duty to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1613	Åslaug Haga has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1616	It is only for the recommendation from Lånke: I do not accept that my proposal, no. 35, it's only about technique. But in the light of the expressed will here in the Chamber to clean up the inexorable treatment that has become part of local and regional cultural buildings, we accept transmission. At least then we will see the majority's lack of willingness to give priority to local and regional cultural buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1623	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1115]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1639	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1143]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1655	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1143]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1671	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1144]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1687	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1144]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1703	We have had the debates on these issues, so for the Labour Party, I will now just take up our proposals and the proposals that we are with others – so that's what it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1708	Tore Nordtun has taken up the suggestions he made okay for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1711	The progress party is concerned with efficiency improvement, simplification and bureaucratisation. That is why, in our primary draft budget, we have voted in favour of a framework for Framework 22 which is 199 million. kr lower than the adopted framework sum. We simply believe that there is a need and possibility to put in place efficiency measures within the financial administration. In the last four years, the customs duty rate and the tax rate have increased their net operating costs by approx. 28 pst. We have therefore done a modest cut of approx. 5 pst. on the operating costs of these named etats. Since our primary proposal has not yet received a number of figures, we will nevertheless join the Government Party's proposal within the agreed framework. The party of progress has always been against the national register of recreational craft and small boats. We believe that this is an unnecessary register that can be decommissioned in favour, and we are also proposing it. When the proceeds were released from the sale and sale of Oslo Børs, we found it positive that part of this proceeds were used to set up a financial market fund. We still mean that not only 90 million. kr, but the entire proceeds should be set aside for such a fund. This should be delayed by the revision of the national budget. The rationale for this is two-part. We think that the fund must be of such a size in order to meet its purpose in a satisfactory way. We also found it unthinkable that the state should profit directly from the sale of Oslo Stock Exchange. We are therefore of the clear opinion that the entire proceeds from the sale of Oslo Børs should go unabated into a financial market fund. In the light of this review, the Progress Party will repeat the proposals in its configuration by the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1726	The President perceives that Gjermund Hageseter has drawn up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1729	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1734	I should only be allowed to record the suggestions from SV in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1739	Heidi Grande Røys has drawn up the suggestions she made well for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1742	I would like to address the suggestions the Centre Party has, alone or with others, in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1747	Morten Lund has taken up the suggestions he made okay for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1750	I'll allow myself to do the same. On behalf of the cooperation parties, I address our proposals, and recommend the part of the setting that we are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1756	Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he made okay for. The President then believes that all the proposals are busy. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1145]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1776	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1158]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1792	In the coming years, there will be a significant increase in the quotas for imports of alcohol and tobacco between EU countries, and many countries already practice free imports. This will lead to an increasing pressure to harmonise the level of taxes on alcohol and tobacco. The new Danish government has already announced that it will make significant tax reductions over a three-year period, starting in 2003. The Swedes are also in good shape. This will eventually create a matching level of charges across the EU, adapted to the countries with the lowest level of charges. The Progress Party believes that it is neither desirable nor possible to maintain a system where price differences between neighbouring countries with a long and difficult to control common border are so large. Substantial tax reduction will therefore also have to come to Norway, not least to put an end to the significant illegal turnover we have, which brings huge profits to criminals. For example, up to November of this year, 226 000 litres of alcohol were seized, which is a new record with a good margin, suggesting that this is a growth activity. I see no reason why Norwegian citizens should not have the same right to private imports of alcohol and tobacco products as EU citizens have. It is important to clarify that the proposal concerns harmonisation with EU legislation. This means that new import limits will apply between Norway and EU countries in the same way as between EU countries, and that they do not concern the so-called duty-free quotas. This concerns goods for which a charge has been paid in an EU country. With one exception, all our neighbouring countries are members of the EU, and Norway remains as an island with strange and special rules in relation to our neighbours. For me, it is a paradox that while alcoholic beverages of known origin and of a certain quality are consumed by the inhabitants of other European countries, almost half of the spirits consumed in Norway consist of poor homeburning, distilled window washer fluids, red liquor and smuggler spirits of unknown origin. This different country I am not a follower of. I would like to include the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1810	Per Erik Monsen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1813	Our neighbouring countries Denmark, Finland and Sweden carry out extensive changes in their charging policies, especially in the area of alcohol. By 2004, the three countries will have established duty-free import quotas for, inter alia, 10 quarts of spirits, 20 quarts of liqueur wine and 90 quarts of wine. Progress towards EU rules started last year and quotas are increasing until the end of 2004. Following negotiations with the European Commission, the Swedish Government has accepted a gradual increase in the tariff quotas for alcohol. This is a necessity, believes the majority of Swedish politicians, because taxes have been highest in the Member States, with increased traffic to Denmark as a result, because the lowest charges are in the Nordic countries. As a result of the escalation of EU tariff-free tourist quotas, governments in Sweden, Denmark and Finland have been pressured to lower their alcohol charges. Here at home, there's almost nothing happening. Both in the state budget for 2000, in the revised budget for the same year and in the state budget for 2001, the workers' party promised to reduce the levy on spirits, but the results were lacking. The co-operation administration provides us with tax reductions at a level that has little or no practical significance. And we see the results. More and more Nordics are being lured into Swedish system stores to trade. The Progress Party notes that unfortunately it has been impossible to get the political majority in Norway to follow developments in Europe. As a result, we have the highest level of taxes on alcohol in the world, and we have a corresponding world record for smuggling, home burning and border trade. It seems that only an explosive development of the border trade leakage to Sweden and Denmark can bring the majority of Storting into the picture. We believe that the Christmas dimensions of the border trade will have to do all year long to bring about a change. With semi-empty grocery stores and folk-famous wine monopolies along the border, the possibility will open up to change. By first introducing import tariff-free quotas on a significant scale, it will be possible, in the next round, to bring about all the necessary tax reductions on baits at home. Then we get one thing in addition: a normal traveler will rarely be able to be apprehended for smuggling. This means that customs and police are given the opportunity to spend more time concentrating on combating international smuggling and other cross-border crime. The proposals of the Progress Party will be put to the vote today. We had hoped that at the start of a new millennium, there would be a majority in this Chamber who would support the proposal to harmonise the import quotas of travel provisions to the rules applicable throughout the European Union. But we were wrong. A majority still want to notify Norway out of the Nordic region and Europe in this area. This means that Kari and Ola Nordmann will more strongly protest against Norwegian charging policy by electing Sweden in the sweet Christmas season. This may not only happen to make household budgets, but to indicate that legislation is remote from the legal perceptions of many consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1826	The President is not going to comment on the last thing – but there are many easier ways to do it than to travel all the way to Sweden. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 1158]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1836	Then we should be ready for voting. It's going to take some time, because there's a lot of things that have to be weighed over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1843	During the debate, 34 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Eirin Fallet on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 2, 11, 12 and 22-27, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 3–7, 13–15, 18, 28 and 29, tabled by Mrs Knudsen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 8, 19 and 30, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 9, 20 and 21, by Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 10, by Eirin Fallet, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 16, 17 and 31-34, by Eli Sollied Överaas, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, proposal No. 35, from Åslaug Haga on behalf of the Centre Party In the course of the debate, proposal No. 26, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, pulled, so it won't get over. Proposals Nos. 1–34 is included on pages 104 to 120 of the vote, while proposal No. 35 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There are only a few of the minority proposals in each of the framework areas, and we start with the framework area 1. We start with the proposals No. 3–6, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests that arrangements and agreements for the financing of the information and development funds of the official organisations be wound up at the end of the tariff period.’ [[chapter. 1503]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to implement immediately the Decision of 15 June 2001 which states: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the coordination law is applied in such a way that no one can lose money on earning pension points in the social security system.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to wind up the New Opera House project.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government, at the latest in the context of the revised budget, to submit a case on the consequences and background for the removal of the ‘fucking point’ of the State Pension Fund and the basis for not making the changes applicable to those who have retired before 1 May 2000. Before the case is brought before the Court, the organisations of pensioners shall have the matter referred to them for a hearing.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1909	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal that a contractual pension can be combined with the possibility of labour income up to 1 G.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1924	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party: ‘The Board agrees to the conversion of the Institute of Labour from the Administrative Board to the Foundation with effect from 1 January 2002.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1939	There is then a vote on minority proposals in the framework area 2. We start with the proposals No. 16 and 17, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the appropriations allocated to Children and Young People’s Telephones in the 2002 budget in order to increase marketing, to provide a good contact offer for children and young people and to assess other forms of communication.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is not asking for the grant of the pediatric facilities, but to increase the earmarked grant for the pediatric areas in the 2003 budget, so that municipalities can meet their share of 30 pst. of the costs of kindergartens.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e1961	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e2991	The proposals are then put to the vote. 7 and 13–15, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 7 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e4024	The proposals are then put to the vote. 11 and 12, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative to set up a centre of expertise in the gay population in order to combat discrimination against homosexuals in society.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the appropriations allocated to the Consumer Office cover the costs of one consumer office in each State. In the event of an additional need, the Government is asked to return to the Storting in the context of the revised national budget.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e4046	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party: ‘The size will be asked by the Government to follow the development of the reported use of cash support among weak groups and, where appropriate, to ensure a nursery place for these children.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e4061	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 9, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals in the Children’s Rights Act to automatically adjust the child’s rights annually.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e4076	Then there must be a vote on minority proposals in the framework area 3. We start with the proposals No. 31-34, from the Central Party. Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to grant an operating grant to the Norwegian Youth Team of 1 million. crowns.’» Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to evaluate the loss of the arts education and to restore a scholarship scheme for arts students.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government requests the reintroduction of the earmarked contribution to the Boxes under the Revised National Budget with effect from 1 August 2002 and the further earmarked contribution to the Boxes of the 2003 Culture Budget.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to continue the grant scheme for the information activities and publications of political parties at the same level as in 2001 and to increase the allocation on top. 335 Item 76 Grants to various publications with 6.1 million. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e4108	Proposal No. 35, which has been distributed at the posts of the representatives, has been converted into a transmission proposal and then reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government withdraw measures from the Chapter. Item 320, item 60, which has nothing to do with local and regional cultural houses, and propose the corresponding sums on relevant chapters and items of the State budget in the context of the treatment of the Revised National Budget 2002’;» The President proposes that this proposal be submitted to the Government without a vote of the facts – and considers it to be acceptable. The proposals are then put to the vote. 19 and 30, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 19 reads:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e5693	The proposals are then put to the vote. 18, 28 and 29, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 18 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e7228	The proposals are then put to the vote. 22–25 and 27, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in guarantee income from 2003 and for increasing the number so that guarantee income can be awarded to far more artists.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘It is recommended that the Government assess whether the Förde International Folkemusikfestival can be given national competence centre for the dissemination of Norwegian and foreign folk music.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government, in cooperation with the states concerned, asks the Government to start work on the purchase of a new cultural boat.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the subsidy to the Norwegian Federation by 500 000 kroner.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider including an operating grant to cinematists in Bergen and Trondheim in the 2003 budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e7265	The proposals are then put to the vote. 20 and 21, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a production fund for established choreographers. The Fund shall ensure support for productions which do not fall under the criteria of the Culture Council for free performing arts.’;» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the probationary period for the Charity Language Theatre by one year. The sign language theatre should have its location to Ål also during this part of the trial period.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e7287	Then we should have voted through all the minority proposals in the three framework areas, and we should have taken the vote on the motion for a resolution. The President shall first take up the scope of section 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e8868	Under Framework Box 1, two proposals are independent of the framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e8897	The President expects the Progress Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e8909	Now we're dealing with the frame range 2 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e9979	So we're left with area 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e11570	Then we would have finished voting under case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e12248	Here the Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e12264	Twelve proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 2 and 10, by Heidi Grande Røys, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, 3 and 11, by Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 4, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 5, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 6, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party, Left and Coastal Party proposal No. 7, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 8, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 9, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, proposal No. 12, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party The vote will be taken first on the minority proposals and then on the vote on the motion for a resolution. There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2002 State budget is authorised under: Chapter.PostObjective:Croner574Contributions to municipal debtors90Currency 12000000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e12345	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3 and 11, from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e13114	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2 and 10 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e13858	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Board asks the Government, at the latest in the context of the 2002 Revised National Budget, to propose that the entire proceeds of the conversion of Oslo Børs be set aside in a fund outside the annual framework of the State budget and that the Fund be set up as its own foundation with its own statutes and governance.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e13874	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e14606	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e14621	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2002 State budget is authorised under: Chapter.PostObjective:Croner2410 State Loan Fund for Education [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5310)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e14669	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6, from the Right Party, the Christian Party, the Left Party, and the Coast Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2002 State budget is authorised under: Cape TownPostObjective:Croner161Industry development [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3161)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e14715	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2002 State budget is authorised under: Cape Town Post Purpose:Croner2412The Norwegian State House Bank [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2412)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e14778	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2002 State budget is authorised under: Chapter.PostObjective:Croner2420 State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2420)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e14843	Then there is a vote on the minority proposals, and we shall turn to the vote on the motion for a resolution. We vote first over Framework Area 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e15827	The Committee's position C remains to be called into question and decisions are taken outside the framework areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e16715	During the debate, Mr Monsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to harmonise the import quotas in the provisions on the freedom of customs duty on travel equipment and luggage, such as alcohol and tobacco, with EU rules.’ Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Party of Progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-14.ana.ud1994e16737	Then we finished the voting on the matters that are listed on today's map. Before we go to case no. 9, Unit, for the sake of order, the President would like to refer to a reference to what took place during the big debate on 14 December 1946: The budget for 1946-47 was adopted unanimously today, without any aberrations, prior proposals and without debate. [[laughs in the hall]] “There’s a lot that has changed, but not everything!
