ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e28	So we're going into a broken interpellation debate. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e33	I have now had three hours to think through the answer, and I am still not sure if I have become so much wiser. It may be because of me, but it may also be because of the answer. Here I actually choose to think that this is because of the answer. Governments were largely concerned with the physical working environment, and he referred to previous decisions where this was in focus in many ways. It was a good physical work environment that was the starting point for the debate and decision in 1995. This is good enough, but if we see environmental legislation in general in this country, there is a link between the physical working environment and participation. If we base it on the Working Environment Act, it is suggested that the parties, the employees, should choose their representatives, they should have their selection and in that way exercise co-determination. I imagine that the provisions we will have in the education sector will be based on the same reading. This means that there must be a number of bodies where students and students are represented, where they exercise their participation, and where they also have the opportunity to address matters, to appeal and to exercise influence on their own working environment. The proposal before us has not taken up any of this. There is a formulation that students and students will be allowed to believe something, they will be allowed to express themselves, but in addition to that, there is no active participation or participation by students and students. And it has to be essentially, a core point, if we're going to make one of these things work. If a law is to be a break in the work of students, it is necessary to establish bodies where students and students are represented. I assume that the Council of State also agrees. This is also about training in democracy, taking responsibility and seeing contexts. Then the Council of State was subject to sanctions, that it is somewhat unclear what kind of sanctioning system to establish, or whether there should be any sanctions. In the area of work environment legislation in general, we have the Labour Inspectorate as a body. I believe that the Labour Inspectorate must also be able to have a responsibility in relation to work environment regulations for students and students. So it should not be more difficult than that: that one uses the established system also in relation to this work environment legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e46	The discussion about the students' working environment can be about a lot of things. It may be the physical working environment, having fresh and good air to breathe in, avoiding asthma and allergies, and having an indoor climate to live with. Of course, it may also be about the social work environment, avoiding bullying, avoiding harassment, feeling safe in school everyday life, being respected and having a quality of life that we want all children in Norway to have. It may also be about the influence that individual students have, both at school as a whole and at the learning situation in their daily lives – that they have an influence on their own teaching, on their manner of living and on their quality. All of this we have to somehow try to take care of. Whether it is appropriate to incorporate all of this into one work environment law, or whether we are going to use the legislation that we already have in the Training Act, is more a question of technique than a question of content. The Training Act already contains a number of provisions to ensure school participation for students. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Reikvam, that students' participation must be strengthened, that students' ability to give good feedback on their school days needs to be strengthened, that students have the opportunity to assess the quality in such a way that the students' signals come to the individual teacher, to the principal, to the municipality and to the school authorities, so that we can use the students' experiences of the quality of their everyday school life as a tool to make the school much better. Single lots, including: Those who run Oslo want to spend a lot of resources creating an inspectorate to study the quality of each school. My counter-proposal against this is that we use all the inspectors in Norwegian school, namely the students themselves, who are present in all classrooms, in all school farms and on all school roads, and who experience all teachers, that we use their experiences and their experiences as an important tool and a tool for better quality in Norwegian school. Then we need a huge lift to improve the physical working environment. It is bad to hear reports from schools that lack resources to clean up their buildings, so that mushrooms and mugs lead to buildings being closed. Here we have to do a huge lift together. Then there's one thing to create rules – and that's what we're going to try with a work environment law that ensures the type of physical work environment – but the most important thing, and I think that the representative of Rikvam and I agree on, is to ensure that each municipality has an economy that allows you to afford to clean up the schools. That's what I think the autumn elections are going to be about. Are we going to use the wealth we now have to give massive tax credits to people who may already have enough, or are we going to use that wealth to make sure that all students get a proper working environment, and that we get a school that has the quality we need, and that we make sure that every student gets a proper education? I am convinced that a broad majority of the Norwegian people want the last.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e53	It's really quite alarming that we're getting an interpellant debate on a consultation draft for a new law. Although I realize that it is annoying that things have taken time, it is a bit alarming. So we're at a stage where opinions are now being gathered, and it's therefore not right for the Christian People's Party to decide on the draft hearing itself. First we'll see what the Government concludes with and transmits to Stortinget. The last article by the Council of State may have given some signals that the final legislative proposal will not be as designed here. However, I would like to comment briefly on the following: the Christian People's Party chose to vote against the decision last May, because the economic consequences of a work environment law for students and students were not clear. The intention to ensure a good working environment for students and students is shared. Now it seems that what many thought would be a boost to the school's working environment through a law-enforcement, will only be a promotion of a regulation of law. As far as I can see from the draft consultation at least, such a law will not impose any new obligations on municipalities and school owners. The Council of State spoke of the need for a huge leap forward for the physical environment. But then the Council of State statements along with the draft consultation show that it may not be the law that ensures the physical environment, but that it is actually the resource effort that needs to be done. It remains to be seen whether the Government concludes as proposed by the draft consultation, but for those who were behind the decision in the Stortingen last year – the Workers’ Party, SV and Right – there must be an improper cross of thought and it puts the decision in a strange light.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e64	The school's working conditions and working environment are central and important themes. We, as in half a generation, and so it has been in school, have listened to the Working Party and SV's strong rhetoric in this area, at least in the periods in which the Working Party has been in opposition. But then it's the way from rhetoric to action. In order to be completely honest – and there should be one thing in this room – I am very much in doubt about the working party's real will to do something to follow up its own rhetoric. I have a suspicion that this will go the same way as the Workers' Party's promises when it came to working conditions for the teachers. When the Workers' Party had finally come to the Right and SV meeting in our desire to stimulate teacher recruitment through higher wages, they had to put on a little extra to overcome us. And in the Evening Post on February 23rd last year, we read the following: ‘In addition’ — and it is in addition to wages — ‘App proposes different measures to improve the working conditions of teachers. They are calculated to cost SEK 1.5 billion each year in a five-year period.» And Rune Kristiansen, who was the interviewer in connection with that case, made it clear that ‘this is a power cut from Ap.’s side. We've seen very little about this money, and it seems that there are also little concrete plans about action behind the proposals that the Council of State is now proposing. That being said, I agree with the representative Lyngstad that it is quite clear that a law cannot fix this. It is a matter of resources, and it is a clear responsibility for the school owner himself – municipality, county and state – to ensure good physical and other working conditions in the school. What worries me most about the debate we've had is the half-hearted wise people who have come through a long time from the Workers' Party to deploy resources for the physical environment from the state to the municipality and county. If there is something that is good for municipalities, it's called an expectation-based adjustment: if they realize that the government wants to go in and pay the value, they'll stop all the work that's going on when it comes to the working environment. I would challenge the Council of State to say a clear yes or no – whatever the answer is, it is better than a well – whether the Labour Party really thinks something about going in with financial support, or whether a mere saying is that this is the school owner's responsibility. What was said about inspectorate and quality raising in the Oslo School in relation to the investments is with respect to reporting fairly incorrectly. No municipality has been close to investing as much as Oslo — in recent years — in reparation of schools, investment in buildings and other physical improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e81	The centre party has prevention as a central theme, both in its current and in its new mainstreaming programme. Efforts to prevent children’s growing-up conditions, especially and people’s health in general, could save individuals from distress and ill health, while saving society’s financial outlays. Therefore, much more attention needs to be paid to prevention, in order to reduce the need for repair measures. Then increased economic priorities are needed. Everyone agrees that good growth conditions should be ensured for children, but there is no political agreement on the measures to be taken to achieve these important objectives. Children’s growing-up conditions extend across a wide range: home environment, local environment, nursery, school and school pathways and other child and youth settings. On average, young people live in schoolrooms most of the day, in many cases in overfilled classrooms and other activity rooms. There are still alarming messages from parents, student organisations and municipalities describing the unsustainable situation, which we also heard from the Council of State, with very many poor premises. So it's a big aftertaste. Governments have baptized their school effort FRISK. He wants a FRISK school. Then I think there's got to be a take-off from more than just the Council of State and the Department. The Centre Party took an initiative at Sigurd Manneråk during the previous period and made proposals for a major report on the working and learning environment for primary and secondary school pupils and teachers. The central party did not obtain a majority for this, but fortunately the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV constituted a majority in order to draw up provisions in the law that protect the physical working environment of pupils, in line with the provisions applicable to ordinary workers. It's been at least four years since this happened, and we see that we haven't gotten that far yet – unfortunately. The working party in the opposition was very stressed to establish a work environment law for the school. But after 9 March 2000, it has been quieter. I wonder if the Workers' Party today is satisfied with the Government's proposal, which has now been sent out to the hearing. The student organisations think it's thin stuff. Legal provisions are of little help if resources are not available. The main reason for this is to ensure that municipalities and county councils are provided with sufficient resources. The budgetary proposals, both now revised and for the autumn, will provide answers as to whether there is a willingness to invest in this important area in order to ensure better growth for young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e98	Formally, as many people say, we are holding a debate on a hearing in the middle of the hearing. However, it is a fact that what has been sent to the hearing has a much lower level of ambition than the rhetoric that the Council of State used with great FRISK last year. What happens is that health, environmental and safety regulations are proposed by law. On the part of the Ministry, it is said in the hearing that it is not expected to have significant financial consequences. Let me say it this way: the council went FRISKt out of the jump, but the country on the ball. What determines whether or not a new round is going to happen depends entirely on whether or not one comes out of the hearing in a proper way. When this matter was up last year, it was known that the left also voted against it, because we did not have an overview of what it would cost. We wanted to have it on the table, so we didn't end up being lifting breakers. Now it remains to be seen how the hearing finally becomes for the Council of State. I am very concerned that we should get a law that goes on health, environment and safety in school, but that it should not only include, as several others have been involved, purely physical matters, but also participation. I see, among other things: that the Norwegian Student Organisation has promoted sensible views on this. They have even given me examples in some conversations that if you have the choice, it is better that the windows are so real that they can be opened and closed again than that you make large, expensive investments. It can actually lead to both a better learning environment and a better indoor climate than many other solutions. So listening to people who have insight where they are is very important. This is also the case in this debate, for example: from the Council of State, come into a style that I would say is FRISKt caricature, among others. about Oslo. The councils are consistently talking about the Right, although it's the Left who has the School Office in Oslo, and he's talking about the Inspectorates. He had in his time, as far as I know, a shocking experience on a study trip to England. You can't believe that everyone else is going to copy the stupidest of what you do abroad! On behalf of the Left, I fully agree that the best inspectors are students, teachers and parents. And it's like when the Left has the school office in Oslo, it's going to shape school policy. A City Council of Right, Left and Christian People's Party is not the same as a City Council of Right. That I think must be a simple fact to absorb. It's possible that the Workers' Party, as a party that's not used to ruling with others, doesn't understand how it looks, but those of us who are used to doing it know that it actually means not only obligations for the smallest, but also a good deal of rights. In the case of Oslo School, I will conclude by saying that under the workers' party's glorious rule of this city, the investments were at the start of the Gerhardsen era of 19 million. kr in the year, they rose to a quarter of a billion at the end, and in the last years, by a majority of civil parties, they have been lying at a billion because they had to take a maintenance seat again. It is therefore not possible to describe reality in the way that the Council of State has often done. There's a lot to do in Oslo, but the most important thing about Oslo is that the Council of State should respond to letters from the Municipality of Oslo and care more about Oslo school. It is also part of the schoolwork in Norway; it is taken up in other contexts from this pulpit earlier. Then I would ask him to stop referring to the school policy in Oslo as the ‘Higher School Policy’. It is governed by the Left Party, and if the Council of State has something to postpone on it, he is welcome to express the criticism – with an open vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e117	The majority decision of the majority has not been taken in time – everyone can agree on that, no matter how we turn it around and turn it around. The need for a work environment law for pupils and students is great. We agree on that, too, I think, especially if the majority continues to doubt a system, an organisational form and a financing model that we know is not working, and that will eventually disappear by itself. The main problem relates to indoor climate and air quality, said the Council of State. Yeah, and why? The answer is simple: because over time the school owner has not prioritised this work, the task as a school owner has not been taken seriously. And there's nothing that's happened in the last ten years, it's happened over time as long as both 20 and 30 years: School buildings that could have been magnificent today are falling. The next problem is related to the psychosocial environment for students. Once again, quite correctly. But why? Much of the responsibility lies with the adults who surround the children in school. When adults are unable to set limits, keep their children within limits and give them the necessary social skills, it actually goes on. There's nothing new in this, there's nothing revolutionary. I've even said it before. The Progress Party has taken on board the consequences of the legislative and regulatory shortcomings by proposing, with the hesitantness of proposing that training institutions be independent legal entities with responsible governance and with good user representation. If it had been done, the representative would have taken good care of Rikham's affairs. But this he goes against. Understand the one who can. So the council says to secure the finances of each municipality, that would be a good cure. Eia, we were there! I've been in local government, I've been responsible for this economy – it's not that long ago either – and I heard this the time I sat there. The Christian People’s Party could not participate in this because the economic consequences were not clear in advance! Well, in a way they were, because the Children's Ombudsman informed well before the municipal election campaign that there was a formidable aftermath in this sector; at least it was guaranteed at 12 billion kroner on a national basis. Here I just want to point out that there are a lot of pigs out there going – wild – in this forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e134	The President thought we had not gone into the agrarian! We will then continue with the interpellation debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e137	The Education Committee has spent a lot of its time today, but when so many people have spoken in this debate, of course I have not succeeded either, because this is a very important matter. I agree with those who have said that resources are the most important, and then the municipalities must have an economy that enables them to meet the objectives of a good working environment in school. However, although resources are important, it is also very important to establish some statutory rights for students, as the employees do. As many people have been involved, this case has become a repeat in Stortinget. It is now about five years since the Grand Duchy took the decision to which reference has been made today that the Government should draw up legislation to protect the physical working environment of the pupils, in line with the provisions applicable to ordinary workers. Finally, a concrete legislative proposal has been sent to the hearing. The representative, Reikvam, has highlighted the objective of strengthening students’ participation and strengthening students’ rights to participate in and design a working environment. I therefore believe it is right to include the work environment regulations in the Training Act, so that we can see the learning environment for the students as a whole. I hope that this can be a matter we can stand together on. I hope that we don't need to have very many debates to discuss the situation in that municipality, or the county from which you're elected, because the right to a good working environment for the students should be a matter of which we can stand together. It should be a matter of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e149	The debate has been interesting and exciting. I'm recording the disagreement between the Oslo representatives about who runs the Oslo School. It may not have much to do with this particular case, but we take note that they disagree a little bit about who runs the school in Oslo. If there can be any comfort for Oslo, the Children's Ombudsman has estimated that one must invest approx. 10 billion kroner if you want to be able to meet the regulations. Oslo is the worst example of what the Children's Ombudsman has registered. I don't know if there was any comfort, but it was at least for information to those who want the honor of running the Oslo School. So to Synnevne Konglevoll and to stand together: I thought we would also stand together. We had a decision from May last year, where we asked for a bill that the Storting could deal with and adopt. We asked it to come before Christmas. We didn't get that. Then we've heard that something was going to happen during the winter. We didn't see anything else either. That's the starting point and the background for this coming up as an interpellation. Therefore, it is not very alarming that it was the way to raise it up again, although it now turns out that there is a draft out at the hearing. After the Council's reply to me on the second post, I have to say that I am a little more optimistic. In the first post, when he read out his manuscript, it was not so much exciting. But when he came in free dressing, it became obviously a little bit more wit, a little more speed and a little more visionary. If the visionary, what came out in his second post, is what will shape the work in the department further after the hearing replies have come in, I am somewhat more optimistic than I was when he read his completed manuscript. My recommendation to the Council of State is that he takes with him the visionary – yes, I may use the word ‘visionary’, but I became a little optimistic as he took up a little bit – in the further work and bases it on the proposal that he might, not only possibly, with which he must return to the Storting in some way. If he does, I think we can figure out something that we can stand together about. Then I think we can also make the breakbone that the students need. Nor do I believe that a law will change the working environment situation of students and that the working environment will be improved by a law. Of course it costs money. But that's precisely giving those who are there, a tool in the work to improve their own situation. What lies there is training for democracy, for commitment, for a law of its own. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e165	It's been too long, sir. Reikvam, it's free minutes!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e168	It is nice that the representative Rikvam thought it became a little more visionary when I went outside the script. It tends to be much more expensive when you go outside the script. They say in the department that every time my predecessor, State Councillor Lilletun, took off the glasses, it would be nice to spend $50,000! Then there were some promises that were not included in the script and were approved by the civil service. What we can see is that we are now working on the process of a work environment law. If the proposal from SV, the Labour Party and the Right had been voted down at the time, which some then voted in favour, we would not have been going on. It's that we have a consultation draft out now, which makes that, for example. The student organisations can now make their contributions to a concrete process which will end up in a proposal for a Labour Environment Act. The final proposal may not be identical to what has been put to the hearing – it is the closest purpose of a hearing that we should have an opportunity to get different recordings and that the actors can participate in a real process. So we're on. As has been said here, at the end of the day, not only are laws and regulations crucial, but you have the opportunity to follow them. Then the local economy is absolutely crucial. I registered that the representative Dørum was a little offended that the left did not get the credit for the situation in Oslo School. They'll be happy to. Then we can say to the teachers at Bjoråsen school, who today threaten to quit because they don't have enough resources: go to the left! Then we can say to those who are concerned about the SFO prizes in Oslo: Go to the left! Then we can say to those who are concerned about the school situation for Smestad school: It is the Left who is responsible! It reminds me a little of my history teacher in high school who had been visiting Scotland, and the janitor said that here the Vikings had herded, and it was Danish Vikings who had herded. Then he took the word in protest and said: it was not me, it was Norwegian Vikings who had herded here! The most sensible thing in such situations is often to keep your mouth shut. I believe that when Jan Petersen is on TV and says that the situation in Oslo School is good, there are few students and get teachers and get parents in this capital who recognize themselves. It's the municipal economy that's crucial, and to the right, the answer is that 40 billion dollars in tax bills, which is the long-term goal of the Right, is to give 40 billion dollars less to clean up schools for, to bet on teacher's wages for, to bet on equipment for the students for. Because we can't end up in a situation where we're going to lay down a nursing home to clean up the schools, where we're going to cancel home help to pay teachers, or where we're going to lay down gyms to provide proper indoor climate in school. This is related. Every penny in tax bills, unless you want to spend more oil money, and I have recorded that the Right does not want, gives a penny less in welfare, in school, in care for the elderly, and in a real community economy. This year we got a record increase in the municipal economy of NOK 5 billion. I hope we can keep doing that, so we can really get this in place, because that's what we need. We need to give students the opportunity to influence, and we need to give them a proper working environment. I think that's one thing that it's possible to get a majority for the 10th of September this autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e183	Case No. So 5 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e195	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of the members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e206	For the first time, the Stortinget for treatment has its own notification of gay and lesbian living conditions in Norway. From that perspective, the debate we are now having is a historical debate. It shows in my opinion that Norwegian society is now taking the gay and lesbian groups seriously. The reason for this communication was a report by NOVA on behalf of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs in 1998. This survey is the largest scientific work done in this area in the Nordic region. There were three main issues to be addressed through this work: 1st@item: inlistbox Has the life situation changed for homosexuals and lesbians over the past decade?2. Do lesbian women and gay men have worse living conditions and quality of life than the rest of the population?3. Are there special groups within the gay or lesbian population that have special problems to be taken into account? In view of the first question, whether conditions have improved over the past 20 years, the study concludes that significant changes and improvements have occurred in many areas. For example, the study shows that many more are open about their orientation today than before. This leads in the next round to the fact that multiple gay and lesbian associations can also be recorded at the same time as heterophilic and gay/lesbian friends. With regard to the issue of general living conditions, the NOVA survey shows that, in relation to the general population, there is a higher proportion of homosexuals and lesbians with high income and high education. The study also provides a basis for saying that homosexuals and lesbians participate to a greater extent in cultural and recreational activities than the rest of the population. The gay or lesbian population also stands out in a positive sense by having a stronger social network than the rest of the population. Individually, these are very positive results, but I think it is right to point out that there may have been a distorted sample that forms the basis for this survey. In fact, those who have taken part in the study have either made contact with the researchers themselves, or they have been tipped off about the study of friends. So there are things that indicate that there is an overrepresentation of what can be called resource-intensive homophiles and lesbians – that these are the main weights of the sample in the survey. I believe this is an important element to include in the further work on the matter. The third question you wanted to ask was whether there are special groups that need attention. The study showed clearly that the greatest problems are among young homosexuals and lesbians. Young homosexuals and lesbians under the age of 25 come out worse than the quality of life goals they operated on. This was most clearly expressed with regard to mental health. In view of this, the main focus of the communication is on this particular group, young gay and lesbian. I would also point out that the investigation showed that gays and lesbians as a group are getting worse when it comes to being subjected to violence or fear of violence against their own people. The government responds by proposing changes to the criminal law. These are proposals for amendments supported by an overall committee. Based on this research, the Communication provides a broad and thorough description of what it means to be gay or lesbian in Norway today. The Communication proposes a wide range of measures such as: involve proposals for legislative changes, increased information measures, increased funding for research and more support measures directly targeted at homosexuals and lesbians. Let me say that this message is a "smooth message" in many ways. It clearly shows that in recent years, Norwegian society has had a positive development in its relation to homophilics and homosexuals. Nevertheless, I think it is that clear values and still clear political decisions need to be made to create an equivalent quality of life for the gays as a group. When we're discussing gay people's living conditions in Norway today, I think it's right to believe that it's only been 30 years since sexual intercourse between men was punishable. So as late as 1972, homosexual men were criminals. We have gone a long way to where we are today. Of the political barriers that have been broken during this time period, I would particularly mention the Partnership Act, a law that was not only controversial between the parties, but also within the various parties. From 1993 until now it seems that we have had a marked change of attitude in the population, and today there is little or no discussion related to this law. This, in my view, shows very clearly the need for courageous and forward-looking political decisions. This staging message takes a clear value position. We want gay and lesbians without fear of punishment to be able to live out love to people of the same sex. Likewise, of course, gay and lesbian encounters with equivalency and respect. We know that there has been widespread discrimination against homosexuals in Norwegian society, and we know that it still exists. This is in conflict with the values of the Workers' Party, and we can never accept this form of intolerance. Therefore, we propose changes to the penal code and to Section 55 A of the Working Environment Act, a proposal that I will come back to and comment on in more detail at the end of my post. As mentioned earlier, the NOVA study found that there are indications that homosexuals and lesbians are more exposed to violence than the rest of the population. Although the evidence is uncertain, there is much to suggest that we have had serious violent crimes in recent years, among other things. killing, where the victim's sexual orientation seems to have been the motive for the violence. Of course, these are matters that need to be taken seriously. Therefore, the Government proposes to consider amending Section 232 of the Criminal Code so that acts of violence motivated by a person’s sexual orientation can operate in a criminally sharp direction. A similar change will be considered in Section 292 of the Criminal Code. In particular, young homosexuals and lesbians experience their own situation as difficult. There's a lot of evidence that it's the so-called out phase that's hard, i.e. the process by which young people go to clarify their own sexual identity and then take the consequences of this recognition and face friends and family. A wide range of measures are proposed to remedy this situation. Among other things, I mention: that it is proposed to develop information material on youth and sexuality in which the theme homophilis is included. This material is being developed with a view to helping parents to gain an understanding of children and the development of young people’s identity. Similarly, it is proposed to develop material specifically aimed at persons working with children and young people, recreational managers, sports managers and other persons working with children and young people. Furthermore, it is important to stress the importance of the school in facilitating the healthy development of its own identity. The school is a meeting place where large parts of the population are reached, and the importance of the school in this context is very important. The school curriculum provides clear guidelines for the inclusion of the homophilic theme in school context. The Ministry of the Church, Education and Research must follow up and ensure that this is done. It is essential that the general level of knowledge among teachers meeting children and young people be strengthened. This will be done, among others. by developing their own material aimed at teachers, but also by providing for action at the institutions which train teachers at all levels of the education sector. As mentioned earlier, this is the first broad review of gay and lesbian living conditions in Norway. A fact that has been revealed during the work on this communication is that the knowledge is not good enough. The government gives signals that in a number of areas it wants to launch research. I just want to point to two of the areas where there's obviously too little knowledge. There are particular reasons to believe that attention should be paid to how lesbians and homosexuals in immigrant communities experience their daily lives. We know that the Koran is perfectly clear in its condemnation of homophilis, and we also know that homosexuality is prohibited by law in most Muslim countries. The Committee points out that issues such as coercive marriages, traditional thinking about gender roles and a strong sense of loyalty to the family, in the context of which we are now talking, can give rise to serious problems. We can't categorically say that that's the way it is. We just don't know enough. Further research is therefore necessary. It is also true that some people do not identify themselves as heterosexuals or as homosexuals. They fall in a way between two chairs. The knowledge of bisexuality is also insufficient, and the majority of the Committee points to this in one of its comments. I have stated that this is a value message. Obviously, this may be expressed by the government of Stoltenberg categorically taking away from the healing of homofiles. Instead, it is noted that homosexuality and bisexuality are normal variations of complex human sexuality. It is with regret that I note that the Christian People's Party, as the only party, cannot support a remark that states that attempts to heal are to perceive as an infringement of human dignity. The Christian People's Party has a special note expressing the desire for research aimed at finding the causes of homophilia. In my opinion, it is difficult to perceive this in any other way than that the Christian People's Party is expressing that homosexuality is undesirable. Personally, and on behalf of the Workers' Party, I will distance myself from this view. I perceive it briefly and well as an offensive, cold gust of the past. I had hoped that as a society we had come past this stage. Now I see that the time is running a little bit away from me. I will briefly comment on the individual issue that has perhaps aroused the most debate in connection with this communication, namely the Government's proposal to amend the Working Environment Act § 55a. It has been produced as an intervention in the Church's own affairs. I will take a strong distance from that point of view and point out that it is still that the Church is going to employ its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e263	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e266	When I read the results of the NOVA report two years ago, I did not see it as a message of joy. It did something to me. It is not acceptable that any human being, regardless of age, sex, belief or sexual orientation, should live in such a desperate situation of life that it feels as if the only way out is to take his own life. When there is evidence that this is actually the case, we all have to take responsibility for doing something about that situation. That was the responsibility of the government of Bondevik and the then State Council of Reply City Haugland by ordering and initiating the work on this communication. Unfortunately, I have recorded that the debate that followed – even after the big message came – has been marked by harsh fronts. It has not served those who actually have this heavy life situation, as the NOVA report and later the Storing Message depict. We all have a responsibility for how this debate is conducted. The focus must always be on better living conditions and quality of life for lesbians and gays, and then I will add: especially young lesbians and gays. Unfortunately, quite a lot of attention has been shifted away from the central one, when the government in this big message proposed to intervene directly into the Church's inner life. And now the representative is going to have the opportunity to elaborate a little bit more on it. Because it is difficult to fully understand the Government's intentions with the proposal to remove the derogation provided for in Section 55a of the Working Environment Act. Unfortunately, this shows poor judgment and a blind belief that changes in laws are the way to change attitudes. Thus, the most important thing in this matter, namely human dignity and respect for the individual human being, is forgotten. In meeting all people, no matter who we are, respect and tolerance must always be at the root of it. Theological evaluations must be taken by the Church itself, even in the future. We like to discuss church politics with the Workers' Party, but then there must be church policy that is the theme. Is not the representative afraid that these harsh fronts have overshadowed what the message was about, the living conditions and quality of life, especially for the young lesbians and homosexuals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e275	When I said in my post that this is a message of joy in many ways, it was because it can actually be demonstrated that there has been a positive development in the Norwegian society in terms of attitudes towards homosexuals and homophiles. I actually think this is something that it's okay that it's said from this pulpit. But it has not been said that the job is done, far away. We all have to take responsibility, says the representative, and the answer given by the Christian People's Party is incredible enough to put a separate note in the setting when it comes to healing. It is quite amazing that the Christian People's Party, in a world characterized by hatred and violence and war, manages to make love between two people a major problem. It's totally incomprehensible to me, and I don't understand that it's possible to stand on this pulpit and attack the Workers' Party when we know what kind of history the Christian People's Party has in relation to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e282	First, I would like to stress that we agree with the Workers' Party on the view of positions in the Church. So I want to get to some of what Frank Willy Larsen said about the NOVA study, that it might have a different basis. Then I understood that the credibility of it could somehow be weakened, but I don't think that's exactly what he meant. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, after the NOVA study, solid research has been carried out, several research studies in other countries as well, which support the results of the NOVA report. So let's not weaken its credibility. Then I agree that the job is not done. In all areas where we believe it is important to initiate action, we suggest that we have action plans. SV has also done so in this case. We want an action plan that can commit us even more strongly to taking on the job that needs to be done in all areas of society, and I wonder why not the Workers' Party can help to support it. When it comes to changing some of the paragraphs in the penal code, the government of the message says it should consider it. Changing those paragraphs is something I fully agree with in order to ensure the legal certainty of gay and lesbians. I wonder if the Labour Party will not vote in favour of the proposal that we also have to ask the Government to submit as soon as possible a proposal to amend the penal code § 232 and § 292. The representative also said that it is important to take seriously the ‘come out’ phase. In that phase, the young people's gay phone will mean a terrible lot. It is a low-threshold service that we want to make as much as possible available. Will we also consider the proposal we have made on Homofile's Youth Phone?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e295	I realized that there were three relatively specific issues, action plan, criminal law and telephone. I'll try to take it in that order. On the issue of getting a separate action plan on this issue, we have come to the conclusion that we do not need another action plan. We need action, and there are measures listed in this big message. That's the answer I can give you. We don't need another action plan. We need actual action. As far as criminal law is concerned, we do not need to vote for something that the government has said it intends to assess. That's the answer to that. With regard to the phone, we have also carefully assessed it. But the fact today is that it costs 20 cents per cent. my calling the phone that is there today. Then our assessment is that in many ways it will be a selection proposal more than anything else. For our part, therefore, there are many more important measures in the communication, as it is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e306	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e309	When the NOVA report on the situation of homosexuals came two years ago, it sent shock waves into the political environments. Although something was already known, the report revealed a series of alarming conditions that made it necessary to take a much more comprehensive approach from the authorities. Not least, it made a strong impression to hear that one in four homosexuals under the age of 24 has tried to take their own life. The most serious finding was that suicidal thoughts and suicide attempts are more common in lesbians and homosexuals than in others. The report also showed that lesbians and homosexuals have poorer health, more frequent anxiety and depression, and more frequent use of alcohol and drugs than is the case in the rest of the population. At the same time, the report shows that lesbians and gays are not a uniform, weak group. The average level of education for survey participants is higher than that of the general population, and they have good networks of friendships. We have a general social problem when attitudes towards fellow people have the consequences of the NOVA report. The feeling of isolation and solitude, of wanting to get away from an unbearable situation, of despondency with the future and of difficulties in accepting themselves as lesbian/homofil were the four most difficult motives given for the attempted suicide. This is the back carpet for St.meld. No 25 on the living conditions and conditions of life of lesbians and homosexuals who are now being treated. The Christian People's Party mainly supports the action-oriented strategy set by the Government in the message. If this is perceived as a message of joy by those who are most affected by it, I hope we can enjoy ourselves together. These measures are intended to remedy the situation identified by the report. I refer to the central government of the Christian People’s Party in an opinion of its meeting on 26 February this year, among other things. states that the Christian People's Party will give priority to measures contributing to better quality of life and health and increased self-respect among lesbians and homosexuals. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party sees action against young lesbians and homosexuals as a particularly priority challenge and shows that human dignity and respect for the individual are at the heart of Christian People's Party's policies. The Christian People's Party believes that all people have a right to be met with respect. Good quality of life, health, self-respect, co-human protection and social recognition are fundamental values in the life situation of all humans. In line with this, the Christian People's Party emphasises in its comments the need for increased cooperation between the public and non-governmental organisations working among homosexuals in order to take action in relation to the strengthening of health and the prevention of suicide, the strengthening of social networks and the prevention of drug addiction. Public spending depends on the resources and competences of non-governmental organisations to maximise their impact. The Christian People's Party wants to strengthen non-governmental organisations, including LLH, working to improve the quality of life and the quality of life of lesbians and gays. In particular, this applies to the voluntary work of young people. We will also underline the importance of information measures at school that can contribute to self-respect among students while at the same time counteracting discriminatory attitudes. Information and action on lesbians and gays must take account of the fact that this is not a uniform group. And it is not least important to strengthen the Advisory Service for gay and lesbians. I am pleased that there is a broad majority for most important measures to improve social respect and security for homosexuals and lesbians. This includes everything from changing the penal code to better ensuring homosexuals against acts of violence, promoting special measures against homosexuals with a minority background and targeting the strengthening of preventive health work, to working for more open and acceptable attitudes to homosexuals and lesbians in the workplace. When I said that the Christian People's Party essentially supports the action-oriented strategy in the message, it does not mean that we are behind everything that is said in the message, nor on the action page. The Christian People's Party opposes the Government's proposal to amend Section 55(A) of the Working Environment Act, which gives religious communities the right to make special demands on employees when justified by the nature of the position. We are pleased with the initiative taken by the High Representative Trond Helleland, which led to a majority in the Committee voting against the Government's proposals on this point. The Christian People's Party sees it as important that the Storting here clearly confirms that the Norwegian Church is a religious community in line with others, and respects its right to decide for itself whether persons living in gay life can be added to married positions. We point to the fact that similar provisions also exist in international conventions, exempting from the general requirement of equal treatment in working life in relation to churches and organisations based on faith and outlook on life. I would also like to refer to a letter from the Council of Churches to the Stortinget, dated 23 May of this year, where the Council rejects a claim in the Storing Notice that the Church allegedly discriminates on the basis of sexual orientation, cf. the wording of the notification, which shall read as follows: ‘Sexual information shall not prevent the inclusion in the Norwegian Church.’ In its letter, the Council of Churches states that: ‘sexual orientation shall not prevent the addition to the Norwegian Church. What the 1997 Church Meeting’s decision says is that people living in gay life cannot be added to marriageed positions in the church. This is justified by the relationship with Christian ethics.» It is important, in the view of the Christian People's Party, that the decision-making authority in this matter is left to the Church's own organs, as in other religious communities. As you know, there is an ongoing debate about this also going on within the Church. A legislative directive by the authorities could also have a negative impact on this debate. Here the Government and the Workers' Party show an unusually poor judgment. Then there is a repetition in several chapters that we still lack research-based knowledge to be able to target the actions and remedy the negative conditions identified by the NOVA report. This is completely in agreement with the KrF, and we have agreed that such research is being carried out. A relationship that has aroused a certain discussion in the media is whether this should also include the cause issue. The government has written a long chapter on this in the message, stressing that this has not found any final clarification. In other words, the reasons why some are gay and others are not are still unknown, and the Christian People's Party has from this added to a brief remark that research should also include this. However, the Communication points out that the focus of research in recent years has shifted from the explanation aspect to ‘to be homosexual’, while the attempt to find an explanation of many is seen as ‘uninteresting, and in worst cases as an expression of a discriminatory attitude’. It is difficult to understand that continued research into causality in this context can be perceived as discriminatory at all. I've never considered research-based knowledge to be a threat. A comment by the majority of the Committee also calls for more research into bisexuality. Therefore, it seems rather strange that research into the causality of homophilis should reflect a discriminatory approach. On the contrary, we think it could be to meet some of those who are struggling with these difficult questions. What we're looking for is just more knowledge. I honestly didn't think it would be necessary to experience this discriminatoryly. Apart from the conditions I have mentioned here, the Christian People's Party ends up dealing with most of the measures in the message. In terms of part of what is said in various discussion chapters, we probably have some reservations. However, it would lead too far here to go into the individual elements. I just want to name it as, among other things, about bisexuality, about attempts to change sexual orientation, etc. First of all, I refer to our remarks. Finally, I would add that as a political party, the Christian People's Party has no point of healing. Political parties should not address theological issues like this, and we believe that the majority here has gone too far. Nor shall it be hidden that much of the disagreement is due to the fact that the Christian People's Party has a different view of the Partnership Act. I want us to respect each other even if we have different points of view. The experience of ‘shall be taken’ for having trodden on, discriminated against or in any way infringing people because of sexual orientation, which we have sometimes labeled in media debates, is incomprehensible. I hope it can be done in the course of the discussion on a factual and fundamental level, where it belongs. If the Christian People's Party has been accused of having a condemnatory attitude toward homosexuals, I'm sorry. It's hard to recognize in that picture some people draw of the Christian People's Party in this area. I'd like to ask, is there a great need for scapegoats? We should all take responsibility for the degrading and negative attitudes of many homosexuals. Most of us tend to take a distance from, flee from the unknown and what is different. Homofile is a minority group, but it gives us no excuse for not showing true respect. Although we have not been able to touch on some of these difficult questions in principle, in the context of the communication, we have, as I say, primarily wanted to put the emphasis on action in terms of improving living conditions and quality of life for lesbians and gays. I hope we can be believed when we emphasize that we want to be together with all the good forces that will fight to improve the quality of life of homosexuals and lesbians, that we can be believed when we say that we want to meet every person with respect on the basis of his human dignity and not on the basis of sexual orientation, and that we can experience it without being pressured to go along with our fundamental approaches. Finally, I would like to say that it is important that everyone, including lesbians and gays, be met with an inclusive attitude and with respect. Attention and recognition are vital for developing as a human being. This applies — not least — also to young lesbians and homosexuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e375	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e378	I just want to say first to the representative Lånker that it is clear that in such a debate everyone should be met with respect for what they say, but that does not necessarily mean that one should not contradict the argument. I have to say in relation to the fact that you don't understand why it causes such strong reactions that you want to start with cause research – not the consequence of being gay and what it can lead to because of the reactions of society, but we have to figure out why we're gay – that there's a reason that the Christian People's Party is alone about this. It's precisely because it signals the kind of research to be done: why is there any problem with homofiles? Now we're going to figure out the problem, what makes people become gay. Why else are we going to find the reasons why people become gay? What makes it even worse for the Christian People's Party is that we know, with the background of what is happening within the Church in terms of healing, that the first point in any healing phase of homosexuals is to find the cause. That is the first point in all the cures of homosexuals committed by church communities in Norway per year. today. That's why I want to ask the representative Långer if it's not time to take this reality inward. When one at the same time knows that this healing culture that has been in some church communities and that is taking place per day. Today, destroying people, making them mental cases and, in the worst case, causing people to kill themselves, isn't it time to take a strong distance from healing as a phenomenon? That's what this is all about. And then I have to say that the representative Lånker can't wait for the great understanding either when he can't take a distance from healing as a phenomenon, but rather put in a wretched note, where he starts trying to understand the slightly milder forms of healing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e387	First, I just want to point out what I said earlier in my article when it came to research. We are together with the Workers' Party and the other parties to ask for more research, and we ask that this research cover all things, including the causes, precisely because we know that some people are struggling with it and are messing with these thoughts, and we think it might be good. And we don't quite understand why it should be wrong. I understand that we have been misunderstood, and I have trouble explaining it; I don't know who has the problem. This is also associated with a supposedly healing culture within church communities, but the representative Hornslien probably knows more about it than I do. I choose to stick to what I have said, that the Christian People's Party is a political party. Our task is to protect freedom of religion. We have not gone into and discussed healing — possibly changing sexual orientation — as a phenomenon, because that is what we consider to be a theological question. What you have to ask when two or three are assembled, to put it that way, does not concern the politicians. But there is one important thing: Church communities must also show respect for individuals and for human dignity. And as far as I know both the Norwegian Church and the religious communities that are known in Norway, they are very busy doing that. The aim of this message is not primarily to discuss the fundamental questions that lie in the theological field, but it is to put the spotlight on the dissatisfaction in society that causes homosexuals and lesbians to struggle and harm. And that's the measures we should now stand by together to help these. We can probably meet for theological discussions in other contexts, but this has nothing to do with politics. That's my fixed point, and that gets to be my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e398	That is a point of view I actually agree with the representative of the Christian People's Party. It is that when the Church became so strongly focused after the message came, both the pursuit of scapegoats ended and the rest of society was released. I think that's pretty gross, because here's really a job to do. But I can't let go back to the debate on Tuesday, because despite what Ola T. Loan has said here, it seemed to me that the quieter one goes in the doors and wants things as they once were, the better it is. The NOVA report and the clear figures that show what young people are struggling with, their own identity and even trying to take their own lives, require us to ask ourselves some questions about why. Is it such that lesbians and gays are compounded differently, genetically in fact, which makes them particularly weak? Or is it so that it is we, society, the great majority, who do not tolerate being different? But then also the Christian People's Party, if we ask ourselves that question, must innovate that when they want to open up research on cause, they send out fine signals that homophilis are abnormal. In the end, I would like to take it up again with Homofile's Youth Phone. There actually Christian People's Party has been quite open in the past and supported it. Does the Christian People's Party then agree that this should be a low-threshold offer to the extent that it can be free, so that there can be no obstacle to young people applying for this phone, and that it can also be strengthened so that they can have guidance resources for young people who use this phone on a voluntary basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e407	At least I'm glad that Ågot Valle agreed with me in one thing, that this debate has been easy to track off. I'm therefore moving focus on what I think we should be concerned about, and that's influencing attitudes. It's true in political parties. It applies in all associations. This is true in sports laws, trade unions, housing laws, churches and churches, not least. It's true in all social teams. I think we should focus on that very much. And as for this thing that's been pulled in here, with religious communities and church communities, we all know that there are processes going on in these societies as well, and there's evidence that the changes in attitudes to gay and lesbian happen there too. I do believe that strengthening the political pressure on these will help to create frustration, disguise this debate and in many ways make it even more difficult. I think we should stick to what's our problem. It is creating good conditions for everyone in society, and not least for those who are weak, who are struggling and having it difficult. When Ågot Valle asks me if the gays are different than the rest of us, I have to say that I have never claimed anything in that direction. It's people with the same value, like us, and with the same feelings. There's two different ways of experiencing sexuality, but there's a lot of indifferences as well. And this is just one of the reasons why we've included a little sentence that this shouldn't be excluded from research, when you're researching the entire big field. The Storting Communication has guided research in a particular direction. It is contrary to the nature of research to control it as well. And I think that as long as we know that some people are having trouble with it, it can't be discriminatory to help these people get an answer and get knowledge, which can help them feel that they too are respected as human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e414	The last answer from the representative Lånker shows me in many ways the problem that the Christian People's Party is up against. Relatively febrile, Lånke tries in the answer to harmless notes that the Christian People's Party has in the setting, a small sentence, but it is precisely the small sentences of the Christian People's Party that are the problem. The Christian People's Party has a big explanation problem. We noticed this in the main post, how many parts of the post were used to explain, and where it was actually claimed by the representative that they had been misunderstood. I quote from the comments: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Christian People’s Party, are critical of attempts to cure homosexuals. These members – that is, the majority – ‘consider this to be a violation of human dignity and accept that homosexuality is a normal variant of human sexuality’. This note is not a Christian People's Party. It has also been said from the representative Lånke that the Christian People's Party has no position on healing. Then I ask myself the following question: How can you say something like that when you are not in this comment? And further, what is it that we have misunderstood in the Christian People's Party's position on the question of healing?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e426	I experience a massive focus, not least from the Workers' Party's speakers, on the 'problems' in the Christian People's Party. I wish you were also willing to look a little bit inward in their own rows. Is this trouble-free in the Workers' Party? Are all these questions settled once and for all? Are they that easy? I'm just asking. Now you're talking about notes that we haven't been to. This is the first time I've had such a strong debate on remarks that we haven't been in. It is daily in Stortinget that we go out and into the notes, and we are not hanged out because we are not involved in all of the force expressions that are in these notes. The majority are now brought together to say that healing homophiles is violating human dignity. I have no reason to say that. I'm not saying more than that. I have no reason to say that. I would like to wish I had more basis, but with the political platform on which I stand, I have no basis to say that. I know that healing in general, and I say in general, is a reality within the Christian, the religious, space, and it should just be lacking if the Christian People's Party should say that some of this was to violate human dignity. And then I think you're also trying to represent it as if the misunderstanding is just on one side. You need pretty strong glasses when you look so bad. I can't say anything but that our position on this is quite clear. Those who want to read our comments. I also hope that we are respected for having a slightly different position than the majority seems to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e435	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e438	It's a brand day when the Stortinge now debates the first complete paper on the living conditions of lesbians and gays. On the right, the positive signal will be that the Government presents its own big message on living conditions and quality of life for lesbians and gays in Norway. This big message has, among other things: background in a proposal from the SV and the Right. The Communication identifies and identifies major areas of Norwegian society that need information and guidance to understand the everyday problems of lesbians and homosexuals and the discrimination that is taking place, too many, daily. We have noticed that some lesbians and gays experience their quality of life and health situation so difficult that suicide and suicide attempts become the solution. The Committee refers to the NOVA report on the quality of life and the quality of life, which shows that lesbians and homosexuals have health problems, more frequent anxiety and depression, and more frequent use of alcohol and drugs than elsewhere in the population. The most serious finding was that suicidal thoughts and suicide attempts are more common in lesbians and homosexuals than in others. Lesbian and gay is not a uniform, weak group. The NOVA report includes: that the average level of education for those surveyed is higher than that of the general population and that they have good partnerships. The Committee has stressed that the gay and lesbian challenges cannot be met with standard solutions for all. The Committee also considers it alarming that every four women and men under the age of 25 in the NOVA sample report having at least one attempted suicide. The Committee further points out that the feeling of isolation and solitude, the desire to get away from an unbearable situation, disgust with the future, and the problems of accepting oneself as a lesbian/homofil were the four most common motives given for the suicide attempt. However, it is gratifying to note that the notification shows that there has been a marked improvement in gay and lesbian living conditions. Many homosexuals and lesbians live good and rich lives, regardless of geography and social status. These developments show that the policy decisions taken, including the Partnership Act, have produced results. Nevertheless, in some areas, there are still problems that require changes in attitudes to be corrected. In its work on this Communication, the Government has found that research-based knowledge is lacking in important areas. The majority also believe that it is necessary to clarify what kind of research projects it is now necessary to carry out. I would like to emphasise, in particular, the need to acquire knowledge of attitudes towards homosexuals in minority groups. In relation to these groups, it will be necessary to assess on an ongoing basis whether specific measures are necessary to address specifically the problems that these groups may experience. So to the different measures in the message. In recent years, there have been sexual abuse episodes. This is obviously unacceptable. The right and the rest of the committee therefore support the government's work on revising the penal code in order to ensure that violent crimes motivated by the sexual orientation of an individual can be a criminal intensification in line with racist-motivated violent crimes. The Committee points out that although the Norwegian community accepts homosexuals and lesbians to a much greater extent than in the past, there are still problems in recognising its own homosexuality. It is important to stress the importance of continuing targeted work to help young people in the ‘come out’ phase. The goal must be to develop a society where people can accept their own sexuality without fear of violence, discrimination and harassment. There is a need for research into how it is perceived to belong to a minority group while being gay or lesbian in Norway. The majority of the Committee points out that we now know that problems such as coercive marriages, traditional thinking about gender roles and a strong loyalty to the family can affect young homosexuals and lesbians with immigrant backgrounds. There is therefore a need already to work through existing organisations to address and support young people experiencing this type of problem. At the same time, the majority have underlined the need for schools and teachers to be able to address these issues to young people in schools with entries from students with a minority background. The Committee points out that the development of sexual identity takes place in children and young people. The school is a meeting place where most children and young people are reached, so the school has a very central place in creating positive and non-condemning attitudes to homosexuals and homosexuality. It is of great importance that children and young people meet educational staff with knowledge of homosexuality and homosexuality in their everyday school life. The right is therefore in favour of the Government’s proposals for action in this area. It's nice that lesbians and gays state that they have good social networks. Nevertheless, the Committee considers it appropriate to point out that it is still possible for some to experience conflicts with their close family, parents and siblings. This underlines the importance of continuing active awareness-raising. The Committee further points out that sport and physical activity are an important part of health prevention. A large proportion of homosexuals and lesbians participate in various sports activities. It is therefore important that the knowledge of homosexuality be strengthened also within the bodies of sport. The development of HIV infection among gay/bifilel men has been stable in recent years. Since Folkehelsa has calculated that the probability of getting HIV infection is approximately. 70 times higher for gay/biphile males, it is necessary to stress that HIV/AIDS prevention remains to be targeted at the most vulnerable. The Committee considers that efforts need to be maintained, and is particularly concerned about ensuring that young gay/biphile men who are in the process of making a sexual debut are well informed about pathways and protection. So to that point where the government is on the wild roads. It is not unknown that the Labour Party is marked by a strong tendency to override the Norwegian Church. The party's clear desire to maintain the church system is not least due to a desire to keep the Church in its ears. Or as Ranveig Frøiland so elegantly expressed it in Bergen’s Official Journal last year: ‘Just like this, Kirkja’s reactionary forces can be held in chess.’ It must be the same thinking that lies behind the proposal to amend § 55 A of the Working Environment Act, so that the Norwegian Church will no longer be exempted from the provision that, in the event of employment, it is not permitted to discriminate from any homophilic lay or form of life. There is no reason to doubt that the Government's intentions with this proposal are the very best, and I feel pretty sure that there is a large majority in this Chamber who agree with the Government in the matter, but in this case it is not the matter itself that is the most important. And it doesn't help much that the Workers' Party and SV stress that the amendment of the law should not be seen as a requirement to hire homosexuals in marriageed positions. No, it was supposed to be missing, too! The main point, however, is that the Government, with the support of the Workers' Party and SV here in the Chamber, makes proposals – and that in the form of the law – that would put the Norwegian Church in a special position among its religious communities as regards the right to self-determination in matters of learning. This is difficult to perceive as different from the fact that the Workers' Party does not accept that the Norwegian Church should have the same natural independence in matters of belief and doctrine that the party so willingly accepts in respect of other religious communities. It is clear that the Norwegian Church is perceived as a kind of extended arm of the government, which has a good deal to do with directives on what to think and what to do, from the overall authority. But the Norwegian Church has a different overall authority – and fortunately it takes the majority of the consequence of today. It is also difficult to understand that the Workers' Party and the SV obviously have no understanding of the criticism of the proposal made by central people within the Church who work most actively to change the Church's majority view of gay access to dedicated positions. I think there is good reason to accept their assessment that such a dictate would have a negative effect on the internal debate in the Church, and that the good intention in this case would be to the detriment of what is to be achieved. It must be a crossroads for those who today — despite the warnings from, among other things. Bishop Steelsett, however, supports the Government's proposal. But it's not too late to turn around at the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e474	So far in the debate is, to a large extent, to say the least. I open by saying that the Advance Party records that people who have gay lay experience problems in everyday life as others do not. The message shows that gay and lesbians, among others They also have a more problematic relationship with their own sexuality than others. This is particularly true in the ‘come out’ phase, which is problematic for many homosexuals. Skeptical environments for homophilis contribute to this. Although there is a strong focus on the problems that homosexuals and lesbians experience, the studies reveal that there is a lot of positive also about the homofile situation in the Norwegian community. We must not forget that Norway is one of the few societies in the world where homophilis are fully accepted, and where there is an ever-increasing trend towards safeguarding the gay and lesbian rights of society. This is a large plus for the situation of Norwegian homofiles compared to the situation in many other countries. It is positive that Norway has come a long way in this area. Respect for the individual's peculiarity is important, in any case, the Party of Advancement believes. As with the other speakers, I would also like to refer to studies that show that lesbians and homosexuals generally have a higher level of education than the general population and that they have a more active social life than the general population. These are positive things that need to be underlined, so that in the debate on the situation of lesbians and gays, there is not just negative focus. The Progress Party wants all people regardless of their sexual orientation to have as good and secure living conditions as possible. Human dignity and respect are important. Therefore, equal treatment of all groups in society, irrespective of race, sexual orientation, belief or political conviction, is important. It is therefore our view that no special public action should be taken against lesbians and homosexuals, as these groups can also benefit from the services available in society today, for example. in the health care system. We must not contribute to making lesbians and gays a weak group. On the contrary, it seems that these are people with great abilities. It's sad to record that many of the gays are having suicidal thoughts. It's sad to record that many gay people have mental problems. But I'll be allowed to make it clear that these are general problems in Norwegian society today. I'm just referring to a not so old report that says that 20,000 children are also waiting to get help for their mental problems. So these are general problems in Norwegian society, which the Progress Party wants to work for and take action against all Norwegian society. What I'm saying is that the Progress Party will warn against putting more people in jail in Norway because they're different from the rest of the population in one or more areas. And if it turns out that the positive developments we're in in Norway are going to turn around, and that we're going to record that homosexuals will be discriminated against in some way, we're going to have to deal with them jointly with the tools we already have in Norwegian legislation. The Progress Party is also, as stated in the recommendation, against amending Section 55 of the Working Environment Act, because we believe that the question of homosexuals in church positions can be considered a theological question in the Church. It would therefore not be right for the Storting to try to push a change like this into the Church, against the Church's recommendation and wishes. Having said that, I also believe that there will be a continuous development in the Church even around these questions, and that it may not take that long before the Church itself will fully accept homofiles in line with heterofiles. But for us in the Progress Party, it is important that this happens after an internal process in the Church, and not that we politicians are taking political decisions over the Church. Finally, I would like to refer to the setting on page 24, where – I suppose it is called an incubation – the Progress Party should have been included in the note that the Christian People's Party stands alone, which includes partnership.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e491	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e495	Last Tuesday, the representative Sandberg enthusiastically exclaimed that when it came to the matter of stebarn adoption, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party went hand in hand. It was a naughty handshake that the Christian People's Party rightly reserved itself against, but in many ways it is the same today. The Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party have many conflicting views on issues related to homophilis. The representative Lånker was puzzled that I referred to the comments, but I have to do it again, because in the comments the individual parties are chiseling out their policy. And in a majority comment where all parties, with the exception of these two, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, are involved, the majority expresses the objective of developing a society in which people can accept their own sexuality without fear of violence, discrimination and harassment. And my question is short and good: why can't the Progress Party be involved in such a formulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e502	The answer is basically quite simple, that's what the representative Larsen started his line with. It's in notes that we're chiseling out politics, there's in notes the differences between the individual parties. And I tried to express it in my post as well. But the policy of the Progress Party is the same, regardless of which group it is about in society. I am aware that the Progress Party here has a completely different line from the Labour Party, and I am proud of that. If we look at the general development of society, we see that the Workers' Party still stands for – what I'm going to call it – the idea of unity/ equality of society, which necessarily has led us today to do individual actions and special, extraordinary actions for groups in society. Nearly daily, we are dealing in the Stortinget with small groups in society, because the Workers' Party has fought through an equality society that has led some groups not to feel belonging, to fall outside and to be discriminated against in society. We must then take exceptional measures, such as today, to repair the damage caused by the Workers' Party's equality policy. I am therefore very pleased that the representative Larsen has registered that we have a different view of this with exceptional measures for individual groups, and that he has registered that we are with the Christian People's Party on the note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e509	I must first say to the representative Sandberg: to fall outside a society one must first be defined into a society. Some of the problems in this discussion have been that for so many years we have defined homophilis outside the community, but we have now begun a process where homophilis are defined into all areas of society. That's what equality is; you have to have the same possibilities, the same respect and the same human dignity. It's all about similarity. So it's not about the fact that all people should be entitled to the same measures. If special groups are struggling with special problems, we need to introduce special measures. It's the likeness of the gang that the Sandberg representative is defending and that he thinks is so terrible in the Workers' Party. And it involves, among other things: this: If you have a group of people, e.g. Young homosexuals, who are struggling to cope with mental and suicidal problems and who also commit suicide, obviously need special measures to deal with the particular problem. That doesn't mean you stigmatize these people, but you give them the same opportunities you give everyone else in this country. So I want to strongly distance myself from the fact that the Workers' Party is trying to stigmatize gay people because you're trying to define them. A counter-question to the representative Sandberg must be: does this mean that tomorrow he is ready to make changes to all the laws where gay people are still being discriminated against, to give them the same opportunities? Does this mean that we can expect that the representative Sandberg and the Progress Party are now going to be the main driving force in the Stortinget to ensure gay people exactly the same rights that all other people have? There are still a few points left in this society where we are not treated equally. I hope this means that we will in the future see a completely different attitude at the Progress Party here in order to ensure that the law is absolutely the same for heterofiles as for homosexuals. It will be a long step in the right direction for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e520	I understand that the representative Hornslien is back to Tuesday's debate. I also followed that debate. In principle, it was then said that it was not a homodebat. The first one to open up for a homophili debate on Tuesday, was Hornslien himself. The representative Hornslien challenged me whether to give them all the gay rights tomorrow, in line with everyone else. No, I'm not willing tomorrow to give adult people all the rights in all sorts of areas. Whether you're heterofil, homofil or anything else, it's not that adults have all sorts of rights in relation to, for example, adoption. There is the Advancement Party clear and clear: we think of the best of the child. We simply don't believe that it's always for the child's best that lonely or gay get access to adopt. But that doesn't mean we're somehow putting them gay in a separate sector. We're talking about the entire adult population. We were the only ones who stood up to the fact that lonely people would be allowed to adopt. And I have to be allowed to ask: can we not see everyone alone in Norway as gay? I can't believe that. Here we're talking about equivalency, that everyone has to be treated within the same framework. I understand that some people are still provoked by such an attitude. That's because they don't get everyone under the same umbrella, something they want. This is the overall objective of the Progress Party: to ensure diversity and diversity and that the identity of the individual can be preserved and not shaped within a square.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e529	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e532	In my years at Stortinget, I have tried to contribute – in all modesty – to creating a society with space for everyone, where all people have the same value, and where all people have the right to respect for their integrity. I am convinced that being met with respect is the basis for a marine respect that enables us to create a diverse society, where one can unfold, where we love to develop – to use that expression – the diversity, and where we thus contribute to a good society for all. The NOVA report, as many have mentioned, shows that there are groups in the Norwegian community who have major problems because they – in this case – have a sexual orientation that we call ‘normal variant’, but – as the case-rapporteur said – were viewed as criminal 30 years ago. It is clear that there has been a development in this area where more and more people have accepted and respected this, asked people to stand up and be marine, and given people self-respect on that basis. I think it is very good that we have received this message. I think the Council of State should be in favour of both the notification of living conditions and quality of life and because she has submitted and we have been given the matter of stebarn adoption. I am of those who believe that all people have sorrows and joys and problems and challenges – everyone has their own to contend with. It probably doesn't depend on sexual orientation. But I believe that we are facing a group that has been struggling for so many years to be accepted and respected and thus also shown self-respect, that we need to continue to have special measures to help them find their place and expand. The communication places particular emphasis on the problems young people have, and I think that is very important – the so-called out phase. At the same time, there is a reference to issues related to minority groups in our own country that face particular problems in this area, and, of course, we should be alert to action on the mental health advisory page, etc. to meet the problems that may arise here. This with violence and the penal code §§ 292 and 232 has also been mentioned, and it is announced that it will be reviewed. Unfortunately, there is a need for that, simply because the gay and lesbians today are still struggling with a society that has many prejudices in it, and how many, perhaps because they are walking around and insecure themselves, also start to hack at those who have such a type of ‘normal variant’ of human sexuality. I also have to say a little about this with religious communities, because there I also believe that the Workers' Party has a kind of discretion that I find difficult to accept, and that I think everyone should be satisfied that the majority is putting their feet down in relation to. Thus, there is an exception to Section 55(A) of the Working Environment Act in the case of religious communities, and the Government is now promoting proposals that the Norwegian Church should no longer benefit from this derogation. I have listened to those I perceive as allies in these questions within the Church, who have warned against this. They indicate that there are dialogues and processes taking place within the Church, and that such a decision – in any case, it is perceived as a state order – will disrupt and destroy the processes in progress. That's why I'm glad that there's no majority for this, and that the processes that are in the Church can go their way. I think that's the best thing for the matter, and I think – and that's what I'm a little concerned about – that it's also important to maintain the state church.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e549	For SV, the struggle for lesbian and gay liberation is part of the struggle for a society without oppression, a society based on solidarity and equality, but not ‘similarity’. We want a society with the freedom to be different, with the freedom to live a life on its own premises, the freedom to live out love and show it out, even when love is directed towards its own sex, like on the beautiful picture on the cover of the big message. We're not there yet, but this picture is a sign that the world has moved forward thanks to courageous pastors who have had allies in the political parties. I dare say that SV has been involved in the pusher thread, and it obliges us to be so on. I am pleased that the Council of State has taken on the task that Stortinget, on a proposal from SV and Right, has given to the Government, and she has obtained a document that is a basis for taking the steps that it is necessary to proceed further. In the debate around the message, there has been a lot of light on the Church and the Church's responsibility for discrimination against lesbians and homosexuals, and I agree with that criticism. But if the light is only directed towards the Church, the rest of society remains in the dark and escapes responsibility. The message reveals that all parts of the community areas need to be confronted with the prejudices, so that we can do something with the famous cabinet door, open it in a wide gap. There is a short and well-needed common promise to expose the necessary insight and knowledge to respond to strong prejudices. Being accepted as a whole human being, regardless of sexual orientation, is a human right. It's still the way people live away from their seas and their closest ones, a life of lie, because this society is characterized by prejudice and intolerance, and it's still the way that people become sexual refugees because community gets too crowded. The job is not done with the treatment today. The job must be done continuously and systematically. Therefore, SV proposes that an action plan be drawn up to combat homophobia and discrimination, precisely as a basis for action. This is what the Government is doing in areas that are considered to be of particular importance, and this area is particularly important. We believe that surveys such as NOVA have to be carried out at regular intervals, with subsequent large-scale reports, so that we can discuss how far we have come in a complete picture. Storing can contribute to a more inclusive society. I think about legislation, and I think about the right to be judged as adoptive parents and refer to what we suggested in the debate on Tuesday, and the Working Environment Act § 55 A, which we believe should be amended so that the Church cannot continue to discriminate against lesbians and homosexuals, and I am thinking not least of changes in the penal code. During 1990–96, more gay men were killed, and the killings were sexually motivated in some form. In all cases, the defense of the deceased used homosexuality to try to reduce penalties. Therefore, we do not think it is good enough to consider whether the penal code should be amended, but are now sending the mandate to change the laws, so that acts of violence motivated by sexual orientation should be a punitive moment. SV wants us to get an information stream around gay life forms at many levels in society, at kindergartens, at school, in the workplace, in health care, at the prosecution authority, at non-governmental organisations and in sport. Research is needed in many areas, for example: around sport and homophobia. I have seen ugly examples of resource-intensive sportsmen being harassed by organized sports. We just can't have it like that! We believe that employers and employees must be held responsible for attitudes in the workplace. Training of safety officers is particularly important, and here the State must take the lead in taking on greater responsibilities for employers. It is important to put responses into juvenile ulcers, in the most vulnerable phase. SV believes that Homofile's Youth Phone in this context is particularly important, and we believe that it must be operated free of charge on a green number, just to make the threshold to contact this phone in anonymity as low as possible for young people. SV has always meant that LLH should play a crucial role. LLH must have resources to become a grassroots organisation at first line level in all counties. But it becomes a discharge if the important job to do now is to depend on voluntary forces – and only that. The job that needs to be done now needs to be organized and professionalised in a completely different way than what I see the government adding up to. I also want the State Council's comment on that. I hereby promote the proposals contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e572	Ågot Valle has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e575	This approach is important because a harassed minority group in Norway has been described in a serious and proper way, and in this way has gained relationships that are important for their lives in this country, on the agenda of the debate. And that happens is positive. I will link comments to some of the important milestones that I see in this document. I'm going to start with what's an inheritance from a slightly different role in life, namely, how upset I am that there have been violations, criminal acts, yes killing, justified in sexual hatred. I am a strong supporter of tightening up the criminal provisions where acts of violence and what also ends in killing are committed with sexual hatred as a starting point, and in this case hatred against homosexuals. I'm going to mark that by simply voting for the SV proposal. I think it's in place to respond. I still remember some of the things we've been able to read about, they've upset me, just like many other things where I feel that people are being bored. Another of the important milestones is the description given here by youth, and I think it's thought-provoking to record in the NOVA report that in terms of gay and lesbian youth, the very youngest, one in four have actually tried to kill their lives. I think that is a relationship that we have to take heavily inwards, and that means that I am also voting in favour of Mr Ågot Valle's proposal for a green number. I think it is quite right, and I think it is important that such a practical measure is in place. Then there are two relationships that relate to the Church. I am active in the Norwegian Church, and I have little sense that someone is practicing cures for homosexuals. I personally think that there must be a strong misunderstanding of the Church's message, and I understand that people feel this is deeply offensive. As a member of the church, I belong to those who have been to – and who have actually been to church meetings and the work for – that homosexuals in partnership and togetherness can sit in church-dedicated positions. I'm a strong supporter of that. But I'm an equally strong opponent of the state meddling in the Church's inner life. That is why I am going to vote against the amendment to Section 55A. This is a position I've had in many ways, and I think the principles are there to be observed, no matter where you are. I am among those who must at least be able to say the following to those who are gay, and who are seeking to find their place in the Church: I have experienced that much of it, among other things. Open Church Group has done, over recent years has contributed to both shades and openings that I didn't think were possible five or six years ago. I am also one of those who rejoiced very greatly that the Majorstua council did what they did, and the employees of Jens Torstein Olsen. I'm a strong follower of such a line, and I'm going to fight for such a line in the church I'm a member of, but I don't think the state is going to regulate this. I am aware that there is a conflict here between what one would want politically, and how religious communities evolve, but it is true in religious societies that unfortunately there are often in some contexts developments on social issues later than one would wish. But that's my line, and I disagree with the position taken by the government here, which supports SV here in the hall. There is another important point that has been raised, and that is how the living conditions described here broadly can be maintained. I myself was present at a – I think – reflection-oriented meeting that LLH arranged, which just went on these conditions. And I'm the first to say that it's important with non-governmental organisations -- it's actually the ones that are important in Norway. But I also agree with those who say that something more is needed. So I'd like to make my point of view clear: I'm no longer among those who are overly enthusiastic about the ombudsman's idea, but I'm thinking in other ways. I think in those paths and in the experiences we have, among other things. has reaped through what we have now seen, through what is called the Centre for Ethnic Discrimination. There is a body set up in public space, with the support of the public, that has a role, and that has a role in documentation, where people can turn, so that single events not only become an event for themselves, or for those with whom they are talking, but become something that ultimately gathers a systematic documentation. That means you get a pulpit that works in the public debate, it works against the administrating gene, it works against the politicians. I prefer it as a model, and I would ask the Council of State to look precisely at the experiences of the Centres against ethnic discrimination when looking from now on at how to ensure that the living conditions of homosexuals and lesbians can be maintained in the public even after this big debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e592	I would like to stress that of course I am of those who are pleased that this message is on the table, and I am pleased that the problem and the challenges we face in relation to the treatment of gay and lesbian and their living conditions in society are discussed and taken seriously and carefully. Anyway, I want to warn you a little bit about the reaction of the big society to its own actions, because I get a certain feeling when I hear some posts here, that the gays now have to be very grateful that this happens, that we're going to be very happy that society has now become so big and so liberal. I just want to warn you a little bit about this thinking, because for us who are gay, who have fought maybe since we were 13–14–15 years to be accepted and to get equal rights and to be viewed as equivalent people, it is not said that we should be so very grateful when we get to it and we see a change of attitude. I'd rather say, it should just be missing! We're going to meet with the same respect and have the same equivalency as all the other people in this society. If we do something wrong, we're going to be taken for it. If we do something good, we shall be commended for it, but it shall not happen on the basis of our sexual orientation. This is what this discussion is essentially about – not about being grateful for the changes that have occurred. It was just supposed to be missing! Then there have been reactions to this that go on healing, and that it becomes a narrower part of the debate. I just want to say that this cure is not a theological debate – there is no one. I just want to quote a resolution from the Norwegian Psychiatric Association adopted at their annual meeting in October 2000. There they say: ‘Homophilia is neither a disease nor a medical condition and may therefore not be the subject of treatment. A ‘treatment’, the sole intention of which is to change sexual orientation from homofil to heterofil must be considered ethically irresponsible.’ I want to warn you very strongly against making this a theological question. We cannot accept that assaults against individuals, which lead individuals into a terrible everyday life, turn into a theological question. All decent parties must say that this is a kind of treatment of individuals that we do not accept. It has nothing to do with respect for the Church. It simply has to do with respect for the individual. And I think it's problematic for the Christian People's Party, I have to say, while we know that Kjell Magne Bondevik has led to a violent openness around mental disorders – something I think has been very good, and that there is great respect for: to dare to go out with it – I actually think it is a great paradox for the Christian People's Party to weaken his credibility in this area by not taking away from this healing culture that is quite widespread. It is possible that the representative Lånker is not aware of this, but then he can join me in the office after this debate and join the Internet, so he can see all the offers that lie there about the cure of gays, and what it has led to. And if he is in doubt about what it has done, he can also see the excellent documentary who went on TV 2 last year, called ‘BE – dirty, sinful me’, where you get a relatively broad and thorough evidence of what this leads to for the individual, that this is not a theological question at all. It must therefore be embarrassing, both for Bondevik who has taken on this role, and for the Christian People's Party who participated in setting down the Value Commission, that they are not able to take a proper position around these questions that we know have led and still lead to a lot of accidents, especially among young people. I have to say, unfortunately, that before you are able to say that in a way, you can't expect to be believed properly when you say that you want the best of the gay people. It's that simple, so important is this case, and it involves so many people. Besides, it's like we've come a long way. So it's been 30 years since it was punishable to be gay. It's really cruel to think that it's only 30 years ago! But we still have a long way to go before it's fully accepted. I would also warn against letting the Oslo domination be the unique image of the gays. I think it's pretty good to be gay in Oslo, but I think you should be careful from this pulpit to establish that it's still okay in every single village and every single city in this country to be young and gay, or in and of adult and gay. So we still have to fight the prejudices, and we still have to take clear positions that allow us not to stand here in 30 years and discuss gay and lesbian living conditions, because then, hopefully, we have come there that we are neither cured nor subjected to other cures to try to make ourselves different from the people we are actually.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e608	Last September, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a recommendation on the situation of homosexuals in Europe. That event was joyful for two reasons: firstly, that it had not been possible to adopt this recommendation as late as the previous summer; secondly, that Norway is at all points safe within the limits recommended to the governments of the Member States of the Council of Europe. It also means that I perceive both the big message presented, the attitude presented, and today's debate as advanced in an international perspective. It's e.g. so that in the leading body for human rights in Europe, there are still many Member States that criminalise specific sexual orientations. That being said, it is clear that this does not mean that the situation is in order in Norway, but at least we have been through and are in a very happy development. Of course, this development takes place partly by means of the law we have, but perhaps primarily by reference to the attitudes that are on the offensive in Norwegian society, and who are not. One important feature I think for my part is the demystification of people who have particular sexual orientations, being different types of people, having different rights or needs than those we all have. There's obviously still a lot to do here, but I think this is primarily an attitude work that is also a significant responsibility for us at the individual level. Then I'm a little bit afraid of what I want to call clientization. It is true that if people have special social problems because of their sexual orientation, there must be specific social action in relation to these problems. This applies to both aid and support apparatus, legislation and other means. But we also have another type of clientization that openly or a little bit more disguised is based on – let's say – a normalization concept of sexual orientation in society, and even perhaps wants to initiate research or cure in relation to them. I will not leave that field any closer now, but just refer to what Anders Hornslien said about this phenomenon in the previous article. Then it is that in this field, as in all other areas of society that provide the basis for discrimination, that is the discrimination we must achieve. This is the way – at least it is for me – that in some of the areas we are discussing, discrimination is an important part of the analysis and the decisions we are going to make, but there are other considerations as well. Adoption is from my personal point of view such an area, and the difficult demarcation between the norms of society, as laid down by the legislator, and the norms of society such as this. a theological examination determines them, may also be. It does not mean, on my part, a lack of security, but a reverence for such issues. I want to say that at least I want to distance myself from – I think it was Trond Helleland who said that – that the Workers' Party has a desire to keep the Church in order to control the theology. That's not right. It is not a political task to conduct neither theological research nor development, but it may be a political task to ensure that the theological breaking takes place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e630	I would like to start by saying that this message is the most important document I have presented to Stortinget, and I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the representative Lahnstein for his praiseworthy words. This is clearly a message of value, and the government's starting point is that gay and lesbians must live up to their love for people of the same sex without fear of punishment, either from the big community or from the Church. For the same reason, the Government also takes a fundamental position towards healing – a position that is followed by a large majority of the committee, and I am very pleased about that. The Advocate General carefully explained the history, and I will not repeat it. But there goes a red thread from the ban was lifted until we present this message. The red thread is based on knowledge, insight and understanding, but also on homophile's expedient struggle for better living conditions. I want to give gay recognition for this fight, and I am proud that the Workers' Party has played a central role in all these important road choices. History has shown us that we are right, and we also know that there have been different perceptions in our own party in this matter. Homofiles are diversity, and homofiles do not form a uniform group. Many homosexuals and lesbians live great lives, while we know that others struggle with self-acceptance. The message reflects this fact. The Communication contains a number of actions in many areas – research, empowerment and information actions in a number of areas. The target groups are gay themselves as well as teachers, health professionals, municipal authorities and the social partners. It is proposed to strengthen LLH so that this organisation can serve as a knowledge bank and as a watchdog in anti-discrimination work in the workplace. The government also proposes that the penal laws §§ 232 and 292 be strengthened, so that violent crimes and acts of harm motivated by a person’s sexual orientation can be a criminal incriminating moment. Furthermore, we propose that gay consensual residents be included in the further work of the study of the Sambos and society. The government also wants to strengthen the Municipality of Oslo’s gay counselling service, so that they can develop skills in this area and guide the other healthcare services. I'm glad that a majority on the Biggest seems to join in all the essentials of this. The government proposes to abolish the exemption provided for in Section 55(A) of the Working Environment Act, and we do not, as the media debate can give the impression, want to oblige the Church to hire gay priests. On the other hand, we have wanted to prevent the Church from having the right to discriminate between homosexuals and heterophilic theologians with the same view. I take note that there's a majority that sees it in a different way. I'm tempted to say that that's not what some parties think, that there are some that need to be taken. It's not about making some parties scapegoats, but it's actually about a real political disagreement. I want to say it that way that there can be no doubt that there is a certain contradiction between the principles of one side and the human world on the other. They simply do not go hand in hand in this matter. In my view, the worst form of discrimination is the attempt to cure people with homophilic or lesbian orientation. It signals a view of homophilia as something undesirable and negative that should be changed. You may or may not like it, but the Labour Party believes that this view is ethically irresponsible. It has been stated in this debate that the Labour Party has shown a poor judgment. I then want to ask the question back: a poor understanding of who? Tolerance and human dignity are the most important things, say some parties here today. And then we have to ask, for whom? Is the Church's consideration more important than being able to accept individuals? We actually have a discrimination clause in Norwegian law in 2001, and we want to get away from viewing homosexuals in Norway as minorities. I am convinced of one thing, and that is that it is only a matter of time before the majority in this Chamber believes the same thing as the Labour Party. We know that there is a process in the Church, and we hope that we can achieve it, even though the Workers' Party is currently suffering defeat in this matter. But it's a defeat I can stand very upright on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e656	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e659	I noticed that the Council of State was very engaged. It is not so strange when this is the most important matter she has put forward. I think there's absolutely reason to characterize this as a message of value, and in a lot of fields, as I've said before, we agree to try to improve the conditions for lesbians and gays. Now it is that the Christian People's Party here today, not least from the representative Larsen, has been confronted with the fact that it is the majority who are right. Because we've stood outside a broad majority in a comment, we've been driven up against the wall and told that we've been wrong. Now I want to confront the Council of State that there is an opposite reality in relation to Section 55(A) of the Working Environment Act, where the majority opposes the Government and the Workers' Party. I guess that's the way the majority are always right, and that's also true here. Again, I want to challenge the Council of State on the issue of the Church and the relationship to employment, not least in dedicated positions, and the exception that the Government now wants to remove and thus discriminate against the Norwegian Church in relation to all other religious communities. There's also a side to this. Does the Council of State mean that the Norwegian Church is a religious community, or is it not a religious community? And with regard to this decision that now comes after all the solar panels, how will the Council of State deal with it? Will the fight continue, or will you accept that there is a majority here? Now I heard the council say, if I wasn't wrong, it was just a matter of time before the majority was on the other side. I don't know what parties the Council of State intended for then. Will the Council of State now accept what the Church has wanted, and which is also in line with international conventions, to which the Workers' Party is always very concerned to refer in other contexts, namely that religious communities should have derogations in this area. This is about the relationship to faith and ethics. My question is: Will the Council of State Karita Bekkemelm Orheim now recommend the Workers' Party to take the majority's instructions and recommend them to vote in favour?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e670	I think I take it as a compliment that the representative Lånke characterised me as very engaged in this debate. I also want to say back that there was nothing to say to the representative Lånker's involvement today in this matter. I hope the representative did not in some way hesitate with what I said about this being the most important document I have presented in my Council of State, because, as I said, this is a message of value for the Workers' Party. We have taken a position that I believe is right for lesbians and gays in Norway, and on which we stand upright. We were fully aware of the counter-reaction we would have, both from parties on the Stortinget and of course from the Church itself. But in some context, it's not about how much money a thing is going to give to a case, it's actually about what kind of life we're doing to give people who are struggling in this country. That's why it's also very gratifying that the gay people's organization has given us a very big account of what we have presented in the message. That is why it is also very gratifying that the communication is largely endorsed by a majority in the Grand Duchy. No, we have not been wrong, and I think I explained it carefully in my article. I believe that the principle of equal treatment is very, very strong in Norwegian law, and to me it also becomes an ethical question: can we be allowed to have a discrimination clause that should have an exception for the Norwegian Church, when we do not have it in other areas of our society? The decision is, of course, to be complied with by the Government. Of course, we are humble and fully aware of the fact that the bulk of the population decides, but it cannot be that, for tactical reasons and on the basis of research, we should not have the opportunity to present the policy that we believe is right for Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e683	I want to commend the Council of State for its commitment, so there's no doubt about it, it's been very good both here and in the media. It also turns out that there is a broad majority behind most of the points in this big message, and I am pleased about that. I want to quote from the Government's own message, where it says: ‘In addition to the Norwegian Church – and probably also in other minority communities – the official attitude of homophilis is changing, and there is a debate on the issue among membership groups and in the governing bodies. There is also a dialogue with the groups of gay and lesbians within the trudom communities. The experience of these dialogue processes will be that they contribute to more open behaviour and understanding of the homophilic question.’ In spite of this reference to the internal processes of the Norwegian Church, the Workers' Party proposes to amend Section 55(A) so that the Church should no longer be exempted from the provision that when employed, it is not permitted to discriminate from any gay lay or form of life – no other religious society is to be imposed this change – even if one within the Norwegian Church, for example. Bishop Stålsett and the priest in the Majorstua congregation, ask that these processes must be controlled by the Church itself. Why has the Government not proposed similar changes, e.g.: in the Equality Act in relation to the Norwegian Church? The party's raw drive in this case has caused strong reactions. I understand the commitment, but I kind of don't understand the logic. Why does the Labour Party propose this? Do they not trust that the processes in the Church will lead to the desired political outcome? Do they not trust that the theological breakthroughs of which Tom Thoresen was engaged in his post will lead? Is it, in other words, that the Government describes a process in the Church that goes in a positive direction, but in spite of it will promote legislative proposals instead of letting the Church rule? What does it say about the Labour Party's relationship with the Norwegian Church? Is it so that the Church is an extended arm of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e697	Yes, then I must also thank the representative of Greece for the rose. So to the question. I feel I have carefully prepared it in my previous answer, but I can try to continue a little on what I have not been told before. That there should be a so-called raw drive from the Workers' Party in this case, I will distance myself from it. This is about us making a proposal that we think is right. That there will be a disagreement about that, I think we can actually live with, but I want to say that if this is a theological question, why should one then discriminate between homosexuals and heterophilic theologians with the same view? It may also be tempting to ask whether it should be such that the Working Environment Act should protect gay people within the Church while keeping those who are outside outside, outside? Is that really a consistent position? We know that a lot of people who today work within the Church are struggling with the attitudes they meet, and that is why the Workers' Party believes it is right that we remove that derogation from the Norwegian Church. Otherwise, I just want to refer to my previous answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e704	I want to join the roses and say that only the picture that was printed on the front page of the message shows that this is a value debate, a value message, so that rose should have the council. But I want to challenge the Council of State on who she thinks should be responsible for the job further, that is, the job that we all agree on must be done. For us, it looks like the watchbitch and pusher function is added to LLH. We have strongly disagreed with the cuts that LLH got in the time of the last working party government. We agree that LLH should strengthen its ability to be a strong grassroots movement, emerging throughout the country, a first-line service for user groups and others. However, SV believes that the work must also be done by public professionals, in the same way as in gender equality work. Can you imagine the work for equality without what has been done at the Equality Centre and the Equality Ombudsman? Some have to be responsible for development of competences, for legal advice, etc. We see that there will be a need for a centre of expertise and a knowledge bank with associated resources and better continuity in following up matters and developments than what we are allowed to impose on LLH to be responsible for. We agree that it is not now going to create a homonomous bid, but the thoughts that you have in Sweden to co-locate all the representatives with groups who are being discriminated against, under one and the same umbrella, are exciting. There's also a gay messenger. It will be important to clarify the thoughts of the Council of State on the further development and the role of LLH. Can LLH replace a home ombudsman and a centre of expertise? And if LLH is going to do that, to what extent do you see that you need to strengthen LLH? In other words, here it's not just a few hundred thousands if you want to strengthen LLH that way. And then you have to think carefully about not mixing management and grassroots exposure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e713	I have no doubt LLH can act as a good watchman. That's what history has shown us. I have faith in the commitment and in factual knowledge, and although an organisation receives financial support from the public, I think criticism by the public authorities is there when it is actually needed. I think that a separate homonomial can help to spread one from before of little environment, and then it might be better that we try to strengthen the existing environment. We have a tradition in Norway that there is no contradiction between public funding and a critical attitude towards the same authorities. I don't think we can buy LLH, to say it that way. Yes, of course, we should also have a professional expertise and a public competence, so this is not a question of either – or, but of both – and. But of course we will carefully evaluate the situation, and is that the LLH will not do this job, we also need to get back to it and correct the course from the Government. I would like to say that we have not finished the work as we are dealing with this message today. This is the first step, which we should have taken too long, long time back. That is why it is important now that we are able to implement all the things we list in the Communication through concrete actions across the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e722	I will follow up the previous line with the Council of State, because I have not yet registered that the Council of State answered one of my questions, and therefore I will give her another chance. That's the question of whether the Norwegian Church is a religious community. Will the Council of State understand the Norwegian Church as a religious community similar to all other religious communities in this country? Then I have another question, and that I will link up with a quote from an article in the Newspaper on December 22, last year, written by Knut Sverre Røang, who is the head of the LLH, the National Association for Lesbian and Homofil Liberation, where he says a lot about the relationship between, among other things. The central parties and the Christian People's Party and lesbian and gay people who show a very strong respect also for divergent views, which in a way deviates slightly from what has emerged from the party represented by the Council of State today. I just want to quote cards here from this article: «The work on living conditions and quality of life is a major field of work and we have met here in several areas. KRF wants to work for good living conditions and quality of life for all in our country, including minorities, including lesbians and gays.’ I have an experience that here you've really taken us seriously. I want to ask the Council of State if she sees us in the same way that the head of LLH does through this article.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e734	I have no problem with having respect for different views. I also want to send the challenge back to the Christian People's Party, if the Christian People's Party actually has respect for the positions taken by the Labour Party in this matter. It's a respect that has to go both ways. I also want to say that of course it will be that there are also different views in the Norwegian Labour Party on this matter. It's a process, we know that, but it's the way a clear majority in the Workers' Party have made clear decisions on these issues. When it comes to the first question, about religious communities, I feel like I've answered it. We know that the Church also has an employer's responsibility and must think of a protection in relation to its employees, as other bodies in this society must.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e744	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e749	St.meld. No 25 for 2000–2001 contains many good intentions that we can all share when it comes to wanting the best for our fellow human beings. However, it is not only the devout desires that need to be judged, but even more the intentional and unintended consequences with which we as a society will live. What, then, will the consequences be if all the thoughts or suggestions that come out of this message are put to life? In order for us to have the best possible understanding of the consequences, we need to base our proposals on the best possible knowledge. This big message is based on the NOVA report on gay and lesbian. The NOVA report seems to represent a curious empirical basis to build on, which was also the case-rapporteur’s earlier point. The NOVA report has also been scientifically criticised in an article in the Norwegian Christian Medical Association’s magazine Inter Medicos, No. 1-2-2000, where there are several other interesting angles also appearing on the topic of homophilis than the one for which the Storing Message opens. This journal includes, inter alia: a report on Norwegian young people struggling with homosexual problems because they perceive their homosexuality as an unfree and unwanted aspect of their personality. The help that the Government signals through this message to them is either nothing or a top and bottom option, which this group will perceive as condemning. It is a paradox that a message that emerges to focus on minority rights is so ideologically determined that it will not deal with homosexual minorities who have an ethical attitude different from that of the Government. The government writes in the communication on transition from industrial communities to knowledge communities. But it also appears that the government does not seem interested in knowledge development and open research interest. The Christian People's Party believes it is desirable to understand and explain homophilis, and that knowledge of this must be open and free. What are you afraid of? And who are the intolerants if you don't want free research? The world-famous psychiatrist, professor at Columbia University, New York City, Dr. Robert Spitzer, is among those who this year have strayed from their former position that homosexuals cannot become heterophilic. Why should it be OK that people who have previously viewed themselves as heterophiles can become gay or biphiles, while people who don't want to live with their homosexual feelings don't get help if they want to? Unfortunately, the announcement also reveals that the Government will not respect religious freedom, and does not regard the Norwegian Church as an independent religious community. These are almost totalitarian trends. The government’s big message also provides one-sided descriptions of the traditional marriage, where marriage is presented as a framework for the career and self-development of men, and produces homosexuals as ‘pioneers of life forms that become more and more common among heterosexual couples’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e766	There is reason to stress the joy of the broad political consensus that is about most of the content of this message and in the setting. But there is one point in the setting that both surprises and provokes me, and that is the Christian People's Party's point of research on the cause of homophilia. The provocation was not much less after the last article. I'm not a theologian, but with my Western background I have so much Sunday school that I've got that in the religion that I also belong to, we're trained in that it's not all the questions that we as people face, that we'll get answers to. And that is often highlighted. Not least, it is highlighted by the Christian People's Party when it comes to the discussion of genetic research. It is therefore very surprising that one here chooses to mark that a person wants a research on the cause of homophilis. At the same time, this is reinforced by the fact that another note does not condemn all attempts to cure this. This has to be seen in a context. But healing must have the background that one looks at something like a disease, something that humans should walk away from. It is, in my opinion, a strong attack on us as a homosexual, and such a strong attack cannot be undisputed. It's surprising that the Christian People's Party, like Anders Hornslien, was involved in his post, which has tried to raise a value debate in this country, is in favour of such a position. I believe that the last post requires a new response from the Christian People's Party on why they go into this comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e775	I also want to follow the invitation to the representative, Höie, that the Christian People's Party should now clarify its position, because I think that the post of the representative, Scarbøvik, released the cat from the bag. In that way she should have praised for keeping it, for that was precisely the reason why we reacted so strongly to Lånkers posts, because we thought these were the motives behind it. The representative Lånker was nice to wrap it into cotton to a much stronger extent, and made it sound as if the Christian People's Party's motives for this were creating an understanding, a broader social understanding, for the homosexuals and why they are gay, and this was the background to the cause research. But here we see the true face of the Christian People's Party. What you want is to find the reasons for homophilia to do something about it. And I'm not going to say who had such thoughts in this century, in Europe, but if you read your story, you'll see who's had similar thoughts in the past through history. I think it is a scandal that in 2001 people are actually able to defend the psychological torture of people, because that is what we are talking about when it comes to healing. Following the studies carried out here, the evidence is as good as it should be in relation to the consequences for individuals and individuals. I also do not accept that you say from this speaker that the message drowns on this question, and that it is just a small question. No, that's not a small question, because this is perhaps the last point where the real oppression, really the real oppression, of gay and lesbian is taking place in our country. So it's kind of a method, and the results of these methods are so grotesque that it's quite shocking to hear that representatives are still defending it. But the rose must be there – for you to be honest. Of course, the question is also purely theological, and I get to turn the question back to the Christian People's Party: do you also believe in the healing of heterophysics? Do you believe that? Do you believe in cures from heterophilics, and that being heterophilic can also be an undesirable situation in life? Or is it actually that you just assume that it will all be, and that homophilia is basically something undesirable? Their duty is to go back and make sure to give those people who come in such a situation that they have an unwanted attitude toward their own sexuality, self-confidence, identity and strength enough to be whole people. It is our responsibility as politicians. And it is also our responsibility to say from those parts of the Norwegian Church and religious communities that do not allow individuals to evolve in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e790	Since the challenge was given to explain the Christian People's Party's position in relation to this with research, I will try to take it – briefly. I have to refer – because I don't have all the world of time – to the posts I've had before today, especially to my main post, where I think I explained this thoroughly. I also realized that Hornslien had perceived what I really wanted to say, the social desire for broader knowledge, even when it was about this. I would just like to say to the representative of Hornslien and to others who have also spoken here, that I have been on the committee. I take responsibility for having formulated this sentence, and I should be the one who knows best what we've put into it. That another speaker from my party has also expressed itself on this, perhaps in a slightly different way, does not rock that it is what it says, and what I have tried to say, which is the Christian People's Party's approach to this. I haven't tried to dramatize this. I've written a little sentence because I think it's part of the whole thing. It's media, Anders Hornslien – not least – and others who've put this up and created a big, solid problem with it. I can't see that this is a problem, that there should be a lot of discrimination against someone to seek more knowledge. There's nothing else. When it comes to healing homophilis, which he was at the end of the article, I just have to point out what I've said, that this is what we experience as a theological question. I am aware that the Labour Party, and in particular the representative Hornslien, see everything as a policy, where these theological issues are also political issues. We have chosen to look at it differently and not approach them from a political point of view. There are questions that also have to do with a large part of the Norwegian people's internal beliefs. I respect that. Many here have defended the integrity of the Norwegian Church in terms of recruitment. I would also like to be shown the same respect for the integrity of the Church and of Christians – as is the case in this case – on this issue. That's what the Christian People's Party wanted to do. We stand by that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e805	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3367]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e819	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e830	It is almost difficult to go over to a new case when it was as hot as it was at the end here in the previous case, but I will try to talk about kindergartens – it is also a warm and good thing. The working party is a kindergarten party. The working party, as SV, has a strong and warm commitment to children and kindergartens. We are and have been very busy ensuring that all the families and children in this country who want to do so will get a reasonable and good childcare. Therefore, the Workers' Party was a driver during the treatment of St. meld. No 27 for 1999-2000, kindergarten message, last spring. I myself had the joy of being the spokesperson for the cause. In the setting, together with Right, we got a pass for an increase in the state permissions of private and public kindergartens up to 50 pst. before 2005. This would be a good promise for the problem the SV representatives address in the document we are handling today. We're starting as far as the increase in the budget for this year is concerned, and now the Prime Minister and the Labour Party have promised a combined effort that will ensure halving the payment rates on average. The working party, through its municipal proposal, has announced a new and large-scale initiative in the development of kindergartens. We will achieve the goal of full childcare by 2003, so we will have to halve parental payments on average by 2005. Already in the revised national budget, the Stoltenberg government proposes to increase the allowables by 240 million. to reduce the parental payment, i.e. DKr 150-200 per year. month(s) per month a child. Next year, an increase of DKK 1 billion is promised, and in the coming years, the Workers' Party's tightening of the promises will be the most targeted effort made in the kindergarten sector in this country. I think that a government with the Workers' Party in the driver's seat will be the surest way to pass on the intentions that SV wants in this proposal. But we can't be on a max rate system until we have a better overview of what this will mean. It's like Sweden. I'd like to score a couple of points that make such a comparison difficult, at least inaccuracies. First of all, private kindergartens do not exist in Sweden. In Norway, private kindergartens are a very important supplement to achieve full childcare. Therefore, we need to ensure that the system we choose will not remove the basis for the operation of the private kindergartens. This will make the way to full child care a lot longer, and it would be completely meaningless. Secondly, differences between municipalities in Norway are much greater than in Sweden, among others. when it is due to payment, income grade and by-pass. This is not the case in Sweden. But the working party is going to work out a system that ensures that parents have children's space, and that ensures the space at a much more reasonable price than it is at present. Then we expect SV's support for making positive changes in the real world, not just on paper. I basically think that SV is a little petty when they defuse our bet as nonsense and zero worth. Good forces should also work together on good things for the children and the family their best. Finally, if SV is looking at the paradoxical feature of the centre party's involvement with kindergartens when they at the same time want to spend at least NOK 3 billion on cash support. But I think we'd better get back to that in another context. The majority would like to bring matters up to date and suggest that they be brought before the meeting book with different points of view from the majority and minority. It's just SV who wants to make decisions now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e856	After the treatment of the kindergarten message, St. erricht. No 27 for 1999-2000, there is a broad political agreement on the following objectives: full needs coverage during 2003 escalating to 50 pst. State funding by 2005 establishing an obligation for municipalities to provide childcare facilities the development of a guidance board for cooperation agreements between the municipality and private kindergartens The majority believe that the distribution of child care costs should be 50 pst. on the state, 30 p.m. on the municipalities and 20 pst. on the parents. Such a distribution will provide significantly cheaper childcare prices for parents. Christian People's Party has sent several written questions to the Department on kindergarten prices – and received an answer. We are aware that some uncertain factors make it difficult to calculate exactly what a 50–30–20 distribution of expenditure will mean for parents, but it is clear that there will be a significantly lower parental payment. A 20 pst. share, according to the Department's estimate, means that the price per cent. the month will be approx. NOK 1270 for a children's garden space. It's a good piece before we reach a 50–30–20 distribution of the costs. And the parents now pay on average 37 pst. of the cost of a kindergarten space. It means too high babysitting prices for many. In the state budget for the current year, it was added up to a decrease in kindergarten prices. We were therefore alerted when seven out of ten municipalities in our notice that they had to set up the prices. Against this background, the Christian People's Party, which, together with the majority of the Stortinget, has undertaken to work for an acceptable parental payment, has challenged the Government to take action already in the revised national budget for the current year. Unlucky and unexpected rashes should be corrected as soon as possible. The revised national budget is treated in these days. I'm not going to go into it any further now, but the Christian People's Party will follow closely in the development of kindergarten prices. The proposers – Valle and Halvorsen – say that they will ensure that all children in Norway are entitled to a reasonable, high-quality kindergarten. In fact, we fully agree on the objective. But I would strongly like to distance myself from the funding plan they plan to bring about a sharp reduction in the price of kindergartens and school leisure schemes: «The scheme is proposed to be financed by liquidating the cash support.» The Christian People's Party strongly believes that it is possible to reduce parental pay within a relatively short period of time without removing a popular family policy reform, which has, of course, just been shown to meet the needs of many young children's parents for flexible solutions adapted to the individual's situation. Cash support has come to be and will be one of many offers in the future, alongside kindergartens at acceptable kindergarten prices. Assuming that one has good arrangements to secure the private kindergartens, the Christian People's Party believes that it would be better with the maximum price in kindergartens than free core time for all children between 1 and 5. The Ministry, on questions from the Committee, has informed that the cost of free core time for all age groups could be around DKK 7 billion per year. I would like to remind you that it is good and well the double of the cost of the cash support this year. Therefore, the Christian People's Party considers the Swedish solution with maximum prices as one of several alternatives that we want to look at, but Norway must first find a solution that includes both public and private kindergartens. The most important thing for the Christian People's Party is to continue working for many enough and good enough kindergartens for an acceptable parental payment, alongside a freedom of choice and flexibility in family policy for which the cash support is a guarantor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e896	It would be unnecessary to start the big new kindergarten debate now. We had a pediatric message last year where there was a broad majority who ended up wanting to step up to 50 pst. State aid by 2005 and at the same time provide full coverage of needs during 2003. The right is not dependent on either the maximum price or free core time, but we are dependent on lower parental payments. And the most important thing: we're followers of equal funding of kindergartens. That is where the big problem lies today. When it is shown here that the average parental payment is 38 p.p., the reality is that for those who have their children in private kindergartens – and that is about half of it – parents pay over 50 p.p. in many cases. of the costs of kindergarten. I cannot understand why Stortinget has not yet decided to have a kindergarten policy where the money follows the child, which would ensure that all children have equal rights to kindergarten and equal funding. This would also give you the simple and transparent system that is missing today. Today it is impossible to compare kindergarten prices, because the funding is so different from municipality to municipality. If you had known what was the input factor, if you had known what was the income of the nursery, that is, a large state grant, the kindergartens would have had the opportunity to compete at price and get the parental payment down, if you wanted. Some kindergartens might have a larger offer for the children and could then take a higher price, which the parents would then be aware of. The main point must be that we get a system that allows kindergartens to be financed in the same way as schools do, including private schools, by getting a fixed sum that covers what is to be the public contribution, and then we get to discuss how much the contribution should be from the parents. But talking about the maximum price I think is a derailment, because then you do not assume that there may be different offers in different kindergartens. Right will have the price down. We proposed 275 million. kr more in State grants in the State budget for this year. I can guarantee that we will propose significant additions to what the Government has presented in the revised version, and I hope that there will gradually be a broad consensus on getting a system that treats private and public kindergartens in a non-discriminatory manner, which gives us the same funding basis for all kindergartens: the money follows the pod, or the money follows the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e909	I don't think there's any reason to repeat the debate we had in connection with the nursery service, which was dealt with last autumn. It was decided that we would ensure full child care coverage in 2003, and that we would have a funding division where the state would cover 50 pst. and the parents 20 pst. It's ambitious, and it'll probably take an extra effort. We're set to contribute to that. I can mention that from the management of the Centre Party, an initiative was taken to see whether the parties could agree on a bet in advance of the election campaign, so that this matter could be put in place before that. I assume that this is a question that many people are concerned about, and that will be followed up in line with the kindergarten message, and we will take good care of it from the centre party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e918	SV will have a committed commitment to kindergartens and to the school leisure system. We want a commitment because kindergarten is the most important common arena for preschool children, an arena where kids can develop in interaction and play with other children and with adults. Kindergarten is an important part of the lifelong learning cycle. All the experience shows that the kids who have won the big lot and got a kindergarten place are best equipped when they start school. We're concerned that kindergarten and SFO can be a safety net for the kids growing up in those groups with the worst advice. It is particularly important that young people in immigrant families are provided with an organized childcare facility so that they can learn Norwegian language and culture. Then, too, families with ethnic minority backgrounds are overrepresented among those who can afford the worst. Bringing down the price of kindergartens and SFOs is one of several measures on our part to ensure that poor children are not excluded from these important Community arenas, so that differences cannot increase. From this perspective, and assuming that we want the next generation to get the best start possible, we will have enough space at an affordable price. It's not like that today. The kindergarten queues are there, despite all the good goals, and the prices are sky-high in many places. Families with two common incomes also experience child care prices as a burden on the family economy. The same applies to SFOs in many places. Just look at the parent rebellion in Oslo! For the family economy, cheaper nursery prices and lower residence payments in the SFO are more important than tax. We want to use the election campaign and every day to fight higher taxes on children's growing-up environment. We are pleased that kindergartens have become a bit more parties fighting to have the best policies on. And we will, like many others, have full babysitting and lower prices. The goal of full childcare has been there for a long time, but it has been pushed on because it has not been followed up by binding decisions. Therefore, SV will have an individual right to place, as all children are entitled to school space. We think it's the tool that's needed to secure all the kids' space. Then we'll have a liability in terms of price. Here we want Swedish states: a maximum of SEK 140, or 3 pst. of household income per capita. months. The government also suggests that they will go down to this level by 2004. That's good. But the difference between the Labour Party and our proposal is that we are committed. The Labour Party is not, we believe. Whoever will be called the Minister of Kindergarten must commit, otherwise there will be another broken promise, which makes people think politicians are not to trust. So the government says that the big feature of private kindergartens represents a challenge. Yes, it is. But until there are two things to say: private actors have taken on responsibility for kindergarten development because the municipalities and the state have failed. The challenges can be solved by operating agreements between municipalities and private operators, as a majority also said in the context of the treatment of nursery services. I would like to comment on the so-called big effort of Regeringen in kindergartens in the revised national budget. It's proposing 240 million. extra kr to kindergartens. That bet is with respect to report a bluff. The truth is that the government failed to obtain the 8,000 seats the Stortinget had granted in the year 2000. That's why there's money left. SV can promise that we will bring some strained amounts into the revised national budget that can make it possible to reduce prices, as at each budgetary procedure we have prioritised kindergartens. We believe that Norway can afford to appreciate children. We dare to do something about a cash payment that has shown that it has not led to more time between children and parents. Studies have shown that small children’s parents would rather have kindergarten than cash support. But this bet is not dependent on getting rid of the entire cash support. If we can get some compromises with parties along the way, we want cash support to have a different design. Then we believe that municipalities need to get more money so that they can meet their obligations. Last year we asked the Ministry of Finance how much the municipalities were missing in order for them to be able to pay a 30 pst. bet. We were then told that the municipalities were missing NOK 1.3 billion. I am promoting our proposal, and we say and believe that the connection to it is the test of whether the bulk of the population will commit themselves to providing kindergartens and SFO places at an affordable price!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e941	Ågot Valle has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e944	We're in an election year, and it looks like there's kindergartens that are supposed to be electoral for most of the parties. We have just treated the nursery service, and it is clear that there were many who had forgotten to add to that treatment. Of course, the Progress Party believes that it is relatively important to focus attention on the economy of families with children. However, unlike the representative Valle and SV and some others, the Progress Party believes that we need to look at the general framework conditions for families with children. I think it is a bit interesting that the representative Valle wants Swedish conditions in relation to kindergartens in Norway. We have recorded that we have Swedish states in at least many other areas. So this means that the North is fleeing to Sweden. We trade in Sweden, we move our insurance to Sweden, and we even move to Sweden. I agree with the representative, Valle, that if SV gets an impact on its relatively broad proposals, more of us will move to Sweden. So it's a reality that in Norway we spend 37 billion dollars on various transfers to families with children. If we are to take out the one part relating to kindergartens, which amounts to DKK 14 billion in Norway, it might be interesting to compare the relatively broad framework transfers to families with the total transfers in Sweden. Then I also think that the representative, Valle, would have had a little surprise. If this is the case, we must also look at how the parties in Norway prioritise the families of children in the other areas. SV wants to increase the electricity charge, the car charge, want to increase taxes, want to increase municipal taxes, introduce property taxes, etc., which is generally burdensome for all families with children in Norway. I record that the representative Valle says that it is a problem for families with children with two incomes that they do not get reduced child care prices. It might be interesting to reduce the overall burden on families of children, not just this one area. And then I register that the representative Valle is again attacking the cash support. I am pleased that the Workers' Party has dropped the attack on the cash support, but I am still recording that there are still some people who believe it is terrible that the parents now get an average of 1 1⁄2 hours more per week with their child. The progress party thinks it is amazing that we have managed to reverse this trend, so SV thinks it is terrible and prefers to take away the children from their parents and put them in an institution. I'll register it. It brings me to the next topic, which deals with this with maximum prices and this with core time. It simply means introducing compulsory kindergarten for all children, and then at least we will reduce the time that children have with their parents, which is one of the fundamental problems of Norwegian society, I would say. Then it is also that if we introduce maximum prices, it will not lead to more diversity, either in kindergarten or in the school leisure system. Because in reality, within each kindergarten and within each school leisure scheme, there is a wide range of offers, and it is clear that if we are to have maximum prices, the content also has to be similar in order for us to get the same price. It will then be a step in the direction that the Storting or the politicians, with the SV at the head, can regulate what should be the content of the individual kindergartens and individual school leisure schemes. The Advance Party wants – I will take up the thread of the representative from Greece – to take the Right seriously in the revised. And we want to take Prime Minister Stoltenberg seriously, because Stoltenberg has also indicated that if we are to find a solution to this kindergarten problem, the state must take greater responsibility. Then we get to go into the funds that the municipalities spend on kindergartens, equivalent to NOK 3 billion, add them to the government pot and transfer them to the kindergartens in the form of a ‘head support’, or a price. It's the only solution the Progress Party sees when we can't implement our primary desire to transfer all these funds directly to the parents through the child's fear.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e961	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3367]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e969	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map. Before voting, the President will allow himself to say the following: Looking to the future, it is not unnatural for this President to end his meeting with family and administrative affairs tonight! It was not without contradiction that this president went to the office. It is not without reflections when the job is done immediately. The President has learned a lot over these years, including:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t No opening of the meeting unless the representative has been electronically secured! No unnecessary extension of the meeting when the representative Nordtun has taken the plane ticket out of his pocket! No wrestling before whipping in, sir. The Kristoffersen has finished counting and is sitting absolutely calm! This president has occasionally moved on the brink of balance between his inner self and the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. I thank my co-representatives for perseverance! [[Acclamation in the hall]] The President must remember § 39 of Storting’s Rules of Procedure! [[Laughter]] Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e998	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Sigvald Uppebøen Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Inge Wohnung on behalf of the Right and Left Proposals No. 3-5, from Rolf Rikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 3, 4 and 5, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a new primary school purpose paragraph during the spring of 2002.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks in its revision of the curriculum that the primary school will receive a new purpose paragraph from the 2002-2003 school year.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘Full exemption from the 2001/2002 school year is introduced.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e1034	Proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Left, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘A parental-controlled exemption is introduced for those parts of the CRL subject which are not direct knowledge dissemination or community.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e1055	There is an alternative proposal here, proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The primary school CRL course shall be called Faith and Vision of Life.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e1085	During the debate, Inge Wohnung presented a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to submit a proposal — if appropriate. in the context of the Revised National Budget — to reintroduce aid for the partial coverage of school fees for foreign and international secondary school students with effect from school start in the autumn of 2001.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e1112	During the debate, Mr Reikvam put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked, in the context of the 2002 State Budget, to propose increased resources so that one can achieve the objective of an average of two alternative textbooks in the scoreboard for each subject.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e1134	To Case No 4 and 5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e1141	In the course of the debate, Mr Valle, on behalf of the Socialist Left, has put forward three proposals. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an action plan to combat homophobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to submit a proposal to amend the penal code § 232 and § 292 as soon as possible so that, in the form of the law, an aggravating criminal charge occurs based on the motivation for the act of violence based on the sexual orientation of a person.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Homofile’s Youth Phone can be operated free of charge on a green number.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e1178	In the course of the debate, Mr Valle, on behalf of the Socialist Left, has put forward the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to take the following measures:I. Establish a maximum residence payment scheme in kindergartens and school leisure schemes according to the same scheme and at the same level as in Sweden. The scheme is financed by a State grant scheme covering the estimated additional costs of the municipalities that choose to enter the scheme. II. Children aged 1 to 5 years are granted an individual right to free core time in kindergarten. This is done through a gradual step-up, with the scheme to be in place for all as from the autumn of 2003. It is voluntary for children to make use of the offer. The government is asked to present a plan for the phase-in of the plan. III. Kindergarten bet may be financed in whole or in part by liquidating or reducing the cash support scheme.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e1235	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - Odd Einar Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e1238	Although it is a little early, the President should take up the office of governor of Oslo and Akershus, and as Oslo representative, I would like to warmly welcome the President. I would like to thank, on my own behalf – in addition to the applause expressed by the House – for an extremely authoritative, tidy and humorous management.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-31-2.ana.ud1285e1243	The President has noticed what has been said. No one else has asked for the word! [[Laughter]]
