ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e84	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament on Tuesday and Wednesday – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e89	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e94	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings. The representative of Torbjørn Andersen will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e99	I'll make two suggestions. One is on behalf of Per Sandberg and myself that the provisions on night work in the Labour Protection and Working Environment Act are changing to achieve increased flexibility. I would also like to make proposals on behalf of Øyvind Korsberg, Per Sandberg, Per Roar Bredvold and myself that forest properties where there has been a high degree of conflict between landowners and protection authorities are being taken out of the plan to tighten up the forest protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e106	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will propose that the supplementary agenda be dealt with on the ordinary agenda. – No objection has been raised against it and it is deemed to have been adopted. The President would also draw attention to the fact that, in the context of the supplementary agenda, one representative from each of the party groups would be given the floor to speak, without the intention of restricting the ability of the representatives to speak. And then we'll see how it develops.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e124	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into five minutes per party group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e131	The Data Protection Agency is doing a good job. There's no need to stick under the chair. It's important that we have such an organ, and that we thus get control of a lot of what's just about privacy. I want to start by commending the Data Protection Authority for the work that has been done – and for what we expect to do in the future as well. In the future, the Data Protection Authority will place even greater emphasis on supervisory and control activities. That year the annual report is for, in 2000, was the last year when there was a board of the Data Protection Agency. In the last year, the Board of Directors dealt mainly with complaints. In the transition phase we are now in, the Data Protection Authority must deal with two laws, both the Personal Data Protection Act and the Data Protection Act. The last one is the one that's going to apply in the future. Complaints about the decisions of the Data Protection Authority shall in future be determined by the newly created Data Protection Officer. I do not see any reason to address so many of the issues dealt with in the Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority. It is written in a clear way, and it is clear that the job has been done – as I said at the outset – in a good way. But there are some areas where you're stressing that there's been some disagreement. This is true in relation to decisions that have been protested — of course — and that have been discussed. There has been a complaint to the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Justice has made a decision in favour of what the Data Protection Authority initially decided. In this context, there is a special note from the SV, which states that, on the part of the Social Committee, in the Innst. O. No 14 for 2001–02, in a way, the problem is being avoided, so that from another department, the Ministry of Justice is being overestimated. It's not right to say it this way, because that's not what happens. However, Stortinget and Odelstinget are allowed to provide their own homes, and that is what the Innst shows. O. No 14, to which all the parties refer. Then I don't think I'm going to spend more time talking about the Data Protection Agency's Annual Report for 2000. It's a good annual report, which shows that the Data Protection Authority is working according to the guidelines to be followed, and that it is doing a job that is important for the privacy of our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e150	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1195]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e155	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that case No. Case No. 2 and Case No. 3 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e180	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into 5 minutes per group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e187	With this, I just want to recommend the majority position of the committee in both cases, and I have no intention of adding anything from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e194	There is an overall committee that supports the position on changes in appropriations under the national budget for 2001. The revised estimates for additional expenditure or savings are based mainly on the accounting figures per year. 30 September 2001. Programme area 29 Social objectives are reduced by 1631 million. kr. The greatest reduction concerns sick pay. The growth in sick leave flexibility, which was estimated to be 6 pst. in the revised national budget, now estimated at 2 pst. This thus results in a reduction in sickness benefit payments of 10028 million. kr. The members of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre wish to identify the link between sickness benefit payments, daily allowances and social assistance. In this context, I would like to point out that during the budgetary procedure, an overall committee wanted to have a joint body of Aetate, social services and social security offices established. The Christian People's Party would seem natural to look at these conditions in this regard. The number of unearned pensioners has increased less than expected in 2001. The reason for this is a higher rate of rejection. More people try to recover than before, and more and more people go further on rehabilitation money. The Committee has taken note that several long-term health care providers are expected to go beyond the sick pay period and fill the conditions for rehabilitation benefits. The estimated amount of rehabilitation money has been increased by 45 million. kr. It is important that disabled people receive technical assistance so that they can become more independent and better quality of life. At the same time, it is important that the tools are used and that users receive good training. The ‘More efficient intermediary’ project has contributed to this, while contributing to lower expenditure growth. The budget for this year introduced a one-off fee of NOK 2 000 per year. users when lending standard computer equipment. This has a major impact on, for example: dyslexia students. The fee has proved to be contrary to the Training Act. This Act grants the right to free assistance for pupils as part of the fulfilment of primary education rights. The collection of this fee was stopped from May this year, and those who have paid the fee are refunded. The allocation of sick transport is increased. The growth of expenditure may be linked to the abolition of maximum price regulation for taxi transport in some areas in May 2000. Many of the reasons may be related to patients’ right to choose their own treatment site. I think that shorter lay time and increased use of outpatient treatment and day surgery are among the most important explanations of the increase. There has been a lower consumption of transitional and educational support for lone dependants. The amendments to the rules on transitional aid involve stricter requirements for professional activity when the child reaches the age of three. The change in the rules was fully effective from 1 January 2001. In this context, a minority, SV and the Centre, promote a proposal for a statement on the reasons for the decrease in the number of beneficiaries of transitional aid. As mentioned above, an overall committee is behind the position on changes in appropriations under the national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e220	I have often wondered how relatively simple and easy it is for the Government to come to the Storting with proposals for significant changes in the state budget, and in this case in the social and social budget. For weeks now, the Social Committee has been working on the framework budgets for Frameworks 15 and 16 respectively, and only a majority have managed to move around. Thirty-four million. kr. Then today you experience, in the present setting of St.prp. No 22, that the 12th-hour government will have a majority to increase the cost of Framework 15 by just over $1 billion. These relatively large changes in the chapters take place even though the Storting officially revised the budget as late as May this year. I find reason to question whether a person should not expect a better budgetary control from the Government as well – a control state is very concerned about external and external public agencies. Otherwise, I refer to the proposition, where it appears that public hospitals have treated far more patients than provided for in the 2001 budget – yes, in fact, the treatment is more than double compared to the assumptions. This will, of course, underpin hospital accounts today in relation to both framework and input-based funding. We are all pleased that patient treatment has increased, and it has also been shown that waiting lists have been reduced somewhat in the last six months. It is the opinion of the Progress Party that the state must enter and cover the deficit at the public hospitals if the deficit can be proven to be the result of increased patient treatment. The Progress Party has also made a proposal on this in the vote. Accumulated operating deficits for 2001 which the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre want the State to cover will not be supported by the Advance Party. The former deficit caused by county hospitalisation has to be settled by the county itself, which owns it. Finally, I refer to a note from the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party to Chapter 730, entry 67, on palliative treatment and general pain treatment in public hospitals. It is very positive that the palliative treatment for people in the terminal phase is better developed, but it is also necessary to have an offer of adequate pain treatment for other patient categories that have major problems with persistent pain day and night. Unfortunately, we have come too short in Norway to establish pain treatment services in our public hospitals. It must be a minimum requirement that both a regional hospital and a central hospital should be established within a relatively short period of time. I would also like to recommend to the Minister of Health that he address this problem with the Norwegian Medical Association, so that better training can be started for the fast doctors in relation to adequate modern pain management. After all, a majority of these patients are suffering unnecessarily in silence in the municipalities and in the primary health services. Finally, I refer to the proposal of the Progress Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e235	John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestion to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e238	These issues, which have been discussed by many, concern changes in the current year's budget, and in all materially on estimates in this budget. So then you might think that there was a matter of little politics in, but there's still a couple of points that there's reason to pay attention, because there can be questions about what's behind the numbers. This applies to the first chapter. 2650, which shows a decline in sick pay payments above NOK 1 billion. This is, of course, every reason to be satisfied with it. At the same time, however, there has been an increase in the payment of daily allowances compared to the estimate for this year. The same has happened with regard to social assistance. There is therefore reason to point to the close interrelationships that it appears to be between these three benefits. When people can no longer depend on income from work, one will depend on benefits in some form, and then sickness benefits, daily allowances and social assistance are key benefits. It will also be the case that, in periods of high employment, sick pay payments will also be relatively high, while day-payments and social assistance benefits can be expected to decrease. In our view, these internal contexts are not well enough identified, and it would be desirable to look at these contexts in more detail, as was the case with the rapporteur. The other area that's occupying us in SV, is the decline in social benefits for lone dependants, on the cap. 2683. In this context, a reduction in transitional and educational benefits of a total of 109 million is expected. kr in relation to the budget. The government's proposition does not answer to what this decline is about. If it is the case that several single-parents with children over three years of age have come into work, there is no doubt every reason to rejoice over it. If, on the other hand, the decline is due to the fact that more people have lost the right to transitional benefits but have not become economically active, we are very concerned about such a development in SV. In this context, I would like to refer to the tightening-up that was made in the rules for transitional social assistance for dependants with younger children over three years of age, and that was fully effective from 1 January of the current year. These tightenings were SV against, precisely because we feared that they could lead to people losing the right to social benefits without getting into work. I would also like to refer to a study by the Norwegian Institute for Growth, Welfare and Ageing, NOVA, which shows that most single-parents with children over three years of age have had more difficulty now than before. A 35 pst reduction in the number of beneficiaries. From last year to this year, there is reason to ask what this is due to. I fear that many of these have not come into paid work, but have lost the right to social benefits because of the restrictions that were made, and that these are now referred to social assistance. If this is right, there's a development that should worry everyone, not just us in SV. SV will therefore ask the Government for a detailed explanation of the reasons for the large decrease in the number of beneficiaries of transitional aid and submit it to the Stortinget. In line with this, I address the proposal that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have made and that has been included in the setting on page 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e253	Sigbjørn Molvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e256	Just a few brief comments on these two issues. First case No. Two, inside. S. No 57. The operating deficit at public hospitals in 2001 is not yet fully known, but it is clear that there will be a relatively large deficit. I refer you to document No. The 8-proposal that I share with the representatives of Asmund Kristoffersen, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Olav Gunnar Ballo. I hope we can find a solution to this. I find the explanation of the Progress Party somewhat strange, that one might be involved in covering some of the expenses, but that expenditure coverage should at least not go to the County Municipality. Then I think you get a frenetic view of what the county municipality is and should be for the future. It has to be that the cost coverage goes to those who have had the expenses, and then we see how it should be calculated and paid in case of both. So to this with input-driven funding. We're really back to the budgetary procedure that the committee had last week, so I'm not going to take that much of it. But together with the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party in the budgetary position promoted a proposal to go through the effort-driven funding, look at its outcomes, how input-driven funding might lead to a treatment effect that is at the expense of those who are chroniclers, and those who are swing-door spacers, and that one gets a kind of ‘rewardable’ patients who have first rank, consciously or unconsciously. So some brief comments on case No. 3 on today's map of changes in popular security. There are several people who have commented that there is a strong decrease in the health money payment for 2001, and it is isolated very joyful. We're going to hope that it has to do with joyous realities. But what we see is that when e.g. sickness benefit payments are falling, other things are increasing, as day-to-day payments and social assistance tend to increase. As the SV representative was also involved, we want to look at these contexts and get a survey of how this is linked, and what to do in order to have a better overview and also get a much better offer to those affected by this round of sick pay, day-care and social assistance. So finally, a note on changes in social benefits for lone dependants. It's estimated to have a smaller consumption of 109 million. in the case of transitional and educational assistance for this group. The centre party was very skeptical of the tightening up of the transitional social welfare rules for dependants with children. We now see that the number of beneficiaries has fallen by 35 pst. from 2000 to 2001. We hope that the Government will come back with a statement about the reason for the major decline, and that we will be dealt with in a proper way. Unfortunately, there doesn't seem to be a majority for such a proposal, but I'll nevertheless, when the government is represented here, ask you to look into this relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e269	I would first like to refer to the article by the representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, which also covers the Right's views on these two issues. It is a matter that I would like to comment on further, and it is the proposal of the Progress Party and the comments of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party relating to the hospital economy and the economy of the county. Our position is that the government has to come back to the revised national budget with a review of the overall hospital budgets in the light of the experience gained with state acquisition. Hospitals will not face deficits in 2002, and that is why we are voting against the proposals of the Progress Party, although we have some sense of the intentions of the proposal. With regard to the comments of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, there are observations that mainly concern the economy of the counties. That is why this Document No. The 8th proposal on which these comments are concerned has been sent to the municipal committee rather than to the social committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e278	Let me just make a brief remark to the representative Alvheim that when he says that budgetary discipline is important, it is not difficult to join it. With regard to the items actually managed by the budget, it is a clear overall responsibility of the Ministry to contribute to a good budgetary discipline. I'll be aware of that responsibility. But I have to remind you that the biggest posts that the Stortinget today is invited to take decisions on changes in are estimates of which the very basis is legislation, and where it is not the budgetary framework that is governing. Here, the challenge of sound budgeting lies primarily in making better estimates in the ordinary budgetary procedure. But in relation to what I have noticed that the representative of Alvheim has said in other contexts about the need to grant the hospitals appropriations in relation to the activity they have, he should be able to readily join the proposals that the Government has made on those points. I have also noticed what has been said about the need for bet on palliative treatment. I would like to point out that in its 2002 draft budget, which has now been adopted, the Government has just voted in favour of such a commitment. We'll follow up on that in the time that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e286	I just want to comment on two issues that were mentioned by the representative from SV in relation to social security payments. I think that's reason to say that I've noticed the views that the minority have expressed. I also see that there is a need to see the different welfare systems in the context. In fact, there is also a basis for the work done by the Government in this area. So until what has been taken up both by the representative of the SV and the representative of the Central Party in the case of single dependants. It is such that the social welfare scheme for single dependants was introduced precisely to encourage single dependants to take up education or paid work. The amount of the benefit was increased, while the maximum amount of time you can receive the benefit was reduced from ten to three years. The conversion of the social welfare schemes is evaluated by SEFOS in Bergen. A central point here is precisely the extent to which the conversion has helped to ensure that single-parents better incomes by more people taking up education and work. So far, the figures indicate that the conversion has stimulated employment or education, and the proportion of single-parents in work or education was 76pst in 2000. The Government will come back to this matter with a review and assessment of the need for any legislative changes when this evaluation is available for the first half of 2002. I have also noticed that the Social Committee in its position on the budget for next year will also await this evaluation and review.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e295	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e298	Like the representative, Höie, I would like to comment briefly on this with a hospital economy. The committee is very aware that the hospitals will have a deficit at the end of the year. The Committee's comments have been divided into three. The largest minority, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, want in one way to cover the deficit in the county municipality. The heart could well have followed it desired, because after all the years I have been a municipal politician, I know that they are struggling with the economy. But I think it's the wrong location and the wrong budget line to address that issue. The step-by-step party wants to go straight and tell you to cover the extra costs of the public hospitals as a result of the activity. I think there are shades between these points of view. I just want to stress that on the part of the government parties, there is no idea that the government should not pay for what they should or should have covered, nor is there any idea that health businesses should start off with a hidden deficit before 1 January 2002. I think the right way now is that in the context of the revised national budget, the government is going through this in a thorough and proper way and is taking a health assessment of the hospital's promises, where one also looks at – as far as time permits – the experience after state takeover. Then they get back to Stortinget with their suggestions and their summaries in the light of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e307	Since a point was made that was not discussed in particular in the vote, namely this with the hospital's accumulated deficit, I find a short comment on two to three of the posts that have been held here. With regard to the proposals of the Progress Party for the recovery of deficits resulting from further examination, I have a great sense of that proposal in itself. But I think it's going to be a very difficult exercise to figure out what exactly is due to further treatment. That is why, as mentioned earlier, I and several others have promoted a Document No. 8-proposals based on the accounting deficit of hospital operations and the operation of the other specialist health services, and on the basis of which this deficit is addressed by the Government and the Storting. So it's not for the sake of the county as an institution that we're doing this, but it's for the sake of the inhabitants of the counties that have deficits, and it's probably a lot of things. But that's just going to show the accounting. That is why we have adhered strictly to it. If it is to be the case that county councils are going to bring a deficit into the future due to the operation of the specialist health service, it will have to mean a cut in the tasks that are now left in the counties, for example: secondary school, culture and parts of transport. That is what we in the Workers' Party think, and we who are proposers are very unfortunate. As regards the timing of such a post-payment, this is not important. Revised can be a natural time. We have had other issues in Stortinget where one has presented the lead towards revision. So it's going to show up when the committee is going to deal with the work, at what time it wants to deal with this. What is important to emphasise is that, in order to ensure the health of the population, it is necessary that county municipalities do not bear deficits due to hospital operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e316	Although the representative Asmund Kristoffersen initially tried to tell us that it was not the future of the county municipality he thought about with this Document No. The 8-proposal on which the Labour Party is involved, after all, went into the very opposite, that it was the economy of the County that was the concern of the Workers' Party. And the Labour Party must be allowed to be concerned about, unlike us in the Progress Party, which is not particularly concerned about the future of the county. We wanted to put down the county municipality here and now, but we didn't. What's our point is that the state should of course go in and cover the deficit resulting from increased patient treatment. We know that you have treated approx. 2.5 pst. more patients this year than was foreseen in the budget, so it is obvious that something has to be done by the country, so that enterprises do not take this deficit into account in the new reform. So I could imagine asking a question to the Workers' Party and SV, and so far also the Center Party. By voting down this proposal from the Progress Party, I believe that these parties, for the time being, when we are going to deal with their Document 8 proposal, are in a somewhat problematic situation. If this proposal is now put to a vote, it means that the State should not cover the 2001 operating deficit that can be linked to increased patient treatment. Then, in the case of the majority here in Stortinget, one has to solve one way or another, so the best thing would have been if this proposal had been adopted. At least we had ensured that the hospitals had covered their deficits.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e328	Asmund Kristoffersen has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e331	No, it is not possible to draw such a conclusion that if we vote down the proposal, then we have faced a problem. We think, as I explained in my speech, that the device for the proposal of the Progress Party is too narrow. I assume that the government, as stated by Bent Höie's posts here, will come back to what the state's contribution will be in terms of the recovery of the hospital deficit. And then I assume that we, either in such a context or in combination with the treatment of that Document No. The 8-proposal referred to earlier, which includes a wider device, is given ample opportunity to vote in favour of the good proposals that had to be made at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e338	I have a little comment on what the representative Alvheim brought up here. I think the last post to the representative Alvheim was a strong emphasis on the fact that the Progress Party will put the municipality to death, perhaps more than settling the operating deficit bill at the hospitals. Then this becomes somewhat frenetic to me, as I said in the first post. I can't see that what Alvheim says here is as clear as he wants it to be. So to this, among other things. The operating deficits that can be proven to be due to increased patient treatment in 2001 shall be fully covered. Is it not also the case that administrative costs are linked to hospital treatment, which can be counted as operating costs in our public hospitals? Where, for example, are these to be accounted for?? Like the representative Kristoffersen, I cannot see that by voting against the proposal of the Progress Party today, which is so clearly justified in a special direction, we should be prevented from covering the operating deficit for the future. That is not true, and I believe that we have every opportunity to meet the requirements of document No. The 8 proposal that has been promoted by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, and that it must be settled in such a way that it is those who have had the expenses that get the settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e347	I had originally not intended to extend this debate, but Alvheim gave us a direct challenge. The reason why SV does not go into this proposal is the way it is formulated. It is not the case that all patient treatment in hospitals, and all the increase in that treatment, is necessarily a good thing. What we have seen is that throughout the 1990s there has been a significant increase in the costs of hospital operations, and especially the somatic part of hospital operations in Norway, and that we are now approaching 35 billion kroner in costs related only to somatic hospital services. Looking at the funds that now go to the various health businesses, it can be seen that the amounts are even higher. As the wording of the Progress Party's proposal, it may seem that any increase in costs is a good thing just because it is linked to the hospital sector, and that is just not the way to think if you are concerned about using funds in an appropriate way in this country. I have mentioned it a number of times earlier, but I will repeat it: if funds had been used in the health sector in other, more cost-effective ways, at least some of the increases we are seeing could have been avoided. Therefore, SV has also pointed out the concerns of part of the cost increase. In the Social Committee, SV – and received support from the Workers’ Party and the Centre – proposed that the funds be transferred to the travel costs of the various health businesses, precisely to stimulate the proximity of treatment to avoid long journeys. So we didn't get the majority on that. However, it is one of several examples of why, according to SVs, the cost of getting more and more costs is increasing because more travels are going on – we see that absurdly in the case of foreign treatment, where one might face multiple treatment costs for some simple conditions – should be much more concerned with the whole treatment chain, and that treatment is taking place as closely as possible where the user lives, provided that it is medically sound. It means increasing bets in hospitals. This means increasing efforts on outpatient specialist services, on the development of psychiatric treatment in the different municipalities – including children’s and youth psychiatry – because many young people today have to travel far too far from the family to receive treatment. The proposal put forward by the Progress Party is merely a stimulus to increased cost growth, and the Progress Party should, if they were serious about safeguarding the public's interests in a good way, have instead been in favour of the proposal made by the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre, namely to remove the debt in the counties in order to secure the other enterprises for which the counties will be responsible from 1 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e362	Before we move on in the debate, at least the President for his part will say that he thinks he has got an understanding of how the various parties are dealing with the proposal of the Progress Party, so there is no reason to continue so much longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e365	I still need to be allowed to say three things. Firstly, there is no reason to draw the conclusions of the Progress Party as regards the proceedings to be carried out in the Municipal Committee. There are many more aspects that should also be considered in this case, including: administrative costs, deficit coverage in 2001 and deficit incurred before it. In addition, there are assumptions that county councils should be able to carry on their tasks. Secondly, I think it is sad to hear that the aversion of the Progress Party to the County Municipality to those degrees will be allowed to go beyond high school, and I sincerely hope that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are able to review this campaign against a level of government, and see that this is one of the most important strategic instruments we have in the future to be able to save both economic and business, namely higher education, and that this is what this is all about in the future. And third, if we go to today's setting on page 3, chapter 731 of the National Hospital, it says: ‘The Committee has noted that raising the chapter is mainly due to accumulated deficits, which should be covered in order to maintain the hospital’s capacity.’ Yes, if Stortinget had behaved this way to the county hospitals that they do to the state hospitals at all times, there would not have been such a problem today. And it would have been desirable for all the parties that have now joined this, to also join such an attitude as regards the coverage of hospital expenses, regardless of who is the hospital owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e382	After the last two entries by the representatives of the SV, it is at least quite clear what is the background of the SV for that Document No. The eight-proposal that has been promoted. That's the future of the county. Yes, the representative Ballo even stood on the pulpit and said that there is not all the growth in patient treatment in somatic hospitals that is good. I think we're playing a role here that we're rather not supposed to, because at least I'm not able to say that the treatment you give in a hospital should not have been given because of the cost increase. I'm dealing with hospitals being there to treat patients. I further relate to the fact that when a patient receives treatment in a somatic hospital, it is because the patient needs it, and that it is an assessment that a doctor has made. So in this context, the proposal that the Progress Party has made is important – that it is the deficit resulting from increased patient treatment that should be covered. Then it was the representative Karin Andersen who attacked the Progress Party and encouraged the government not to listen to us, at least not in the future of the county council, because it will go beyond the secondary schools. The Progress Party wants a new distribution of tasks, including: the county is no longer included. But I think that's what I'm going to leave to the municipal committee. We are not going to take that debate here. In fact, it is very important that we send a signal to the Government, which the Progress Party has tried in this matter, in terms of the proposal that the deficit related to increased patient treatment in 2001 be covered. If I don't think we can get on wild roads. In this context, the representative Joy was well within the scope of what is to be covered and the future of the county and that part, but that's not what we're going to deal with right now. Now we have to deal with the state acquisition of the hospitals and the coverage of the deficit of the previous year. And it's very important to get in place. Whether this is costly in the future is a completely wrong issue. We are facing an acquisition of hospitals from 1 January 2002, and it is the accumulated deficit for 2001 to be covered. That's not what you're talking about in the future. And then it can't be cost-effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e389	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. [[Votation, see pages 1195 and 1197]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e403	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1200]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e417	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1200]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e431	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1200]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e445	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1200]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e461	This has been a strong fall in the stock market this year. The consequences of that have been many. Municipalities and county councils have also marked the negative consequences. They have received an additional calculation of an increase in pension costs. It's about $3 billion. This is the background to the proposal put forward by Mr Kleppa, who is now under consideration. The proposer points out that the local government sector retains an increase in tax revenue of DKK 1.7 billion. As a result, approximately 1.3 billion kroner are missing that the municipalities themselves will have to cover. Meltveit Kleppa wants the government to give an extra promise of the final amount. The economy of many municipalities and counties is the press. If the extra cost of pensions has to be covered within the financial framework of the 2001 budget, this will lead to reductions in the provision of services. The Municipal Committee believes that they will increase the tax revenue in the sector again in municipalities and county municipalities. The government of Stoltenberg provided that SEK 1.7 billion, which was the stipulated additional income for the submission of the State budget, is to be allocated to the municipal sector. In writing to the Committee, Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, Solberg, points out that tax revenues for municipalities and counties have also increased after 1 October. They are now further adjusted by DKr 1.2 billion and will amount to DKr 2.9 billion. The majority of the Committee notes that the increase in pension expenditure incurred by the municipal sector in 2001 is, in some cases, covered as a result of increased tax revenue. More income may be used to finance the increased pension costs. In view of this, there should therefore be no need for any additional permissions for 2001. The minority in the Committee now points out that the local government sector needs an additional DKK 0.5 billion to cover the additional pension costs, and refers to notes from the Local Governments’ Central Association. There will be proposals for a further increase of DKK 0.5 billion in the 2001 government budget. The minority refers to the note from the Municipal Councils' Central Association, where one believes that the real value of income in the municipal sector in 2001 is still about DKK 0.5 billion lower than that prescribed in the revised national budget. I would like to point out that the Municipal Council has not made contact with Stortinget in order to promote the requirement for such extra rights as the minority is now proposing. The assessment of the cases submitted by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs was drawn up after the memo of the Municipal Council of the Central Union of 19 November 2001. I assume that all relevant moments have been considered, including the contents of the last note. The majority of the Committee cannot ignore the production and the figures presented by the Government for Stortinget. The issue we are now dealing with, liabilities increase pension expenditure in 2001. The Labour Party believes that a reasonable solution to the matter has been found through the recommendation of the Committee. This does not mean, however, that the economic situation of municipalities and county councils is free of problems. There is an imbalance in the local economy. Therefore, the Labour Party believes that the Government should draw up an overview of it and come back to the Storting with measures to correct the imbalance. In that context, I refer to our comments in the Committee setting on the budget for next year. Increases in pension expenditure are likely to create problems in the local economy next year. I therefore believe that the Government follows developments closely and returns to the Grand Duchy with a thorough review of the cases in the revised national budget for 2002. I would like to recommend the setting provided by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e493	It is the economic situation in general in municipalities and county councils and the lack of potential to take on unexpected costs, which means that I have found it necessary to make this proposal, and that is because this is a question of pension costs that need to be covered. As the economic situation is as it is, such an incidence will affect other costs, it will affect the supply of children, young people and the elderly. It is in my proposal: «The economic situation would be so robust that both municipalities and municipalities could cover fluctuations in expenditure. When this is not the case without having to cut the service supply, the Government and the Storting must intervene." There's an imbalance, we all know, between the tasks that the municipalities have today, and the means that are at their disposal. Therefore, many municipalities have also addressed themselves both to the department, I believe, and to the Stortinget, in the situation they are now facing. One of the letters is from Glamdal Regional Council. They say that when the purchasing power of Kommune-Noreg becomes higher than that of the State budget, this is subject to careful assessment and – as a municipality sees it – ‘always withdrawn’. When the opposite is the case, then – once again as a municipality sees it – there must be a very great pressure until one at all is willing to evaluate the problem. They also refer to what happened at the end of the 1980s. The KLP contributions have been decreased in several ways. As a result, the state next reduced its transfers to the municipalities of the State budget. They asked that the same methodology also be used this time. They call it a benevolent and holistic policy. The last thing I have registered in the municipal sector is that a co-chairman of Stavanger has decided to ask the state to help cover these unexpected costs, and it is at the initiative of the Labour Party Group Leader in Stavanger. So it's a consensual decision. So to the situation in Kommune-Noreg, for which Reidar Sandal has cleanly done the right thing. The Stoltenberg Government adjusted taxes and revenues by DKK 1.7 billion. The Bondevik II government made an additional adjustment of NOK 1.2 billion, i.e. that there are additional revenues of NOK 2.9 billion. Then there is also a clear answer from the Ministry of Finance to question No. 153 from the Central Party’s Grand-Group and by letter to the Committee of State Council Solberg that not all municipalities receive the same proportion of these revenues. This is the distribution even if you have income dithering. So KS has shown in a letter -- it's embedded in the setting, so I'm not referring to it, it's taken into account in a minority note -- that regardless of the increase in tax input, there's an additional need of $0.5 billion for 2001. When it comes to the situation in 2002, I am pleased that both the previous and the current government are notifying a review of it and that one will report back to the Stortningen in connection with the revised national budget. It supports the entire committee. What it's about now is a solution for 2001. There has been a great deal of talk from this Chair, both from the Labour Party, from the Government Party and from us, about the need for a safe and inclusive growth environment, about the need for a decent care and also about the need for the resources to be provided in such a context. I find it appropriate to post a word that reads like this: 'Where the will is, there is always a way.' The adoption of today's proposal to allow 500 million. kr extra for the municipal sector, divided by 360 million. NOK 140 million for the municipalities. kr to the county councils, openbert would not increase the activity in Kommune-Noreg. There would be no pressure in the economy. Nor would it have had so much to say for the oil fund, where one has not used funds in accordance with the 2001 budget. But it would allow many municipalities in this country to improve the situation in the most necessary areas, such as several teachers, several nurses, support contacts and organized education. It would provide more disabled people and parents with the possibility of a better and safer everyday life. Perhaps one might also hope that someone would have had an impact on the level of nursery prices and on the SFO property. It is sad to say: the majority did not want to. It was not a will. The center party and SV have pointed in one way, but unfortunately we have not got the majority with us. I include the minority proposal from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e522	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e525	There are some joyous things in this matter. One is that there has been such a large tax input that the municipal sector is allowed to retain. It's very necessary. One can imagine what it would have looked like if it hadn't happened. Then, by the majority, there is also a recognition that there is a major imbalance in the municipal sector, as has also been said from the pulpit today from the Workers' Party. There's a positive new twist that we expect a lot from when the case is going to get its final treatment in the revised national budget. Granting an additional appropriation today will not in any way complicate the review to be carried out in the context of the revised national budget. There will only be another assumption on the ground that the local government sector has been covered by several of its uncovered expenditures. It will have to be taken into account in such a review. On the other hand, for the local government sector, it would obviously be even more difficult not to get this additional allocation now. One cannot fail to take into account the realities of the appropriations already granted. No one knows what will come into the revised national budget. There are some promises and some references that there will be increases, but I think most municipalities know that they have to see the sum before they can start using it, and that they will be careful to put too much into the promises given today. Such a solution, which has been outlined by the minority, will therefore be of great benefit to the local government sector and to the tasks it has – which are the starting point of the case – and will not compromise the work of neither the Government nor the Grand Duchy on the major review to be carried out in the spring. It is therefore sad that there will not be a majority in favour of the proposal. We've noticed the promises given with regard to the review of the spring, and we'll follow through, so that the assumptions that have been made are fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e538	What we are essentially debating is a collective agreement issue — whether municipalities should offer a separate pension scheme at all. The fact that the vast majority of municipalities leave the central association of municipalities to negotiate collective agreements is – in principle and in practice – their own problem. The progress party believes that it is both possible and desirable for each municipality to negotiate separately. It would have revealed the dynamics of a free labour market and contributed to the differentiation of wages and pension resources. Once the municipalities have settled in the situation that they offer pension schemes, it is free for municipalities to choose whether to set up their own pension funds or to join the CLP or private insurance companies. The fact that municipalities which have voluntarily joined the KLP and which have voluntarily agreed to regulate the premium payment now receive an extra bill does not, in principle, call the attention of others. Any additional grant to the municipalities to cover this extra charge, as proposed here, really relieves the municipalities of responsibility for their own finances. So the municipalities that have been awake and that have other arrangements should not receive any of this grant. I have to say that this so-called extra bill is, after all, very small in relation to a local economy of over NOK 200 billion. I've seen private companies manage to make major adjustments, so to speak. And I also disagree with the arguments that argue that this bill is «unexpected». Of course, it should have taken the municipalities into account in their previous budgets and accounts. This excess is likely to be matched over time by an exceptional lower premium base, when the securities and shares of pension corporations are increased in their portfolio. And if that happens, I don't think we'll receive a unanimous claim or wish from the Municipality of Norway to be allowed to pay back money to the state. The State should intervene when the municipalities are in such a situation. This is in agreement with the Progress Party. But then we have to take action on the primary tasks that the municipalities have after all, and that are required by law. We need to change the funding system for the statutory tasks – as proposed by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e551	I feel the need to correct an open misunderstanding. The representative Sandberg produced it so that the DKK 2.9 billion retained by the local government sector in 2001 and which they can use to cover increased pension costs would only benefit those who have a pension scheme in KLP. He expressed himself in such a way that one could perceive his birthright so. For the sake of order, I just want to draw attention to the fact that they increase tax revenue – at the size I call – to the municipalities, regardless of the type of pension scheme they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e560	I also find it worth noting that when it comes to the minority proposal for an additional 500 million. kr to the municipalities and county councils, the way in which this proposal is formulated indicates that this should be allowed under cover. 571 and cap. 572, framework allowance for municipalities and county municipalities, under the heading "Inhabitant allowance/expenditure compensation". It's going to be completely wrong, as the representative Per Sandberg here says, that this is an extra promise that goes to the municipalities that are members of the KLP. This is supposed to go to the frames of all municipalities. This also means that those municipalities that have not had expenditure directly for additional pension costs – for which they exist – of course have the possibility to use these funds in another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e567	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 1200]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e583	I'm a little uncertain about whether I'm impressed or surprised by the commitment that the Right has shown in this matter – the commitment that the government party has shown to try to prevent a grant to several student homes. Now this isn't the place to express my doubts, but at least I'm a little uncertain about whether I'm impressed or amazed. The majority is now redistributing 26 million. kr for more student housing. We're doing this because we know that these 26 million can be used in the current year. I would like to stress: we know that it is possible to use this money this year. There are quite a number of student housing projects that did not appear in the department's priority list when they allocated the year's appropriations. Several of the projects have started, they are building, so that the 26 million can be used in the current year. They may be transferred to those interactions on the priority list that are ready to receive grants. The actual facts are that the allocation adopted by the Stortinget for student housing this year has declined to approx. 911 dwellings. That's the situation – 911 dwellings. The size has previously decided that we should aim to build 1,000 dwellings each year for five years, so that we can build 5,000 new student homes over a five-year period. It turns out that the amount of money that we put in this year does not go to the number of dwellings that we had foreseen. It's because of a lot of relationships. This is because construction costs have increased, due to the fact that several dwellings are built in high-cost areas, so that we did not reach the target of 1000, but stopped at 911. At the same time, we know that in some budget lines that are below the budget of the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, there is less consumption in relation to the budget. For example, we spent 200 million. kr less to scholarship than we had foreseen. This is due, inter alia, to: that there were fewer students. It may also be due to other things, but at least there were fewer full - time students. The Committee sees that we do not reach the political objectives we have set ourselves. Nevertheless, we have opportunities to do that, because projects are going on and because the money that has been allocated to other areas has not been used. Then there'll be a political struggle out of it. It surprises me that it could be a political struggle. Actually, the political struggle should be about not being able to achieve the goals we set ourselves, when we deal with big business messages and when we have our 17th May. That we're not getting there, the political struggle should be about, and not about being able to move closer to the goals we've set. As we can spend the money on this year's budget, and as the various interactions have projects in progress, this is a good proposal. It is a correct proposal, and we are approaching the political goal of 1000 dwellings that the Storting has set and adopted. So a little word at the end: if it's the fear of price pressure, inflation or interest rate rise that underlie the fears of the Right in this case, I think we can calm the Right in relation to that. These 26 million that the majority now decides to use will not increase the level of activity in the last few months. You want to redeploy from private loans. Interconnections have been on the private loan market to finance these dwellings, which would have become significantly more expensive than if they had already received state subsidies. This is likely to range to 60-70 dwellings, depending on where they come, and it is a very good contribution to the housing stock to be made available to students. So I'm glad that the majority is behind a proposal to re-prioritize these 26 million students' homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e604	The Working Party shall support the rapporteur in setting and justifying the matter. I hope the Government is not insistent, but shows the power to act in relation to taking advantage of the additional funds for student housing projects. Let me, however, comment on another aspect of this proposition. The government has, among other things: proposed to reduce the position of native language training for linguistic minorities by less than 30 million. kroner due to smaller needs in the current year, to which we subscribe. But there is a little contradiction to the crisis maximisation of, among other things, the Council of State. The Workers' Party's proposal to adjust the amount by more than 10 million. kr for the following year with a background in the same reasons and information provided by the Government. So it's a $700-million record. kr. This means that for the next year more is allocated than it is used in the current year. I would like to take this opportunity to advise Clemet that in the first half of 2002 she is actually providing support for needs in this area at current rates and that she may come back to the revised budget if it turns out that the estimate is not keeping.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e611	The representative Rolf Reikvam must at least be a magician if he is to be able to build student housing for 27 million. kr from 18 December to 31 December 2001. What the representative, Mr Reikvam, did not say from Stortinget’s pulpit, was that he proposed to cut out appropriations for the construction of student housing at the same amount in respect of the 2002 budget, where he had the opportunity to build student housing in an unlimited number. Before I joined this assembly, I had certain illusions about Storting's professionalism, cleanliness and dignity. After barely three months as a staging representative, several of my illusions are already gone. One of the reasons is the proposal on which the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party are united in this matter. After creating the most interrelated alliance of the year, SV and the Progress Party and met with considerable resistance and irritation over the results of their budget cuts in the fields of parental education, examination schemes, student housing, landlines and ICT, now try to repair some of the most unfortunate outcomes of their own decisions with creative accounting and clear breaches of Storting’s allocation regulations. The majority seem to be pleased to overlook clear recommendations from both the Ministry and the Constitutional Office of the Grand Duchy that this type of proposal available here should not be promoted. As a former lecturer at school, with teaching skills, among others in economics, I cannot fail to point out that one of the first emerging economists learns is that laws, regulations and regulations are to be respected. Without this in place, any financial account will be extinguished. As a result, what the majority performs here would have been judged to have failed in school. It's a paradox that the same majority are in charge of Norwegian school policy. As far as the Progress Party is concerned, I can understand the proposal, because as I see it, the Progress Party disagrees with both the adopted budgetary system and the appropriations regulation. Nevertheless, in my opinion, a majority decision in Stortinget should be respected. I regret that the other parties, which make up the majority, and especially the Labour Party, are involved in this. Although this is unlikely in the foreseeable future, we cannot completely rule out that the Workers' Party will be able to come back to government offices once. Then I strongly doubt that they will like the practice they now share in introducing, and I am amazed that in this case the President does not exercise his duty of guidance to the Stortinge. No matter how much the majority is in breach of the rules on appropriations, and no matter how much you try to decorate already done cuts in the 2002 budget, it has already been demonstrated how little thought and consideration was given to their own proposals. This cannot be explained by creative bookkeeping and procuratorism. On the other hand, the majority of people get comfort from the mountain sweat rule that there's no shame in turning around. In a sense, there is a collective right of justice implemented here, even before their own decisions for 2002 have been implemented and implemented. I am addressing one minority proposal, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e630	Søren Fredrik Voie has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e633	After this ointment from the Right, an economist is trained at a Norwegian university to try some reasoning. It is clear when you hear the leader of the Right fraction in the Committee, that the political sorrow that we experienced for exactly one week when this committee dealt with its majority position remains intact. I also record that it is eagerly supplemented by strong contributions from the Council of State, to which we are going to come back in other contexts. Like other new representatives in this Chamber, the undersigned has wondered a little about the end of the budgetary procedure at the national Parliament. We've now driven almost with fine-skinned trawls through a series of committee treatments of a number of budgets, actually down to below the million dollar level, and so we're going to the final treatment where the map is adapted to the terrain in the form of a series of such balances on the current year's budget, where billions are really flickering, that is. They are largely detected, but they are left untouched by the vast majority of them. It is probably the case that we should have a strong look at one of the issues that will be dealt with tomorrow, namely in the middle of the day. S. No 73 from the Committee on Finance, which looks at the totality of this. I guess it's also the case that we might have to figure out the calculator and look at the calculations in the settings of each committee as to what the economic image in the framework of each committee, which in this way ends, really looks like. And if you use the calculator -- even if the exam is a few years back in time -- it actually looks like it both looks like Innst. S. No 73, on total balancing, and Innst. S. No 53 from this committee, which we are dealing with here and now, is actually economic space for those who want to use it. The Progress Party is in a majority position with the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, in which we still have to participate when we vote later. We also have our own proposals, which I now refer to again, the proposals No. Two, three, four. And when we have it, it is among other things. also with a second glance at Section 7 of the Appropriations Regulation and at what has previously been practised within the regulations that we have rightly opposed to the introduction and continuation of, but which we also believe there is room for action within the legislation relating to. I have let me tell you that previous governments have actually also used this opportunity in the interview to make a lot of changes and additions, so the budget map adapts to the economic terrain. The Progress Party has wanted to use this economic action programme and, in particular, to use Section 7(b) of the Appropriations Regulation, where the term ‘can be transferred’ can be used to ensure that other appropriations where the Storting finds use of the keyword ‘required to obtain the best possible result of the allocation in question’ are actually applicable for our purposes, i.e. within chapters. 282, Private higher education, where we would like to increase the appropriations — the area of the Loan Fund, where we also want to increase the appropriations, and the proposals No. 3 and 4, respectively, private schools and public high schools, where we do not want to withdraw the funds, but make the smaller consumption available in the current year by using the addendum ‘made transferable’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e655	Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e658	The attitude of the majority of the Church, Education and Research Committee today is quite peculiar, mainly for two reasons. Firstly, the position is real because the majority will increase the allocation in 2001, for which they themselves do not consider it necessary in 2002, cf. the cuts in budget revenue. S. No 12, adopted last week. Then I wonder if, among other things, The committee leader can tell me what it is, now just up during Christmas, which suggests that we should spend more money on student housing, while the majority go against it in 2002. Does the representative of Rikvam think that the majority did not know what they were doing when they adopted the 2001 budget for student housing and confirmed it in the revised national budget? It is a little peculiar that what is so important in 2001 is not important in 2002. We can read the same thing in Innst. S. No 73 from the Financial Committee, to be discussed tomorrow, where the same majority and the same parties propose to increase ICT funding by 15 million. kr, while the corresponding cuts are made in 2002. What makes the majority think that the need is less in 2002? The same shall apply to the allocation to the North-Unnet. The second thing that is real is, of course, that this is a proposal which, in my view, is contrary to the rules on the allocation we have. My conclusion is that the majority's actions and decisions on the 2002 budget have become so difficult that one has to resort to additional appropriations in 2001 in order to breathe on. Finally, I believe that this case also illustrates another aspect – the need to see more financial years in the context. I believe that time can now be in place to discuss multiannual budgets. That's really what the Storing is doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e669	The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, together with the Advance Party, adopted a series of cuts on, among others. Student housing, language training, country lines, etc. in the budget for 2002. The same batches are now trying to exonerate some of these cuts by allocating this money to the 2001 budget. It's strange that the parts that are about a week ago decided to cut the appropriations for student housing by 26 million. kr, now suddenly will grant the same money for the 2001 budget, at the very end of the year. Based on previous debates, my state science background may not be entirely relevant, but I'm not quite sure. As a fresh representative, I have tried to read about what are the rules of action here in the Chamber, and some of the things I have come up with are as follows: The Ministry writes, among other things. in its letter: ‘The Ministry of Finance assumes that the proposed additions under cap. 240 items 70 and cap. 270 item 75 will not be used in the current budget term. The increase in appropriations would then be contrary to the first paragraph of Section 4 of the Appropriations Regulation.» The Constitutional Office of the Grand Duchy confirms this in its letter: ‘From the comments in the draft vote, it is difficult for us to see that the proposed appropriations could come to payment in the current year, and therefore the proposals should not be promoted.Furthermore, we find it fundamentally objectionable to grant funds for the current year and make them transferable to the next year, while the Stortinge is in the process of balancing the budget for the next year.’ This is confirmed again at Innst. S. No 174 for 2000-2001, an evaluation of the Budget Reform of the Storting, where the sample writes: ‘The Committee will demonstrate that, when establishing a binding framework for the further treatment of the autumn of next year’s budget, it is important that the system is not weakened by the allocation of appropriations which will not be applied until the next financial year outside the framework system during the phasing-out of the current year’s budget. The problem arises when the funds allocated can be transferred to next year, for example: where the budget line is marked ‘transferable’.The Committee would point out that even if a budget line were to be marked ‘transferable’, this would not derogate from the principle of realistic budgeting which meant that the appropriations would not be set higher or lower than what would be expected to be the actual payment for that date. This is also pointed out by the National Audit Office several times in the constitutional notes.’ 54 million. kr may not sound that much, but that's not the point either. That was 54 million. kr in year. What's next year? The type of budgeting may establish a new practice in budgeting, which may undermine the entire budgetary system. It's interesting to see that yesterday's big business president, Jørgen Kosmo, said that this year's budgeting is completely okay, because the amount is only 54 million. kr. I guess that's hardly any particular principle. Where does the majority of the Presidency want the limit to be set – is it okay with 54 billion, with 100 billion, with 1 billion, or with 10 billion? It would have been very interesting if representatives of the majority in this case had informed what they think the limit is, and how it should be clearly defined. Neither does President Kosmo consider it necessary to follow the position of the Committee on Budgetary Reform, namely that there is a need to derogate from the allocation rules in such situations. The selection writes in its setting: ‘However, in cases where appropriations are adopted on the current budget which are most likely to be applied in full or in part to the next year’s budget, the Board will recommend that an explicit decision to derogate from Section 4 of the Appropriations Regulation be taken before such a decision is taken...’;» The majority clearly do not think that it is necessary to follow this setting either; the recommendation of the suspension, with the exception of the member of the Progress Party, was unanimous. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party once thought, is obviously not so important now, because, as Kosmo says, it says, ‘It’s about a few million dollars...’ Unfortunately, the opposition here is nothing more than trying to camouflage the unsocial cuts adopted in the 2002 budget, such as cutbacks. framework welfare services for students, native language training for immigrant students and country lines. The situation is not improved by the failure of the opposition parties to comply with the budgetary rules, thereby compromising a practice that could jeopardise the entire budgetary system of the Storting. I think this process might be described with something my old history professor sometimes used to say when people did things that were completely incomprehensible: 'They had probably a reason, but some good reason wasn't enough!'
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e703	The minority of the Committee argues with formality on the one hand and with a little policy on the other. I am not an economist and in some ways do not have the greatest knowledge in that area, but this is a matter of politics, not of formality. It is about achieving the political goal of building 1,000 student housing in the current year. The allocation that's there went to 911. There are other student housing projects under construction, etc. who have not received a grant. I think it's a good policy that a thing to fix this by increasing this post by 26 million. kr. So it's not about formalia, but it's about politics. And I would have thought that the minority, when they saw that their goals in terms of student housing in 2002 were not achieved, could actually be pleased that the political goal in terms of the construction of student housing in 2001 is actually achieved with this allocation. Then we are a good step on the way to following the plan for the construction of student housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e713	One of the major challenges the Stortinget will face during this period is to manage the large oil revenues in a way that ensures balanced development in the Norwegian economy. The good purposes and temptations to spend money often come. The examples of countries that have had great wealth and have managed these incomes in a way that has been good for the economy over time are, unfortunately, fewer than examples of countries that have failed. The size has three instruments in place to ensure sound management of the large revenues. We have established the oil fund, we have adopted a new budgetary system, and we have adopted new guidelines for the use of oil revenues, the so-called rule of action. But these instruments are no more valuable than our own ability to respect them. Of course, Stortings President Jørgen Kosmo is right when he said yesterday that today's debate is about small amounts – at least in the big context. The question, however, is not how much the amount is, but whether it is a good idea to undermine the Storting's own allocation rules, the budgetary system and the rules of action. This is not a new debate. The new thing is that the Workers' Party, with open eyes, is now legitimizing budgetary bridging. A few weeks ago, the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and SV cut the appropriations for, among others. student housing and ICT to finance a higher grant in November and December next year. You could say what you want about what was done last week, but it was at least a priority. Priority was given to student housing, and ICT priority was given to financing an increased grant in November and December of the same year. Now you give the same amount as you cut, to some of these items – two weeks before the year runs out. In 1999, the Workers' Party was clearly concerned that it would develop into an additional budgetary round. In the setting, the Working Party wrote: ‘These members’ — Workers’ Party — ‘considers that a more detailed assessment of, inter alia: new age should become an important theme in the evaluation of the reform.’» When last year's Stortinget treated the so-called foreign billion, the Workers' Party stated in the recommendation that: ‘it will open up an unfortunate practice, contrary to the intentions of the budgetary reform, if the Storting now examines proposals for changes for the last two months of the year’. It was last year. Then there were two months left of the year, and then it was irresponsible. This year it's fair, there's two weeks left. In the debate last year, the then fiscal adviser in the Workers' Party, Dag Terje Andersen, said that: ‘Appropriations for this year shall also be realistic for use this year. It is clear from the allocation regulations that apply to us». Tom Thoresen stressed the importance of cleanliness in the budgetary process, and he said that: ‘a prerequisite for such cleanliness is that we grant within the terms for which we are to grant’. I have registered that neither Day Terje Andersen nor Tom Thoresen are members of this magnificence, it would have been interesting if they were. The Committee for the Evaluation of the Budgetary Process of the Grand Duchy gave its opinion on 26 February this year. There they wrote: ‘However, in cases where appropriations are adopted on the current budget which are most likely to be applied in full or in part to the next year’s budget, the Board will recommend that an explicit decision to derogate from Section 4 of the Appropriations Regulation be taken before such a decision is taken.’;» The current representative of the big business Jørgen Kosmo was a member of that committee. That's the situation that was outlined in the setting of this sample, we're now facing. The Ministry and the Constitutional Office of the Stortinge consider that the proposals are contrary to Section 4 of the Appropriations Regulation. We, who represent the minority, must take note that the majority nevertheless chooses to make the proposals. The natural thing in such a situation would be that the President of Storting added up to a treatment form as described in the referenced setting. It was also this form of treatment that was used when Stortinget treated the so-called foreign billion last year. Then the President himself took the initiative to specifically derogate from Section 4, because in the suspension and in the debate it was referred to the eligibility rules. In this round it is not only referred to the rules on appropriations, but the Ministry and the Constitutional Office of the Grand Duchy have said that the proposals are contrary to the rules, and a not insignificant minority here in the Chamber have asked for a derogation from Section 4. Why is this important? Quite simply because we want it to be marked that what the majority is doing today is an exception. If the proposals are to be implemented, there is a need to legitimise a practice that could undermine the budgetary system. I'm surprised the Workers' Party is in that gallery. In the debate, representative Rolf Reikvam argued strongly that the money could be spent this year. I find that the Constitutional Office of Stortinget and the Department are of a different opinion. It is strongly argued that this is necessary in order to achieve this target this year. Then it might be interesting to ask the representative of Sortevik, who has obviously been out there with the calculator, about how many student homes there will be from what you've done in your next year's budget? So is it going to be 800, 900, or is it going to be 1,000? And if that's the main thing, we assume that the majority has budgeted for next year to achieve the goal. But that's not only the question of student housing we're discussing today, but also the grant to NORDUn, which the majority is increasing by 13 million. kr. I record that the representative of Vidar Bjørnstad has now become concerned about the cut-offs made in the mother tongue training grant for language minorities for the following year, and that he is asking the Council of State to come back with higher appropriations if that is not enough. The representative, Mr Bjørnstad, also asked about how to cut down on grants for mother tongue training for language minorities for 2001, while regretting the cut for 2001. The answer is simple: because the needs of these two years are different, and the appropriations should be realistic. The question that it might be interesting to ask the majority is: When will the proposal to increase the allocation of landlines that have also been cut? If you also put that money in, you've actually fixed up all the cuts you made in the school budget for next year. I note that in an interview in Today’s Business, the mayor minimizes the proposals that have emerged today. He believes that it is not so dangerous to break the regulations as long as they are small amounts. I am amazed at such an attitude. If you mean 56 million. kr is within the framework, where is it when the limit goes? I am afraid that the Stortinget will have more problems when you have such an attitude towards the Stortingen's own allocation regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e772	What is now happening is not in line with the intention of the budgetary reform and the regulations governing the exercise. A promise entirely at the end of 2001, which one then transfers to 2002, weakens the content of the realistic budgeting provided by the new 1997 budget reform tool. There is no need to change the reality of this situation, because a simple grip allows one to stay within the gamblers that the Storting has set for almost half a year ago. Int. S. No 87 for 1999-2000, the Labour Party was very concerned about this. They asked for a more detailed assessment of the particular relationship with the ageing process in the evaluation of the budgetary reform that was expected. And the evaluation committee concluded with: ‘However, in cases where appropriations are adopted on the current budget which are most likely to be applied in full or in part to the next year’s budget, the Board will recommend that an explicit decision to derogate from Section 4 of the Appropriations Regulation be taken before such a decision is taken.’;» This ended the Presidency until that time, and so did the Storting. I'm becoming somewhat uncertain when the president of Today's Business yesterday says that the amount this is talking about is so small that "it's completely unnecessary to make a very serious case of it," because I thought the principle was okay. There should be no particular concern to take decisions on exemptions from Section 4 of the Appropriations Regulation. The uncertainty that has arisen is very unfortunate, and questions that lie and moan, are: Is there anyone who has now changed his mind in relation to what they meant in ours? And: Has the Labour Party changed its attitude to the 1997 budget reform as it now appears that they will not vote for the principle for which they themselves so strongly advocated and for which they themselves asked for further confirmation through the Evaluation Committee's work? The insecurity that is about to occur is very unfortunate. And the question is, is it really the attitude of the Progress Party towards the budgetary reform that the majority is now confirming?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e790	It was referred instead by the representative Voie to the mountain sweat rule that there is no shame in turning around. I immediately think that there is another mountain-wet rule that suits the minority's suggestion, namely to bury you in time. This case is very special, I think. I do not remember any other matter that I have been involved in dealing with, where so many right-wing representatives have come and bothered me because I have been involved in cutting 26 million. kr for student housing. And there's a little bit of one part of the heart of the matter here: within the budgetary framework that the church, education and research committee had to deal with, there was too little money for us to manage to get to all of the ambitions that we actually wanted to achieve. It bothered me, and it bothered a bunch of SVs something completely into the review to be having to cut so much on the budget that came, because there was too little money in the budget from the Government. It bothered me a lot. And when we see the opportunity to achieve the goal of last year's 1000 student homes, it's clear that we're taking that chance. The goal of the fourth year was 1,000 student homes, and we couldn't do that because there was too little money in the budget. And then I think it's strange when the representative Lyngstad here instead asks, why in the world didn't you bring this money earlier? Yes, that's how the money for student housing was granted in the month-on-month change from August to September. This is the first aging that happens after that allocation took place, and then it turns out that there was too little money to be able to build the 1000 student homes. And what's really bizarre is that the same parties, especially the Right, that spend a lot of time and energy criticising our cut in the grants to student homes, they are now starting to fight with beaks and claws to prevent the construction of as many student homes in the current year as what was actually adopted by the same parties last year. I think the Clemet State Council must be the first government council to have a party on the Stortinget that sits down and blue-necks and will prevent you from getting more money so that she can make sure that there are more student homes built. That's what's at the core, also the core of all this formalistic. The point is, they say, it's not possible to spend this money this year. The letter from the Ministry of Education, Education and Research does not say anything at all if it is possible to allocate money, but it is left to the Ministry of Finance. So today, student housing is being built on Lillestrøm, and student housing is being built that would have received money if there had been more money in the budget this year. This project would have received money, so that it could have been built student housing. Now these dwellings – money has been requested for this – are instead the usual rental homes. It should be fully possible to make a decision in the department during the period 18 to 31. December, i.e. from now until New Year, to grant this money if you think this is a worthwhile project. And we believe that in SV, and that's why we can say with our hands on the heart: we do not violate any allocation rules when we say that this money can go to projects that are already in progress and that it is completely possible to grant money. The student housing projects get most of their money in advance of the construction, and it is, as I said, entirely possible to give money to such a student housing project if you like. And once again, it's when I think it's incredibly strange that Right on Death and Life will fight to spend more money on student homes this year. I would therefore like to ask a question to the Council of State: is it true that it is completely impossible to allocate money on the current year's budget? Or does the Council of State think it would be possible to look through the pile of applications that were not found worthy, because the budget was too scarce, and see if she can give any money there this year? I know that by Friday at the latest, the Council of State had a meeting with the Student Association of Oslo and Akershushøk Schools, and it should be possible to achieve such a solution during the week at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e803	This is a costly debate to sit and follow, and it becomes very costly when you hear the government parties present the very opposite positions of those they had just one year ago. I registered that Jan Tore Sanner referred from last year's debate, when the Stortinget granted NOK 1 billion for foreign operations. Then the current government parties had the sting of the opposite argument, and the Workers' Party, which was then in position, had the sting of the opposite argument. The point is that this is about political will. So Trine Skei Grande goes high on the track and says it was 54 million. kr in year. What's next year? This has to be an innovation, because we're going from $1 billion last year to $54 million. kr in year. And the government parts are sitting here and raising themselves up to the big heights like this -- that's 54 million. DKK over a budget of several hundred billion – would create major difficulties for the governance of the Norwegian economy in the years to come. So, Jan Tore Sanner, in his introduction, started to present our major management problems related to our oil wealth, and that the Stortinge had set up three sets of management systems to sort this out. He then referred to the rules of action, budgetary systems and the oil fund. I want to remind you of another kind of special thing about this new aging. In the Government's own proposal to re-age the budget, there are very many proposals making appropriations transferable to next year. The rationale is not the same for everyone. The government itself has varying reasons why, on varying budget chapters, it is now necessary 14 days before the end of the year to make funds transferable. One reason is the need to see the allocations over several years in the context. Another reason is that you're a little uncertain about whether you can pay a bill before the end of the year. Yeah, there's a lot of reasons. But why is it that it is more correct when the Government proposes to make a grant transferable than if the Storting does the same, as de facto is responsible for taking decisions in the new era? If it is that the purpose of the ejaculation is not to be able to make any changes, why does the ejaculation have to be treated? And why then does the Government itself promote proposals for changes that the Government itself believes are necessary to make? But if the Storting is of a different opinion and chooses to do other things, then the Government is quick on the ground and believes that the Storing is doing things that are contrary to the regulations, despite what the Storing is doing, is exactly the same as the Government itself has proposed. I think it's very special that the government parties allow themselves to go then to those degrees high on the track for 54 million. kr. Now we have just concluded a budget debate, where the budget negotiations have collapsed on the basis of a few hundred million dollars. And if you look at the changes proposed by the government itself in the new era, it probably amounts to more than what led to Bondevik asking cabinet questions in the budget for next year. It is part of undermining the budget, not that the Stortinget in the tamp of the year takes a decision to see appropriations in conjunction over several years because it is committed to ensuring the smooth financing of student housing. And that's why it's provocative to read in the position, where it says that the minority fears that the majority can establish a practice that can undermine the budget system of the Storting. It was probably the representative Voie who went high on the track and talked about that this was creative bookkeeping and procuratorism. I suggest that the government parties first go on their own and make sure that they themselves do not use procuratorism and creative bookkeeping, before accusing other parties of doing the same. So here, there's a big difference between life and learning in the three parties. It can be seen that these three parties have changed their perception from last year to this year. It's because one and only these three batches have gone from being in opposition to being in position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e816	The President now has four more on the list of speakers. The president seems to me that the theme may be interesting to continue to discuss, but we are now beginning to familiarize ourselves with all of the parties' positions on this. I just mention this before we go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e819	According to Søren Fredrik Voie, the majority has not passed. He has carried out an evaluation and the evaluation was clearly ‘not passed’. I feel reasonably confident, yes, that we have been successful in relation to our own political decisions, and it is important to evaluate it in relation to. So that was the actual ratio. I said it in my first post, and I repeat it: we've adopted a goal, which the right has also been involved in, that we're going to build 1,000 student homes. We granted from that for the current year an amount that turned out not to be enough. We didn't get any further than 911 homes. And then we get an opportunity to fix this, because we know that this money can be used this year. These are dwellings that are built or in the process of being built, and the general rule is that they will interact approximately. 80 pst. of the grant at construction start. So several of these projects could already have been committed if there had been enough money. Unfortunately, that wasn't enough money. So I said in the budget debate that I was sorry that we had to cut in student homes next year. I don't think that was a very good situation, but that's the priority. The government has pointed out to us several times. We went in and gave priority, and that meant we didn't have to cut in student homes for next year. If we can manage 1,000 student homes next year, I don't know, it's a little dependent on which homes it is that receive grants. We know it's cheaper somewhere else, and if it's 800, 900, or 1,000, we'll have to wait and see. But the goal is at least to be able to build 1,000 dwellings every year for five years, so that we have 5,000 dwellings when the period is over. So finally, the reduction in the mother tongue education that the majority has gone through at something over 10 million. kr in relation to a budget of 725 million. NOK, was not a cut we wanted to make. But we know that for the current year we granted approx. Twenty-six million. NOK too much on this item. It was a 26 million under-use. on the appropriations we had for the current year. And of course, through this proposition, we have now removed them. This is a rule-driven allocation. That means that the consumption depends on the rate multiplied by the number of students. It's very uncertain, but based on the experience we have in the current year, we think it's possible to make such a reduction without going beyond the level of activity. I would like to stress, as clearly as I can, that the majority is clear that the rate should remain unchanged. The rate on which the grant is based shall remain unchanged. The beginning of dealing with the bet is completely unacceptable in relation to what the majority has said. If it turns out that we were actually bombing, that our budget allocation was bombing against the level of activity we get next year, we have to get back to it at this time in a year's time when we're going to review the various budget lines. So finally, I just want to remind you that in one of the items, there's a sub-consumption of 200 million. kr. There is not one in the room but me who has said that we bombed on it. It's not mentioned at all, but it's that we now want to grant 26 million. kr more, will be the big battle cause. I'm surprised, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e832	That's cutting 26 million. Of course, the allocation of student housing is a very painful political cut, and especially when there is one thing you have held a high profile in the election campaign. But the budgetary procedure is also about dealing with what you do, and about what you actually think. Also SV has to take responsibility right now. And in order to follow up the representative Holmås' proposal to apply the mountain weather rules, we also have a proposal here to follow the map and compass. There might be something SV should do, i.e. follow the rules of the game. The representative Holmås told me that there was too little money in the budget. There was too little money in the frame, and it bothered the representative Holmås something “all the way into the review” that there was not enough money. I fully agree that there is a need for more student housing, and that is exactly why the Cooperation Government has granted 26 million. kr extra for the construction of student housing in 2002. The additional appropriations removed the cooperating parties in the Committee by a penneträk in order to obtain money for a token issue to introduce a grant of 40 pst. – for some students – in November and December. To put it the way it is: the Socialist Left Party and the bad conscience of other parties cannot justify a departure from a budgetary system that we all agree to have. Rune J. Skjelleraa from the Center Party said this is about meeting the goal of building 1,000 homes a year. Yeah, that's right. But then you can't cut the 26 million. kr in the 2002 budget, and in addition try to get praise for some way of restoring that money in 2001. So it's not an increase, it's a cut. You don't admit to being cut, but you try to find a way to make this as painful as possible on a political level. As a new representative and as a new member of the committee, I'm a little surprised that as soon as SV, one of the parties that has talked the most about student housing, they get caught up in political power, they can't deal with the rules that everyone else is dealing with, and they can't stand by the cuts they actually do, because they're bad. Siv Jensen said it was about 54 million. NOK, which was not so much. This is not about $54 million. kr, it is not about NOK 1 billion, but it is about the principle of derogating from the Regulation. All the other parties could also find very many good purposes to spend money on exactly the process we're in today, but we're following the rules, and that's why we don't find money for all sorts of good purposes at the end of the year. SV must also give priority, and SV must also support its cuts. I think it's cowardly of a party like SV at the end of the year to figure out a sort of budget solution because you don't have the spine enough to resist your cut politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e847	In the opinion of the Progress Party, there is an economic space for redispatching at the end of the year. In the opinion of the Progress Party, there is also a formal basis in the Appropriations Regulation in order to be able to do just that. And thirdly – and perhaps most importantly – in the view of the Progress Party, there is political room for action to re-prioritize this process at the end of the year. In fact, in many ways we have greater room for action this week when we now finalise the budget for the current year, than what we had in many ways a week ago when we finished the budget next year. So it's a political space for those who want to use it. When you listen to contributions from members of some of the current government parties, it seems that they talk away the money in their eagerness to process the principles. But what matters is to provide money for those who want to enjoy it and benefit from it. And then it becomes, as I said, with wonder you hear several of the contributions from members of the government parties who are concerned about closing the door again for money that exists. So, at the end of the year, when the Stortinget now closes its budgetary procedure for 2001, we are almost watering down in the availability of money. It is also the case that the rules adopted for the examination of the framework budget within the Committees are very strict. We haven't been a part of it, but we had to deal with it when we were dealing with the new budget a little while ago. I think most of the parties will take inwards and also admit that when you give in additions, there are aspects of the containment that are not all as happy. And that must actually be an opportunity to express. After all, the fact that you are looking for a possible discovery where there is money, in the following week’s budget, cannot come as a big surprise. On the other hand, it is more surprising to witness the exercises of a number of parties in closing their eyes because that money exists, and that they are more concerned with the process than with political decisions that can give money for the purposes you are so eager to defend – at least it is said from this pulpit that you are eager to get money. Then it’s strange to turn your back on the money when they’re there, and they’re in the budget for 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e858	Since the President of the Council of three speakers referred to the fact that there were four speakers left, he will state that there are still four speakers left! The president only mentions it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e861	I agree with the President that the positions of the parties are known. But if there's going to be an attempt to limit the debate, I would like to remind you that in most cases the positions of the parties are actually known through the setting. This would put an end to debates in this Chamber at all if it were to be a wish. – But I will try to be brief. What we've experienced over time is that the imagination is almost inversely proportional to the space of action in terms of finding solutions that are for the benefit of most people, and that are understandable to most people. We now experience that one day of the year financial analysts are observers of the responsibilities of the budget, and that determines interest rate developments in the short term. But if the accounting figures for the same year show over-consumption, as we have experienced up to NOK 13 billion, there are hardly enough people in this room who raise an eyebrow, and it also gives no visible impact on interest rates. Of course, you can discuss what the interest rate would have been like if you hadn't spent $13 billion more in the course of the year, but it actually shows that we've shut ourselves down so much in relation to finding solutions that we have to put the imagination into practice in other ways. I have therefore also experienced that government councils have proposed to convert a state institution into a limited liability company on the grounds that the State budget was not able to provide enough money for state institutions. By transforming into a limited liability company, the same institution would be able to go to the bank and borrow the necessary funds and thus finance all the necessary measures – as if it were to give less pressure to the economy to go into a bank and borrow money for domestic use than to get them granted over the state budget! But it shows that in more and more areas we have to employ an imagination that is hardly appropriate for this assembly in terms of finding appropriate solutions. I really came in here to participate in the next debate, but I must say that after listening to a number of speeches here, it ran me through the defence committee last week. I should have been able to understand the indignification of the government parties if the government parties had been consistent. But it's actually no more than a week since the Storting unanimously joined the Government's proposal to spend 44 million. kr to fill up the Air Force fuel stocks now at the end of the year, an allocation that could have been granted on next year's budget, and which should have been given on next year's budget, but where the Government had not found room to increase the defence framework for next year, and thus in the regrouping proposal, which we dealt with last week, proposed an additional allocation of 44 million. kr. There was not one in this room who lifted a finger to oppose that proposal. In fact, the allocation was not made transferable, but the fuel storage became transferable! It shall not be used at the end of this year. It will be on the tank and used for next year. The principle is going to be the exact same thing. And so I have to say that the indignation shown by the government parties here falls on the rock floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e875	I have received a few specific questions that I would like to answer. The first question, which has been repeated here several times, is the parent language training. And the question is this: how can we reduce the budget in 2001 if it cannot be reduced for 2002 without having negative consequences? The answer to this is that the need for the two years is different and that the appropriations under the Appropriations Regulation are to be realistic for each year. Then I have a specific question about student housing, whether the funds that may be granted extra can be used in the current year. This question has been answered to the Committee in the past, but let me just repeat here that the keyword «can be transferred» is given in cases where portability is necessary in order to achieve the intended results of appropriations, such as: in the case of construction appropriations where the time of disbursement depends on the progress of the work. The Ministry has informed the Committee in its letter of 10 December 2001, and we have also explained that before any increase in the appropriations is made, unused funds will be transferred from 2001 to 2002. The amount is not specified in the letter to the Committee, but is now due to a transfer of between 60 and 70 million. kr, which is bound by commitments made in the past. Project plans with a realistic cost framework must be submitted to the student housing advisory body before the department pays grants. This is reflected in the guidelines for the management of the grant and is a contribution to ensuring the implementation of good construction projects. On this basis, I regret to assume that the Ministry will not be able to pay the proposed additional appropriations in 2001. It has been said in the debate here today that this is not about dealing with formality, because this is politics. To the extent that there's a difference between formalization and politics, I think I'm wise to relate to both.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e886	This is a debate where the minority continues to say ‘cut, cut’ long after they see the case lost. And I'm a little surprised that parties who themselves think it's painful to cut student housing allowances, don't agree to try to find an opportunity to get that money back. If we could just for a moment focus on what we're all saying we're busy! SV was completely open when we dealt with the budget, and said that we did not think it was any good cut. I believe that both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have many such experiences in which they have been involved in budgetary settlements, where they have had to agree to cut them off, and where they have not exactly defended it with the greatest glow and the sharpest claws when they have been confronted with it, but on the contrary, they have intended to try to correct this on the first occasion. That is what SV said during the budgetary procedure. This was not what we wanted, on the first occasion we were going to try to fix it again. And we have. We're also going to pursue this case to the next year in the revised national budget to raise it even more, and also in other opportunities that were to take place. I might also like to remind you that the additional appropriations that came to this in the budget agreement came after the first cut of 34 million. on housing for young and disadvantaged people. That was the starting point. So it's very hard to understand that SV does not represent what we're doing, and does not follow the same direction. On the contrary, we've been completely open on this all the way. And I don't know if we're going to continue a debate where the minority today says, look at SV, they cut 26 million. kr in the budget. And then we're going to keep pointing at the minority and say, "No, but you wouldn't be there when we were going to allocate $26 million. kr today. I think it's a childish way to debate. If we're busy with more student homes, we're trying to get it done, and that's what we're doing right now. The formal debate that we have heard today, where there have been very big words when there are small money being moved on, while it is not said a stone's word when it is heavy sums being moved on, I don't think I have been very good. If it is that the government parties and the minority today want such rigid formalism as they have addressed today, it means a completely different treatment of more matters than what we have had, and that means a completely different and much less possibility for the Government in its balancing propositions to the Storting than what you have had. And I doubt that's what the government parties and the minority really want.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e897	I just want to follow up on some of the things that have been said in the debate earlier. SV has been accused of not taking responsibility. That's exactly what SV has done. We have entered, and we have taken responsibility, both now and in the budget. This is not a sneaking-up of student housing in the year's budget, as it has been said. Together with the majority of the Committee and of the European Parliament, we will now use the political space that lies there to be able to follow up on the Storting the objectives that we have set ourselves politically. I think it is alarming, as has also been said earlier in the debate, that the minority is so steeped in the idea that it is a sneaking in when we together at the Stortinget have set ourselves the goal of 1000 student homes. It has been difficult to deal with the budget framework, but we, who have the majority, have made it clear, where the government parties have established a budget of about 240 million. kr less than the budget of the Stoltenberg Government. It has been a tough thank-you for SV, but we have managed to be in a majority who have turned the budget into a much more socially profiled budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e906	I have no problem understanding that it was bad for SV to cut in student homes, that it was bad to cut in support for minority students, that it was bad to cut in ICT to high school. But that is not what the debate is about. The debate is about respect for the stork's admissibility rules; it is about respect for the budget system of the stork. It's a question of whether we're going to sit and see that some parties are involved in undermining the budgetary system and legitimizing a practice where you just let the money slip from one year to the next in violation of Storting's own rules. I record that both the Progress Party and SV strongly argue for such a practice. It is quite clear from today's speeches, which argue that when there is economic space at the end of the year, we have to be able to do it that way. We're going to have to take note of that. But what's amazing is that the workers' party's representatives behave quietly like oysters. No one from the Workers' Party has commented on the breach of the eligibility rules, no one has commented on the question of undermining the budget process of the Storting, for which the Workers' Party has been very concerned in previous years. I refer to my main post, where I referred both to the recent ageing in 1999 and to the debate on the foreign billion last year, where the Workers' Party was very clear in this matter. I would like to challenge in concrete terms the financial fraction of the Workers' Party, which I also see is present here, whether they have changed their position and believe that it is right to establish a practice in the Grand Duchy where there is little emphasis on respecting the rules on appropriations, where there is no such commitment to the budgetary process, but where, on the contrary, we go along with the SV and the Progress Party and are involved in undermining them. I allow myself specifically to challenge the Workers' Party. I think it's important for the debates we're going to have in the years to come. Blackevik says it's a financial deal. Yes, it is. Then, of course, you can go up a debate if it's wise to use more, but I'm going to let that debate lie. Blackvik further states that there is also a room for action in the regulation. Yes, there is a room for action in the regulations if one departs from Section 4, and that is the matter. We note that the majority has chosen to make a number of proposals, even though it has been pointed out both from the department and from the Constitutional Office of Stortinge that it is contrary to the rules on appropriations. However, we insist that it would have been quite concrete to derogate from Section 4 when making such allocations. I refer again to the evaluation carried out by the budgetary reform. The interesting thing is that this evaluation was presented in spring, and then you use the first and best opportunity to break one of the conclusions of the evaluation, namely that when appropriations are made that will be applied in full or in part to the next year's budget, it is recommended that an explicit decision be made to derogate from Section 4. Let me also quote from the treatment in Stortinget on 14 November 2000, when the so-called foreign billion is being treated. When one came to voting, the president said: ‘Before we proceed to voting, the President will note that he has registered that it has been referred to the Appropriations Regulation as well as in the course of the debate... From this point of view, the President believes that the Storting should decide to derogate from Section 4 of the Appropriations Regulation when dealing with this matter.’ I think the President is wise to follow the same procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e926	This concerns respect for the rules on appropriations and the budgetary system, said Jan Tore Sanner. This is equally about respect for the previous decisions of the majority of the population. I want to put this into a slightly larger context, as the debate we have now is part of the balancing debate, and will continue tomorrow. It's quite amazing that an amount of $54 million. kr may incur as much exposure from the three government parties, in relation to the sizes de facto in total in the re-saltation. The three government parties deal with a long guess of the following two facts: the fact that more than DKK 15 billion have been paid in taxes during 2001 does not seem to concern the three government parties worth mentioning. It is a fact that in the autumn of 2000, when we adopted the budget for this year, the Stortinget decided to use 12 billion kroner. That amount was subsequently adjusted in the context of the revised budget this year to NOK 3.7 billion. The government has now found, because of so much tax revenue, that it should not be used at all – and is dealing with it with a large yeast. Here you could have done something! Here, instead of using arguments like Jan Tore Sanner just did, you could have done something instead of being fanatical about maybe slipping a few billion dollars from one year to another. What about the fact that instead of being granted for good purposes, a lot of money that the Stortinge has decided to spend is going into the oil fund? It becomes completely parochial when you have almost hysterical conditions during the financial debate, which talk after speech is on this pulpit and tell you about the importance of not using one penny more or one penny less. That's exactly how the government has now decided that we have to have it, in order for the Norwegian economy to be good, and for us to get the interest to be like this and the development to be like that. But when you have significant deviations in the course of the year – we are talking about deviations in the billions class – you get a long guess. You shouldn't worry about that at all. But making a formal debate of 54 million. Since the parties to the government have lost a political cause, one must therefore do so. I think that's very unreasonable. I also want to recall in that perspective the debate we had just a week ago, when this room took a position on how Norwegian strength contribution to Afghanistan should be. That debate came just after we had adopted the budget for next year. Just after that decision was taken, the Government found out that it was possible to exceed many appropriations due to Norway’s potential involvement in Afghanistan. When we put the budgetary question on track in this context, we were told that it was unworthy to put the budgetary issue on track when we discussed something as important as Norwegian participation in Afghanistan. What's unworthy? If we propose to do something about the unworthy conditions in Norwegian health care or with the unworthy conditions of increasing crime, the same parties come on a rolling basis and say: budget, budget, budget! But because the government parties themselves had a different starting point, one should not interfere with such small things as budgetary matters. It says something about how this entire budgetary process is, and it says something about making sure you put this into perspective before you go completely off the $54 million shift. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e937	Let me first tell you that I had drawn myself on the list of speakers before Jan Tore Sanner's salutary posts where he said that the Workers' Party is very passive. We don't, we don't act tame at all. But this has become a serious debate on a very small – very small – issue. The policy in this case is to maintain the 1000 student housing that students have been promised in the past. The amount is 54 million. kr. And then you're turning almost the whole world on your head on this case! I can assure the Right and the Government parties of one thing: the Labour Party will be burdened and broken in relation to the budget regulations, the rules of action and the rules governing the oil fund. There's no doubt about it. But when you go as high on the track as the government parties do, I think you should be a little careful. You have to think a little bit about the story, and you have to think a little bit about what's going on in this room, in the previous days and tomorrow. We're doing a bunch of transfers, and so on. – once in a while – to make the machinery in Norway go. And then you make a huge case of this, as if it were all about the rules! I have to ask the government parties – because I think the government council had a much better angle on the matter: Have they not discovered that they are in a minority in this case? I think the government parties should be a little humiliating to the majority. We have to get such a situation in the hall that the majority and the government parties can also talk well together. But here you run like you're going to sit with a huge majority. It is only a few weeks since the Prime Minister used his most powerful weapon, which has not been used for many years in the Norwegian metropolitan area, and threatened through a budget. Then you make a huge debate of 54 million. kr today, after, and whether or not to be transferable. And it is about the credibility of the Labour Party and other parties in relation to the budgetary rules! The case has been completely taken out of proportion and dimensions. I think the council had a very good post. She said that this is about both formality and politics. That's a good comment. I think her posts were bidden that she was happy for a little more money at this post.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e950	It was tempting to take the floor, and I allow myself to be tempted in this context by listening to such a debate, which has been a long time since we had. Because I now feel that this is actually about political contempt. The committee leader said he was wondering about many things. But what surprises me the most is that he uses his double voice in the committee to push through a proposal here that will go across the rules. My son is active in a football community. One day he found out that he would ignore the off-site rule, but he would still be on the team and play on, for he would so much like to have more goals. It didn't go that long before he was expelled from the team. This is also the case in the policy world – there are certain rules of play, including: in the case of budgetary matters. Here in Stortinget, we have our own allocation rules, so that we have some rules of play to deal with that is the same for everyone. Otherwise it'll be quite random. I am pleased with several student housing – no doubt about it – and was happy to see that the Cooperative Government would grant 26 million. kr in addition to the budget of the Stoltenberg Government. I got quite tired when it was cut out of the opposition parties, which had a majority. But it's really saying that you'd rather have something else instead. Policy is a priority. I'm afraid the political debate is being strengthened by this debate today, because now even more can say that politicians are saying one thing one day, so to find the back way the next to get away. At least I expect parties who have tried out the government offices to show greater courage to break out of the majority of the Progress Party and the SV, who have lived their entire life in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e965	I understand that the Progress Party is satisfied in this matter, because they are in the process of getting support for a principle that they have long claimed. I also understand the need of the majority to try to talk about something other than what the matter is about, and there have been different techniques to achieve it. It's obvious that today's business is taking this matter very seriously, because when they wrote about "Budjettriks" yesterday, they wrote so strongly about it that they used three ts in a row! What can actually be boiled down to are not the facts. Realities would be the same. However, the question is whether the Storting should adhere to the guidelines which the Storting itself drew up six months ago, namely whether a decision should be taken to derogate from Section 4 of the Financial Regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e974	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1201]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e990	The President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into five minutes per group. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e997	After the last case, you will probably be a little in doubt, at least as reasonably new here in the house, in relation to what you are allowed to do. But I just want to say something briefly about the background of the proposal. The Act on Santa Claus, adopted as far back as 1996, is intended to enter into force in the new year. The possibility provided by the law to specify plots beyond the price increase was adopted against the wishes of the Workers' Party. In order to mitigate the adverse effects of the law – and I clarify: in order to mitigate the adverse effects of the law – the Workers' Party supported the alternative proposal in Section 15 of the Landfill Act, where a ceiling of 9 000 kroner per person is set. dekker attached to the land, which was adopted in 2000. Subsidized, we supported this. Let there be no doubt: the Labour Party has always wanted another law. This has been marked in the Storting in recent years, and both the law and the decision of entry into force are thus the result of the majority of the population – consisting of the bourgeois parties – their will. I find it necessary to clarify this, because already in the public debate on this proposal, it has been argued that the government of Stoltenberg is in many ways the government that has driven this proposal. That's not right. And anyway, there's never been any independent argument in terms of combating the tax burden on the even Northman. In Norway there are more than 300,000 parties, of which 40 are. are parties to private housing, 35 pst. in relation to cabins. I want to quote from the Sem statement, where it says: ‘Cooperative governance will strengthen people’s ability to survive on their own income and give them greater freedom of choice. Tax relief is necessary to achieve this. The Co-operation Board will emphasise that the charging policy is also a key element of the distribution policy.’ To put it that way, the Sem Declaration: Fee policy is a central element of the distribution policy. Here we are talking about a fee that affects ordinary people, for a necessary service, namely housing. It is a miserably divisive one, and when the Government announces a policy aimed at reducing poverty and increasing disparities, it should now be possible to support the proposal that has been put forward and provides for a postponement of an unreasonable financial burden for many. Reducing differences in Norway is about something more than increasing social welfare benefits. Structural changes must be made. The law of emptying is, as it sounds today, and as it is supposed to come into force, a step in the wrong direction. The government's expressed willingness to do something about Difference Norway is now being tested, and in this way these statements of the new government are to the extent also a maritime argument for postponing implementation. Policy is to want, and that's to choose, to choose either a set of rules that primarily favors those who own real estate and something from before, or the many who rent the necessary land for their own housing. For some owner-occupiers, in the years ahead, the law can provide a rental increase of 500 kroner to, for example, 18 000 kroner a year. Cabin owners have reported increases from NOK 1500 to over NOK 70 000 per year. years, and housing conditions in Oslo report an increase in rentals that would give each housing unit NOK 2000 to NOK 3000 in increased rent per year. years. This law involves an increase in fees for many of the centuries. The increase may have dramatic consequences for some, and I have to say that I am facing a certain tension about the Progress Party at its election campaign statements about the will to ease the economic pressure on the small man, thus supporting our proposal. The government of Stoltenberg sent in August this year, after consultation, proposals for new rules, which entailed a future ban on party contracts, easier options for redemption and more recent rules on lease regulation. The deadline for consultation is March 2002. The reason for this is that the Workers' Party wants the entire Landfill Institute to be wound up in order to ensure housing security, and only this consultation proposal is a good reason for the Stortingen to adopt a postponement of the implementation of the law. So on the basis of this and the unreasonable results the passed law will be able to give many Santas, we believe the implementation of the law should be postponed. All the time we have a big choice behind us that focused heavily on charges that hit ordinary people, as it was said, and their wallets, it will be completely incomprehensible for us in the Workers' Party that the Government and the Advance Party today will be passive and look at such a massive increase in fees for many Santas. The fact that this one is largely required by private people doesn't change the fact that this is swirling hard. A heads is a heads. The working party has consistently opposed this possibility of charging. The majority who push the law and its entry into force should be able to well await such a massive increase in charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e1022	The Workers' Party has made proposals to postpone the implementation of the Law on Landfills of 20 December 1996. Thus, the law was adopted in 1996 and is now to be implemented, five years after its adoption. Int. O. No 70 for 1999-2000, changes were made to the law, changes to which the Workers' Party subsidiaryly joined, as Mr Storberget pointed out. On 8 June 2002, the Minister of Justice and the Government sanctioned the Act, with effect from 1 January 2002. What the Workers' Party is doing now is re-arrivaling a law that they themselves have sanctioned in the government and that they voted for in the Stortinget last round. It is a bit strange that the government of Stoltenberg did not withdraw the proposal for a change that existed from the previous government. The only change I see may have occurred now, is that the Workers' Party made a poor choice and will try to free some groups through this proposal to postpone implementation. There is a lot to say about the kind of procedure we now have, but predictability is at least not a label that you can use on it and this proposal for a postponement from the Workers' Party. Now it's almost five years since the law was passed. All parties are aware of the content of the law. Postponing implementation will only contribute to the continuation of biases that need to be corrected sooner or later. It is important to bear in mind that the law regulates fastage agreements concluded before 26 May 1983. So this doesn't apply to any more recent agreements. The Storberget also refers to in his post that he has been reported with increases from NOK 1500 to NOK 70000 on cabin properties. Yes, it may be true, but then it's worth noting that the Storting has itself decided that there should be a maximum of NOK 9 000 in rent per person. Objective. That means that the cottage property is then close to eight goals. So there's no small property, and there's probably someone who has reasonable advice in the first place, who has this property. It is also the case that the Law on Landfill is actually an agreement between two parties, and I think it is interesting that the Workers' Party only focuses on the rights of those who attach their land, not on the rights of those who actually make their property available. In its proposal, the Labour Party points out that a new bill on the Law on Santa Claus has been sent to the hearing. It's also a matter of its own. The legislative amendment was sent out in the middle of the election campaign, 29 August, and the starting point for this was not a request from the Stortinget for a new empty party law, no, the hearing is based on – yes, it is directly in the bill – a formulation from the Workers' Party's programme for 2001–2005. And it is interesting that the Workers' Party used the government apparatus to promote legislative proposals that were not supported at all by the Storting, only in the Workers' Party's own party program. Of course, this is allowed, but this is not referred to in the proposal from Storberget, which is now under consideration. This is a purely labour party proposal that was promoted in the election campaign. The law to be implemented thus applies to the fastening agreement concluded before 26 May 1983. I would recommend the Right-wing Group to vote against the Labour Party's proposal, as this is to be seen as a mere rematch on a law approved by Minister of Justice Hanne Harlem and the Government on 8 June 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e1039	I will not extend this debate much, just refer to the reasons given in Document No. 8:31, and the post that was kept by the Workers' Party, and say that SV joins and will vote in favour of the proposal as presented. We're not taking a position on the details that are now here. A lot of that we're supporting. Other parts of what such a postponement will mean, we have to come back to when we see the outcome of the hearing that is now going on, but we can't see that there's any very good reason not to support a proposal that goes into reality in the effect of a law, just because there's one party that has stood for this view. I want us to be able to look at all the proposals that come to the Storting, regardless of which parties it is that promote them, that we should look at the substance and see if we are able to support it. And I think it's an attitude that should be implemented for everyone. I think it's too easy to say that this is a proposal that a government or a party has promoted, and that's why we choose to ignore it. We have to go into the realities that the proposal outlines. And here there are many appeals against the law as it is designed now, and there are good reasons to await the hearing and the results of it, before possibly implementing the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e1048	When I was sitting here under the previous case, waiting for this to come up, representatives of the majority parties said that they didn't think it was premature for those who were in the minority to accept exactly that, that they were in the minority, and bowed down to the majority. Yes, the Labour Party even indignantly stated that it was a very small parliamentary way of dealing with it. Nor do I understand why the Labour Party in the matter we are dealing with cannot bow to the majority, who have taken a decision, only in 1996, and then later when we made changes. It is a rematch that lies in this document, and the Christian People's Party is going to vote against it. The Christian People's Party is trying both to understand and to do justice to parties as well as to entrapment. The reasons for the document are as follows: «The price increase that could now be expected from the turn of the year on the basis of the amendment of the law will significantly increase the fastening charge for many owners of dwellings and cabins.» That is precisely the intention! That's what's at the heart of the matter. That's why you've made changes to the law. But because a decision was first taken that could have far too many consequences, changes and thanks have been made. I also thought that this matter was really clear, as Councillor Harlem contacted the undersigned to secure the support of the Christian People's Party to implement this law from 1 July of the current year. It took some time to prepare the regulations, but otherwise everything was clear. That is why I think the representative of Greece has just pointed out an important point in his statement. However, it is necessary for the Council of State to take some elements into account. I do not expect the Council of State to be able to answer this directly in this Chamber, but it may be promoted as a written question to the Council of State on a later occasion. There are some things going on around the festival institute that are unclear and where confusion is created, for example. in relation to the rules governing the right of the attachment to redeem the land after 30 years. Is it for the first time fixed by the contracting party that the land can be redeemed after 30 years, or is the starting date renewed for each new person taking over that fixed? For my part, I'm not in doubt, but I'd like to let the council take it with me. It is also necessary and important to take into account whether the landowner has made the necessary basic investments, for example, in determining the origin of the land in the various areas. to the infrastructure, or whether it is the landowners who have jointly managed it. And what should be the starting point for assessing what is the real market price? Who will be left with the funds that are invested? Because there are some ambiguities attached to this law, we have said that it should be evaluated after two years. Then, in my understanding, it is not so terribly difficult to remain calm in these two years when we have now taken a decision and this decision is to be implemented. It's also important that we don't have a price code that beats up the purpose of the adopted Santa Claus Act. It is correct, as the Workers' Party writes in its explanatory statement, that this will lead to an increase in the attachment fee for many housing and cabin owners. This should be so, for justice must be done, both in relation to parties and in relation to awnings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e1070	The matter is now widely discussed, and most views have well emerged. At the same time, we have received a main challenge from the Workers' Party, and of course we shall answer it. It fascinates me a little when, in my opinion, the Workers' Party has the graces of fear to say that they are concerned with the level of fees here in the country. If it's a party that's been very capable of charging the Norwegian people, it's certainly the Workers' Party. But it is also quite timely that the representative of the Workers' Party indicates that the Advance Party is a party committed to reducing the fees. Of course, he is quite right about that, but the credibility of the representative's own part is not a believer, at my discretion. As far as the Progress Party is concerned, this is a balance between two aspects. It's the landowner's and it's the party's ratio. It's done through a rental relationship. It is clear that there is no charge here. It's simply a matter of paying for renting an area. That's what's the lead in this case. What the Labour Party does by resubmitting proposals is not to accept the majority in this Chamber, who have given a mandate and said that we will have put this into practice. It's been going on for five years. It's time to get this started. I don't have the big concerns either, because if it turns out that there are significant distortions that have to be addressed, it's in the cards that it's going to be an evaluation after two years. If it shows that there are special issues that you would not have had when you promoted the law, with the regulations you have, the Stortinget will review them. That's the way it is, and that's the way it has to be, because even for the Big One's sake, it's automatically because everything that happens here is necessarily just as sensible. But then you have to have regulations that make it possible to take things up, look at things in a new light of time and maybe make changes. That's how you develop society. Then Stortinget is a tool to contribute to these pieces. Finally, I would recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote against the proposal tabled by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e1086	The central party believes it is important that the law preserves both parties, both parties and parties. The working party and SV are one-sided on the part of the party in this case, while it must be permissible to say that the Right Party and the Advance Party have traditionally done the same. I believe that the settlement that was made balances well and takes care of both parties. There is an upper limit per. housing covers and restrictions are in place on how much the price of the fastening contract is to be adjusted. There is also a majority in this room for evaluation after the law has been in place for two years. Of course, I do not ignore the fact that there may be some unfortunate results for some parties. I believe that the centre party in its comments on the previous treatment took into account and put in as a premise, when we in the setting at that time showed that there was a need to care for both parties, and that for home parties in particular, there must also be social considerations on the basis. This should also be done in the future and should be taken into account in particular in the evaluation. If it shows that there are unfortunate consequences for some, because it will be some – that is a tenancy we are talking about here – then one must also seek to care for those who are most badly affected by specific schemes, and not create a law in general. Finally, I would just like to add a few comments to the role of the state. The state is one of the most significant property owners in the country. Looking at both the Labour Party and the rest of this hall, I think it's particularly important that the state on its property takes a line where you're not going to be price-driven, but on the contrary, aim to keep a price level that can also provide precedent for other parties. It concerns both the Information Society's fund and the State's forests. On this basis, I would recommend that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats vote against the motion by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e1095	I am not going to go deep into the facts of the matter at this point. They have been illuminated a number of times before. I'm just going to show that it was the government of Stoltenberg as at kgl. Res. On 8 June 2001, the Landfill Act of 1996 provided for its entry into force on 1 January 2002. This happened after Stortinget had assessed and changed the regulation of the fastening charge in the summer of 2000. Let it also be permitted to say that the representative of the wholesaler Dørum was also familiar with the consultation process that took place last summer in connection with this matter. In the case of another matter that has been raised, the Stortinget decided on 13 June 2000 that the Government would evaluate the rules on fastening fees after the law had been in force for two years, and submit the assessment to the Stortinget as its own case. I would also point out that the Labour Party voted against this. These are the facts that lie in the matter. In addition, the government of Stoltenberg itself chose to issue consultation proposals on changes to the Law on Landfills on 29 August 2001. At the same time, it was stated that the law would enter into force on 1 January 2002. I mention this because a decision in accordance with the proposal in Document No. 8:31 would bring with it a noticeable practical turbulence. In a number of cases where fixing charges can be regulated in 2002, we have to assume that the fasteners have now sent out a message to the parties about what the new fee will be. I would like to point out, in general, that an enforcement decision may be amended immediately prior to the entry into force of a law and would not require the Stortinget to take decisions in accordance with Document No. The 8th proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e1107	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e1110	I think there's reason to remind you that as far as the historical process in this case is concerned, it is such that the Right Party and the Advance Party would actually be worse than the wording of the law today. My reference to what is stated in the Sem Declaration in relation to the fact that the Co-operation Government will emphasise that the charging policy is also a central element of the distribution policy, I think the citizens in this Chamber could make a good comment. Because it is actually a new element in the political situation – in addition to having a new size, which should also be able to take a decision on this with great justification. In fact, on this occasion, Stortinget has an opportunity to take the Sem Declaration seriously, to make the charging policy so clear as part of the distribution policy after a harvest where we have seen that the distribution policy has been raised as the most important tab of most parties. Then it's not about, as the representative Ellingen points out, my credibility in relation to fees, because I'm actually in favour of this fee being kept at a low level, but it's actually about the credibility of the Progress Party in relation to the fees for the little man. That is what we need to answer in this debate – what is the reason why we really want to contribute to such a massive increase in fees. Here one would like to point to entry into force decisions and sanctions from previous governments and the government of Stoltenberg, but there has never been any argument from the right to reduce Norwegian taxes. That the government of Stoltenberg has sanctioned some kind of policy that would contribute to charging, or fees for that matter, has never been an independent argument. I must remind you that it is not criminal that the government of Stoltenberg is promoting proposals for changes to the law on Santa Claus as a background in its own party programme. After all, it is the prerogative of the government to have the opportunity to make proposals – the representative of Greece almost tried to present it as something suspicious that it came in the election campaign, but it is actually just something programmed. The Labour Party has meant it every year, and it should not be a surprise that that proposal came along. I would remind you that when this proposal is now on the table, the Stortinget actually has an opportunity to act as a kind of dynamic player in politics, and just taking into account the choice of introducing charging policy into a policy framework for distribution. It has also been seen that the law gives unfortunate results, which it is now time to take account of, and then you actually have an opportunity to turn around in these days, during this treatment. That's what I think the bulk of the population should grab.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e1117	I record on the same line with the previous speaker that the representative Marthinsen is indignant that the Labour Party is taking a fight against a gambling plural, and that the representative of Helleland is busy that the Government is making a bill in line with the Workers' Party's program. It is every political party's right and duty to work for its political affairs, especially matters in which one is very overly perplexed that it is necessary to make changes in relation to what is now on the table. There is no doubt that the adopted Santa Claus Festival to come into force has many weaknesses. We get a lot of feedback that this seems untimely to the party. Many parties have entered into these agreements under completely different arrangements. They've put a lot of work on the site, and they've created a huge increase in value on the site. Then, all of a sudden, the increase in value that they themselves have worked on is to turn off so that they get far higher rates of rent – or attachment – than they've had in the past. And the other thing that's unparalleled is that even if you add the upper bound that's now done, you add $9,000 per. the lessor can increase rent on a one-sided basis. This will lead to a lot of people getting into trouble, for example. low-income pensioners who have in a way based their building costs on entirely different assumptions. I want to say it so strongly that this celebration is in one way the last survival of a class division in this society that we should come to life. In principle, I believe that the whole arrangement should be terminated. In any case, one should now ensure that one receives a regulation that is not unilaterally in favour of the lessor, but is also reasonable and fair for the person who has a party agreement and is forced to rent this land. That's why I actually thought that everyone should be aware that we had left the new bill that was out on the phone, getting a chance, so that one had recorded the recordings that have come and charted the consequences of what is now happening, before one set of works a new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e1126	The representative Rudihagen says that I am ‘indignant’ about the Workers' Party taking a rematch. No, far from it. I was just saying that I thought it was strange that the Workers' Party did not follow the same principle at 15 minutes' intervals – from the previous case to this – namely, that a majority decision should be taken. You would do that in the previous case, and you won't do that in this case. So the representative says Storberget that this is part of the Sem declaration on charging policy. But this is about the payment for the loan of property. That's what this is about. This is not such a charge that goes into the treasury – but it is about that I, with my property, have rented that property for a landowner, and maybe I will also buy it on a later occasion. And then it's about an agreement that's been concluded between us. The agreements are described in the party contract. We say something about the fact that so much has happened in the development of society, that appreciations have largely benefited the landowner, not least when he sells his properties – the house or cabin that is located in exactly that place – while the landowner gets his 200 kroner or 1500 kroner a year in a party fee, and in that way he is the one who makes sure that whoever built the cabin for a cheap money at an early stage earns huge sums on it at the given time he sells it. It is important, I think, that you can see both sides in this matter. That's what we in the Christian People's Party did when we turned around – we realized what was the result of the decision we were making at the first time. It's an honest thing to see that things don't get the way you thought they were going to be. I also think that the Labour Party could be involved in this context and see the matter from both sides. If what is now included in this proposal from, among other things, The Great Mountain, was important to the Workers' Party, why in all the world did not the Stoltenberg government choose to postpone implementation? Wasn't it so important then? Has it now become important, after they have come into opposition? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e1141	There are again known and dear tones, and attacks on the Progress Party in charging policy. As I said, the one who is going to attack us is going to have a great deal of political credibility in this way, because I don't think there are so many who can compete with us in terms of the level of charges. But where the representative of Storberget is wrong about this, this is not a fee, as others have also been involved, it is a matter of paying rent for an area. Then the interests of both parties – the lessor and the lessor should be taken into account. And then it can't be that one is going to subsidize the other, so you get to create a system that is as fair as possible. When the representative of Storberget refers to the Progress Party and this with fees increases, he should be more concerned about other things, such as: the document fee. Then he could take a roof there, so people might be able to afford to pay their party fee. The same is true of fuel taxes and car taxes, which affect people the most – opportunities the representative Storberget has a lot, it's just to take the roof and support and reduce the fees. He will receive that support from the Advance Party. I can't stop commenting on the representative Rudihagen's distinguished recording at the end of his post, where he showed concern for the pensioners. Yes, you would believe that – from the Workers' Party! Who is behind today's coordination, which affects pensioners to a large extent? Let the Workers' Party take up the glove from here and do something about it, and they're going to get our backs. And then maybe the pensioners get better terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e1152	I would like to remind you that the Santa Claus ceremony as the Workers' Party wants it, is the last reminiscence of the Workers' Party's houseowners' regulations that we had to deal with until the Willoch government in its time had abolished the worst. Of course, this has nothing to do with charging policy in the sense that has been pointed out by several speakers. There is a way to regulate an agreement between independent parties – a landowner and one who wants to build a house or a cabin. In its time, it may have been a very good deal for both parties. The owner of the land has secured current income, and the owner of the house or cabin has released the part of the equity that is required to acquire the land. That then goes 15–20–30 years, where the loans on the house or cabin have been paid off, and so one of two interests believes that all appreciation should belong to him or her, is therefore not a principle of ownership, but typical of the Workers' Party's position on land ownership. When Rudihagen is in principle opposed to Santa Claus, it is a point of view that can be well discussed and respected. But it simply means that a good that it is possible to get hold of or acquire through a Santa Claus doesn't necessarily happen if it's about buying. If you don't want to expropriate, the landowner will have the right to say that if I can't get a long-term income base for my property, I'll simply leave it to sell. It could hardly benefit any of the parties. So I want to say that this law represents one of the few fundamental debates that are in Stortinget. The representative Anders C. Shaastad said when the debate was up for the first time that there was an old dimension between a traditional socialist and a bourgeois attitude to property rights. It doesn't happen that you can use ownership in cases where it fits into your own frame, and so don't take it with you in cases where it doesn't fit. In addition, we have said that we will come back to this matter after two years. In the meantime, I think we finally – and it's certainly not too early – have got an arrangement with regard to Santa Claus, which allows both landowners and parties to live well with the regulations that we have now made in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e1163	Several have not asked for the floor on the supplementary agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e1175	We can then go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e1196	During the debate, Mr Alvheim put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The ongoing operating deficit in public hospitals in 2001 which can be documented is due to increased patient treatment in 2001 to be fully covered by the State.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e1920	During the debate, Mr Molvik has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for an explanation of the reasons for the large decrease in the number of beneficiaries of transitional aid from 2000 to 2001 and to provide it to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e2754	The vote will take place on the proposal by Harald T. Nesvik, representative of the People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 11 December 2001: ‘The government asks the Government to develop new guidelines for the reduction of pension benefits for long-term residents of municipal or county institutions that treat users in such institutions as equals.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e2772	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget, meeting on 11 December 2001: ‘The Government is asking the Government to assess the basic amount of social security and the most common supplements with a view to reducing the need for supplementary social assistance for social security beneficiaries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e2790	The vote will take place on the proposal by Harald T. Nesvik, representing the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, submitted by the meeting of 11 December 2001: ‘The Government asks that the reduction in the pension of long-term residents of municipal or county institutions should not take place until after one year’s stay and that the amount of the allowance should be at least 12000.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e2808	The vote will take place on the proposal by Harald T. Nesvik, representing the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, submitted by the meeting of 11 December 2001: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Grand Duchy on changes in the law on social security which give pensioners the right to their full and legal pension at the age of 67, without delimitation for any other income.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e2826	During the debate Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2001 State budget makes the following changes: Cape Town PostDestination:Croner571Room access to municipalities [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3572):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e2910	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Søren Fredrik Voie on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party, Left and the representative Jan Simonsen proposals No. 2-4, from Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advance Party First of all, we are voting on the proposals of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Chap.Post Purpose:Croner282Private higher education70Additional, increased by 53 182 000 from NOK 395 794 000 to NOK 448 976 000 2410 State loan fund for education71Other scholarships, the estimate, can be transferred, increased by 94 000 000 from NOK 809 000 to NOK 903000000’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Appropriations carried over from cover to cover. 240 item 70 Private schools, etc., are made transferable.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘Appropriations carried over from cover to cover. 253 to be transmitted.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e3008	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from Right, Christian People's Party, Left, and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.Post Purpose:Croner281Universities and higher education co-expenditure76Subsidies to the North Tuna may be transferred, reduced by 13 000 000 from NOK 32 652 000 to NOK 19 652 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e4631	Here, the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left want to vote against the coup. 270, heading 75.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e4648	It shall then be put to the vote on the matter on the supplementary agenda, No. Thirty-three.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e4656	There is a vote on the proposal of the Workers' Party in Document No. 8:31 for 2001-2002. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to postpone the implementation of the law on land fasts on 20 December 1996 pending an assessment of the proposals for changes to the land fasteners which have been sent to the hearing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e4671	We are now going back to agenda No. Thirty-two.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-18.ana.ud2260e4682	There is no record.
