ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e75	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e80	I'd like to suggest Kjell Engretsen and Aud Blattmann.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e85	Kjell Engebretsen and Aud Blattmann are proposed as presidents of the current week’s meetings. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen and Aud Blattmann are unanimously elected as chairmen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e93	The representative Hans J. Røsjorde will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e96	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of myself, the representative Per Ove Width and the representative Per Sandberg, to set up a fund for the preservation of attachments and other military-historical buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e101	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and complete voting after that date. 1-8 has been dealt with, and immediately after that take case no. 10, Unit, up to treatment. No objections have been raised to this proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will propose that the Storting meeting be interrupted after the No. 1-8 and 10 have been completed, and a new meeting is scheduled at 1:00 p.m. 19.30 for the examination of case No. 9th@item: inlistbox No objections have been raised – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e115	I'm glad I've been given the opportunity to give this statement about jealousy. I have chosen to keep an open line in this matter, and have actively communicated with the consumers, the different industries and in the media to allow the general public to take part in the issues I am about to address. A statement to Stortinget gives me an opportunity for a broad review of the matter. The government's starting point for dealing with this matter is that all food, including beef, traded in Norway, should be safe. And not only that, the food should be felt safe. In this context, the aim is to avoid cow disease, or BSE, and thus the new variant of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in Norway. The measures we are taking must take into account the international commitments we have undertaken. However, these should not prejudge the health of people and animals. International trade in animals and food shall be safe for people and safe for animals. Since BSE is such a special disease, I think it might be useful that I take some time to characterize it. BSE is a feed-borne disease caused by so-called prions or pathogens. The prions are transferred mainly via feed containing meat bones meal derived from BSE infected animal material. As far as one knows today, the living animal does not represent any risk of infection to animals or humans, unlike what is the case with many other animal diseases. The same applies to breeding products such as semen and embryos, which also do not transmit BSE. On the other hand, the cow can transfer BSE to the calf before it is born. Based on these characteristics it can be established that BSE is not a contagious disease in the normal sense. Young animals are most susceptible to the disease. The shortest known incubation time, i.e. The time from the animal getting infected until it shows symptoms, as you know, is 20 months. The disease is most frequently observed in animals between four and six years of age, and is most often seen as persistent nervous symptoms with tremors and unstunished times. The BSE infectious agent is exceptionally resistant to heat. Meat meal is heated to 133 o C for 40 minutes or 136 o C for 20 minutes under high pressure. This will greatly reduce the content of BSE infectious agents. However, it cannot be guaranteed that all the contaminants are inactivated even by such heat treatment. BSE has also been shown to be transmissible to humans in the form of the so-called new variant of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Professionals believe that this disease can be transmitted when certain products from BSE-sick animals are eaten. Pure meat is considered to be the safest parts of the animal for the presence of the infectious agent and BSE infection has never been detected in meat. Based on background, the EU Scientific Committee has categorised potential infection in different organs or parts of BSE infected animals as follows: Category 1: high content of infectious agent, e.g. brain, eyes, spinal cord and central nerves Category 2: means the content of the infectious agent, e.g. gut and spleen Category 3: low levels of infectious agents, e.g. liver and bone marrow Category 4: infectious agent not detected, e.g. muscle, milk, blood, skin and faeces The so-called special risk material, often called daily SAM, is made up of brain, eyes, spinal cord, intestines and tonsils in animals over 12 months of age. Research in the last fifteen years has provided a lot of knowledge about BSE. This, plus all practical experience, makes me believe that it is possible to put in good and accurate measures. The perceptions of the disease and the transmission of BSE to humans and animals are largely consistent in the scientific environments in Norway and the EU. In my assessments, I have depended to a great extent on the professional advice I have received from these environments, primarily represented by the Veterinary Institute in Norway and the Scientific Steering Group in the European Union. The development of BSE in Europe has triggered the need to take many and rapid decisions both in the EU and in Norway, more of which are of major importance for consumers and businesses. I'm going to go through the most important challenges we've faced, especially in the last six months. First of all, a few words about the situation in this country with regard to BSE: Last July, the EU Scientific Steering Group presented a report that placed Norway in the best class of 25 countries in the world that was assessed in terms of the likelihood of finding BSE infection in the animal population. No other country in Europe has been given this good status, although some other countries have not yet been diagnosed with BSE. Outside Europe, Argentina, Paraguay, Chile, Uruguay, Australia and New Zealand have achieved the same status as Norway. The favourable situation in Norway is due to several factors, including: restricted imports of live animals, strict import controls on live animals and meat-and-bone meal and strict requirements as regards heat treatment and restrictions on the use of meat-and-bone meal. In the case of feed, we introduced a ban on the use of meat-and-bone meal for ruminants as early as 1990. Since we were able to assess our BSE status in July 2000, we have further increased the level of safety. We have put in place a stricter regime than before for the production, placing on the market and use of feed. In particular, it is important to prohibit the importation, placing on the market and use of meat-and-bone meal for all farmed animals. In addition, slaughter methods removing specific risk material, SRM, have been introduced for human consumption. This material is now removed from the carcases and destroyed. From January this year we have extended the BSE monitoring and control programme so that we can form an even better picture of the situation. This programme includes testing slaughtered imported animals, progeny of imported animals, all animals with symptoms where BSE cannot be excluded and compulsory testing of all emergency slaughter and self-dead bovine animals. A control programme to this extent would involve testing about 9000 animals per. years. In other words, we have put in place comprehensive measures to preserve the health status of Norwegian cattle. When new knowledge so warrants, we will consider introducing further measures. Based on what we know today, I believe it is appropriate to say that Norwegian meat is safe. However, I would like to stress that no one can guarantee that we are free from BSE. The extensive studies undertaken may show that we are also finding BSE cattle in Norway. I remember many people who previously thought that we didn't have scrapie in this country. So a few words about the import procedures for live bovine animals and the security measures taken. The recent focus on the need for an import ban may give some impression that imports of bovine animals take place without special conditions. This is far from right. The animal must have been subject to health inspection by the official veterinarian at the place of dispatch. Furthermore, strict requirements are set for the herd from which the animal comes must have been free of the most serious transmissible diseases at a time before the consignment takes place and health certificates must be issued stating that it does not have clinical signs of disease. The official veterinarian at the place of dispatch shall report to the district veterinarian here in the country when the animal is dispatched. The consignee shall further report from no later than 24 hours before the animal arrives in Norway. On arrival in Norway, the animal shall be examined. Among other things, samples are taken for several diseases, the animal is placed in isolation and labelled separately as import animals in the form of a red mark in the ear. Information on the animal is then entered in the Norwegian bovine individual database, which allows for an overview of the animal during any movement out of the flock. The owner of the animal is obliged to notify the supervisory authorities when an imported animal is dispatched for slaughter. When the animal comes to the slaughterhouse, samples are taken for testing for BSE. At the same time, specific risk material, SRM, is removed and destroyed. Pending the response to the BSE test, the animal is detained. If the sample turns out to be positive, the whole animal will be destroyed. There has been a demand that, in addition to the measures already in place, I should have imposed import bans on live bovine animals from EU countries in addition to the United Kingdom and Portugal, where there is already a ban. It is a fact that any movement of biological material presents a risk of infection. The question here is to what extent an import ban, in addition to all other measures taken, would significantly reduce the risk of Norwegian consumers being exposed to BSE infection and thus develop the new variant of Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease. I have not found any basis for this to have such a risk-mitigation effect, either in the assessments provided by the Veterinary Institute, Folkehelsa or by the EU Scientific Committee. However, like all trade unions, I have recommended the industries to import semen and embryos when it is desirable to renew the breeding material in Norway. Several teams have shown that the Animal Health Authority has recommended a ban on imports. For me, it has been important that the Animal Health Authority in a letter to me dated 18 January has stated, among other things. the following: ‘An animal originating from a country with a higher risk of cullitis than Norway hardly represents any strain on the feed and food chain after current knowledge.’ And on the other hand, ‘It is our opinion that the specific checks carried out on imported animals at the time of slaughter result in meat from these animals having the same quality as meat from Norwegian animals in the case of cullitis.’ However, when they recommend an import ban, I understand that the Animal Health Authority can reach this conclusion when the case is seen in isolation. But in a broader context, with the reason I have explained earlier, I have nevertheless come to the conclusion that this will not be right. Several have claimed that testing is not a safe method of detecting BSE. To that I would say the following: Testing of bovine animals for slaughter is one instrument of many measures to reduce the risk of transmission of infection to consumers. The test is not so sensitive as to detect the minimal presence of BSE infection in the tested animal. The test is able to detect three to six months of BSE infection before the animal begins to show signs of BSE. During this period, the incidence of contaminants in the brain has begun to rise, but the amount will be significantly lower than it will when the signs of disease begin to appear. The test material is taken from the brain, where the concentration of infectious agents in the animal is greatest. It is therefore such that slaughter from animals that a few months later would have developed BSE could pass the test without being detected. In this context, it is important to remember that SRM is discarded from all cattle. If, contrary to the assumption in parts of the slaughter approved for food, minimal residues of the contaminant were to be present in all infections, a certain quantity of the contaminant is required for the disease to occur. Therefore, on the basis of a technical assessment, it is concluded that although certain animals during the incubation period may pass the test without being detected, the meat from these slaughters is nevertheless safe for consumers. Similarly, the test can give a positive response to something that is not BSE, also called false positive responses. This is something which occurs in all such test methods to a greater or lesser extent and to which the laboratories and authorities have to deal. If we get a positive rapid test in Norway, this will be re-established on the same day to rule out laboratory errors if possible. If both rapid tests are positive, this will be considered as justified suspicion and new, more accurate and time-consuming tests will be carried out to confirm or disclaim the suspicion. In such cases, the veterinary institute will be in close contact with the EU reference laboratory in the United Kingdom. I have mentioned that all imported animals and progeny are tested during slaughter. This is the result of risk assessments and the measure compensates for these animals coming from countries where BSE occurs. During this test, we have a kind of knowledge of the imported animals we don't have about Norwegian slaughter animals, which are currently not tested in the same way. In this context, and with all the other measures I have mentioned, I have therefore drawn the conclusion that there is a basis for saying that meat coming from imported animals that has been tested free of BSE is safe. I would like to stress that the measures I have described are taken on the basis of what we know today. new knowledge, change of disease status, pathways, detection of serious failures of the control procedures, etc. can cause my current position to have to be adjusted. One of the issues assessed, including in the EU, is whether it would be right to start testing all animals at the age of 24 instead of when they are 30 months old, as they are now. In any case, we propose to start testing all slaughter animals over 30 months with effect from 1 July of this year. Another issue that is topical is the Commission’s decision to ban meat on bones or meat on the spinal column. The EU Scientific Steering Committee has recommended this as measures in those countries that do not have the same good status as Norway. On 7 February, the majority of the Standing Veterinary Committee in the EU was appointed to remove the entire spine of bovine animals over 12 months of age from all Member States. In other words, the sale of T-bench will be prohibited. Alternatively, other comprehensive measures may be implemented. The EU Commission allowed Sweden, Finland, Austria, the United Kingdom and Portugal to continue to market T-benchmarks provided that these countries test all animals over 30 months of age as of 1 April this year. In this respect, I have asked the Veterinary Institute to assess the risk-mitigation impact of this measure in Norway. The Minister for Health has also asked Folkehelsa to make this assessment. If these institutions come to the same conclusion as the European Scientific Committee, I will address the matter with the European Commission with a view to reaching a solution where we do not test all animals over 30 months before 1 July this year. So we're not removing the spine or testing all the animals between 1 April and 1 July. The Veterinary Institute has informed me that there is currently a major research work in England to clarify whether BSE infection is present in the sheep population. In this case, a key question is whether sheep are infected by the fact that they have received meat bones that have contained BSE infection from infected bovine animals. If BSE infection is detected in sheep, a number of new problems arise in terms of incidence and spread of infection. The Veterinary Institute follows closely the development of knowledge in this field, and I would like to ask the Institute and the Animal Health Authority to come back with a report detailing this issue and, where appropriate, its consequences. With regard to international matters and the obligations we have assumed in this context, I would first of all like to refer to the comments I have already made on this issue, including: in my reply of 7 February this year to Mr Odd Roger Enoksen's written question No. 205 of 1 February of this year. An import ban is initially a recognised instrument in international trade, including in the EU and between EU countries. Not only is it allowed, but in some cases we have an international obligation to introduce such measures, if others may be harmed by their failure to do so. I have already used the security clause 11 times where I believe we have had a professional basis for this. However, such an instrument is considered to be the strongest instrument in international trade. Both the EEA Agreement and the SPS Agreement generally assume that if they have the same or equivalent effect, they shall use the instruments which minimise trade damage. So it's not just the EEA Agreement that says something about how to deal with these kinds of issues. An additional assessment that I have highlighted is that it is important that we appear internationally with credibility and consistency in what we do. International trade is very important for Norway, and, as has been said many times before, Norway is a large net exporter of food. We cannot allow ourselves to experiment with or balance on the edge of our credibility. We have experienced trade restrictions, for example. in the case of salmon disease the ILA. In 1993, France, Spain and Italy introduced a national ban on the importation of Norwegian salmon due to ILA, and this ban also applied to human food. After considerable efforts by Norwegian researchers and authorities, countries were convinced that the measures taken by Norway were sufficient to ensure fish health in the EU. This shows how arbitrary such decisions may be if one does not have the power to adhere to recognised rules of the game. I therefore believe that adding up to a line that can be provocative, either in relation to the EU or to the WTO, will not lead to anything good unless there is a safe professional basis. It is often pointed out that several EU countries have imposed import bans on other EU countries, so why should we not be able to do the same? As I said, I would have done this if it was not possible to achieve satisfactory security in another way. With regard to the unilateral measures taken by some countries against BSE, it seems that many in this country have taken the view that this has been recognised or accepted by the EU and the European Commission. This is not the case. The EU Scientific Committee generally concluded in December that the actions undertaken by some EU Member States could not be defended on the basis of scientific grounds. The Commission, for its part, has strongly criticised this type of action and has recommended that members remove the bans. Most of the bans have now also been lifted. The parties to the agricultural settlement have held exceptional negotiations on economic instruments for the 2000-2001 period, related to the prohibition of meat meal in feed. I have to say that I am very pleased that on 2 February we reached an agreement with the Norwegian Farmers' Association and the Norwegian Confederation on the economic and other measures. The government will present these to the Storting in its own proposition in the near future. The parties have used estimates from the Norwegian Institute for Agricultural Economic Research and a cost increase of 100 million. kr for the current contract period. The costs shall be borne by the assumption that the target prices for pigs, eggs and poultry meat are increased by 42 million. kr. Furthermore, under the existing agricultural agreement 43 million will be redispatched. kr for increased animal supplements. The industry covers 15 million. kr as a proportion. The second major cost element, the expanded testing process, together with the implementation of other control and infrastructure measures, has an increased allocation need over the government budget, except for the agreement of approx. Thirty-three million. 2001 kr. For the second half of 2001, a test programme for all bovine animals over 30 months of age is envisaged. This will require an additional 35 million. kr in addition to the 33 mills already mentioned. DKK for 2001. The parties to the agricultural settlement will come back to this and to the overall cost impact of the BSE measures during the ordinary agricultural negotiations in spring. The Parties agree that the agricultural budget heading should specify the costs through a separate investigation. So some closing comments. I'm fully aware that there are complicated questions we're facing. Both professional development, consumer responses and legislation are changing very rapidly. We cannot rule out the possibility of changing the measures we have put in place up to now, and the ban on imports could be such a measure. We all have to be prepared not to allow ourselves to be given the prestige of our positions at all times. The dynamics of this case complex are great, and no one can predict for sure about the future. It will therefore be an important point to hold a balanced debate based on the knowledge available at all times. Overreactions both rhetorical and practical could create unnecessary consumer fears. The most important thing now, at my discretion, is to allow consumers to engage in an open dialogue on any matter that might interest them. It is the task of the authorities to ensure that all food is safe. And the industry has to make sure it is. I have listened all the time to consumers and taken the industries on board, and I have practised full transparency about the knowledge that has been available in this field. The policy of full transparency and consultation I want to continue. This includes, inter alia: I intend to go out with all the test results showing a legitimate suspicion that we have received a BSE case, even if there is no final confirmation. I think we have confirmed that this strategy has been and is correct. An image of this is that the consumption of beef is actually increasing here in the country, as opposed to what one can observe in most other countries in Europe. I also believe that cooperation between the authorities, business operators, business organisations and other relevant organisations has contributed to our good BSE status. This cooperation I want to continue in the time to come. Finally, I would like to assure both the Stortinget and the Norwegian consumer that the Government will continue to focus consumers and people’s attention on the measures being assessed. I will then pay particular attention to the openness and honesty of the knowledge available to me, and the balances that I make during the March. So it's better to venture that not everyone finds this equally convenient.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e238	The President proposes that the Minister of Agriculture's statement be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e254	There are many thousands of children growing up in poverty in Norway, and we have known that for a long time. There has been a broad political consensus that poverty among children is a shame to a rich country, and then it is at least as great a shame that the political majority in the government has not been able to do anything about it. There's been enough talk about the poor -- now it's high time we started doing something about it. We have to go from talking to practice. In fact, there are no limits to how both the Government and the political majority are able to move around in changing policies if ‘dreamed’ by strong groups is large enough. You can mention the fuel tax and the economic cost, and it is hardly the most serious, heartbreaking and unacceptable attacks on propriety and well-being in our time. Nevertheless, it seems to be more political explosives in petrol than in poor children. Why is it that children can go too lye and cold water without it being on top of the government's agenda? It is the distribution policy that shows the human vision of a society. For every day that the Church's Bymission and the Salvation Army are growing, there is a burning criticism of society and of government policies. It is fully possible to do something about this quickly if we want, because there is no need for money, and there are some simple grips that will help exactly those we want to help. It's about emergency aid, so they can't wait for more plans and more hit-and-run messages. SV will challenge five concrete actions that would be of great help: 1st@item: inlistbox Stop counting child benefits, cash benefits and lump-sum benefits in the calculation of social assistance.2. Introduce mandatory minimum rates of social assistance and allow the country to pay the additional costs.3. Introduce maximum prices for school leisure arrangements and kindergartens.4. Increase child welfare for the third and fourth children.5. Remove all the props in school. I'm going to come back to these points and go through all of them, but first I have to say a little bit about the reality these kids are living in. I think the biggest challenge we have is to speak the truth about poverty and to have a capacity to describe and understand the world from the standpoint of the poor in a society of prosperity and materialism. Poverty in Norway is in some cases about not having money for food or to fire in the cold, but it is primarily about missing the usual people. Living with bad advice excludes people from life as full members of society. How does this child hit? Researcher Karin Gustavsen Tvetene has interviewed children in poor families and given them a voice in a main sociology task. They describe a reality with exclusion from social gatherings and from friends, with shame, naval contempt, social retreat, discouragement and lies to cover up shame. Children are not isolated because they want to, but because it costs money to participate. They don't make friends either when they can't attend where everyone else is, because no one wants to be with a poor girl, as a girl said. After all, there are no leisure activities that are free of charge anymore. Today there are entrance fees in all environments, and the wallet must include wherever one goes. We've created a society where it actually costs money to play with other children, and it has great consequences for young people growing up in low-income families. In Norway, almost all the other kingdoms are, and then it becomes extremely exclusive for those who do not have the money to participate. Then there's been a discussion about how long a family should be poor for this to be considered a problem. Some have mentioned, for example: 10 years. That's the whole childhood, that's it. One can imagine what it's like if one is e.g. starting school and not being able to participate in any leisure activities, not being able to join the school leisure scheme, a lack of much of what the others have, and one has not even heard of the new cool computer game. How long should one have it this way before one is outside and has lost the appetite and courage? Families with children who are poor are largely dependent on social assistance, either as a whole income or as a supplementary income. Child welfare, maternity benefit and cash support are open to all. But with such poor advice that you need social assistance, such benefits can be deducted from social assistance, so that in practice you cannot keep one penny. In principle, there is no difference between these benefits. They are given under all general conditions to all who meet the criteria. The paradox is that cash support is the only one that has been a political agreement to stay out of it, and that is the only one that can be found for good arguments to shorten, cf. that children need the social community that is in kindergartens when, for economic reasons, they may be excluded from other social relationships. But everyone else – no matter how rich they are – gets to keep this money for heads and can build up a fortune for their children with them. The tabloid press says how we're rich can save this money so that our kids become millionaires when they're 18. In addition, we get tips on how to avoid taxes on the road. So the rich are getting richer with this arrangement, and the poor are being deprived of what they have. In practice, then, child welfare is being tested only for the poorest, and so it cannot be. To determine and implement that social assistance is not curtailed because of these benefits will give several thousand dollars to the poorest families of children, and there will be no special advantage for them either, for there is only equal treatment with all of us who have always received this money unabated. Municipal Report has conducted a survey that shows that a large number of municipalities are counting on child welfare. They also include cash support. They do because they're in their full right. These have only been recommendations and no obligations. This will also be the case with the Government’s proposals for national guidance standards on social assistance. They will not be able to ensure that families with poor advice get better, because the Government will not oblige municipalities to follow the norm or contribute money to implement the promise for the poorest. In practice, it means that those who need more social assistance in order to get a decent life have to fight for too few crowns of nursing old and starving schools that now have to demand excesses of kids only to take a walk in the swimming pool. There will be a distribution between the poor and not between the poor and the rich. It is not the divisional conflict that this Government and the Prime Minister are constantly drawing up. The social assistance standard must be such that it is viable. There must be a fixed minimum standard that no one can go under, and the stone-rich state must finance this promise for the poor. So to get rid of the props in school. That is the political consensus on that. Nevertheless, such peculiarities are required every day: for class trips, for swimming, for kose hours, for gifts and sometimes for ordinary learning material. For example, in the ECON report, Social Puls, we read: about Kristian in 6B that has to be left in 6A when the class travels on class tour that they have saved for one year. The trip costs $1,600, and the mother of Kristian can't afford it. He's hurting his stomach, and preferably of everything, he'll never go to school again. That is a very strong report. What kind of appetite and attitude are we giving to the poorest kids? We should give clear information to all children and young people that they are equally valuable, and that they should have the same amount and the same opportunity. No one is more dependent on being in all the school can offer them than those who come from home with little money. No one depends more on the school being good and diverse than them. No one's earned a poor school, and no one's earned that the solution to this is that the whole class stays at home, so that whoever couldn't afford is sitting like a scapegoat and the one that ruined for the whole class to be allowed to leave. This must be done by the Government. They have to beat the table, remove the excesses and make sure the school can afford this, and it has to be done now. The same is true of the school leisure arrangements. Becomes an outlaw from the social communities, gets a non-friend, a sheep does not participate, and a loses appetite and progress. The central statistical agency has also shown that it is increasing the number of children in third and fourth children, etc. will meet very well with the poor families. Children are the most important resource we have in this society. Now a lot of progress is being wasted on and on, and many children feel that they have very little to look forward to. It is a good policy to ensure everyone, and not least it is a right policy, which a government should do everything in its power to ensure. So the question is, what will the Council of State do to remove child poverty, and when will that happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e300	Norwegian children are largely provided with basic material needs. But growing up in a family with a very long-term economy can have a negative impact on children's living conditions and development in several areas. This means that it is difficult to participate in ordinary leisure activities and for some school activities as well. This poses an increased risk of poor living conditions and poor physical and mental health. It poses an increased risk of falling outside social networks and the education system. This type of poverty is particularly severe in a society with a generally high standard of living and high demands for material and social success. Many of these children describe the shame of being poor as one of the most difficult. However, even though the Equalisation Communication demonstrated positive income trends for families with children during the ten-year period 1986-96, those children who have not been included in the overall welfare development are our concerns. The number of poor children depends on whether you start from the annual distribution of income or whether you look at who has low income over time — no matter what method of calculation we use, the figure is too high. It is the Government's aim to ensure that all children have a safe and good childhood, including satisfactory material and economic growth conditions. These issues were discussed in depth during the Storting’s treatment of the Equalisation Communication. And as a follow-up, the Government will present an action plan for social and economic security in ours. The plan will form the basis for the Government's objectives and strategies in the distribution policy and will specify targeted individual actions to lift vulnerable groups. Disabled children’s families will be a priority target group for the measures. The plan will be presented in full in the Government's long-term programme for 2002-2005 and the implementation of the plan will be followed up in the annual budget proposals. The government will also present its own forecast of children’s and young people’s living conditions during the spring. We will be particularly concerned here with how we can prevent people from falling outside for economic reasons, and how we can promote the smoothing of living conditions among children and young people. The government’s strategies and measures to prevent poverty among children and families with children will therefore be communicated in a comprehensive context to the Stortinget later in spring. I therefore do not want to go too far into concrete individual measures at this stage. However, let me say something here about how we approach the poverty problem among children. In particular, there are three aspects that characterise people who have poor advice in Norway: low education, poor employment relationships, and high housing prices. The government's strategy will focus on these issues in particular. In addition, it is important to see that we are not talking about any uniform group, where many different measures need to be put in place while at the same time enabling individuals to create a new, independent economic platform. At the same time, we must recognise that for some people self-sufficiency through work is not realistic. These people, and the children for whom they are responsible, must be financially ensured through our public welfare systems. The government wants to make the social welfare and transfer schemes more targeted for families with children and some of these measures are already under way. Several families with children are receiving housing support, we are running housing programmes for the disadvantaged, and we are working on a number of measures to contribute to a more humane working life. In particular, it is important to facilitate flexible arrangements between work and social security. We also consider increasing the child supplement for the disabled. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health provides this week's guidance on the measurement of social benefits for living under the Social Services Act. It is my intention that the guidelines should contribute to a more consistent practice in measuring issues of financial support in municipalities and greater equality in measured social benefits where the need for assistance is the same. In the long term, the guidelines will also help to raise the level of social benefits in municipalities that are currently low. Special attention has been paid to children in the design of the indicative rates. In a circular to the municipalities with the new guidelines, I stress that account should be taken of the fact that children should have as normal an adult as possible when measuring social benefits for families with children. In addition, the Ministry has given clear signals through a circular to the municipalities in 1998 that expenditure on children beyond basic basic needs, for example: expenditure on leisure activities, leisure equipment, expenses relating to holidays, branding and children’s association shall be eligible as necessary for the maintenance of life on a case-by-case basis. Parents who cannot afford to let their children take part in a normal social life during leisure time may also receive help from child protection services in some cases. Under the Child Protection Act, as part of preventive child protection work, assistance can be provided to children in the form of financial support for, for example: holiday and leisure activities. It is also important to ensure that children’s education is free of charge. Trond Giske has explained to the Storting in the spontaneous question hour how he will approach exactly this. The representative, Andersen, deals with the relationship between social assistance and child welfare in particular. Child welfare is a general scheme that goes unabated to all families with children. Economic social assistance is urgently needed. It involves making a concrete assessment of the financial situation of the household, both income and expenditure, in relation to the measurement of social benefits. Thus, child protection shall be taken into account when assessing the need for assistance, while expenditure on children shall be the subject of a specific assessment. The relationship between social assistance and cash support was also mentioned in the Equalisation Communication. A majority of the Storting Social Committee joined the proposal to advise municipalities to keep out of the cash support by measuring social assistance. A practice of keeping cash support out of the way violates the basic principles of social assistance as a subsidiary and needs-tested benefit. In my opinion, a person should not undermine these principles but retain social assistance as a lower economic safety net. Keeping out of cash support may also lead to unreasonable differences between other similar groups. Nor will I fail to point out that such a practice can have unfortunate incentives because some families will be able to have a significantly better economy than they can get through profitable work. In my opinion, the overall financial situation of each family should be taken into account when assessing the need for assistance. I would therefore advise the municipalities to consider the cash support as income when measuring financial benefits under the Social Services Act. At the same time, I recommend that municipalities use their own age-specific guidelines for financial support for children. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the most important and most effective approach to the problem of poverty is the prevention of its occurrence. The government's policy for a safe social economy, for increased value creation and for maintaining and improving our general welfare systems is the main policy to prevent children and adults from falling outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e334	I am at least happy with one thing in the Council of State's answer, and it is that she sees that there is no fundamental difference between the direct financial benefits of the families with children, such as child welfare, cash support and one-off assistance at birth. What worries me more is that the Minister of Social Affairs does not see the gross injustice and the threat it is actually against the whole system of general benefits – as it is – that in practice it is only the poorest who do not have the effect of that money. In my view, it's a way of counting that we can't live with. The other thing that I can't avoid is that it seems to be terribly difficult to put into life any concrete measures that can work now. There is no excuse to say that there will be a big message, a long-term message, or that it will be seen in an overall context. When we know that there's something that hits these families right now, and we know that they've lived so long, and we know how harmful and devastating it is for these children living in these families, there's nothing in the way of getting around and doing some action now. We could do it last year – we should do it last year. So now we're going to have to wait even longer. I find no reasonable explanation in the Council of State's explanation as to why it is right to wait, when we agree on what this reality looks like, and how harmful it is to these kids. Why is it possible to change policies in other areas when we see things going wrong, but not in relation to these children? So finally, what is the reason why the Social Minister and the Government believe that guiding standards should raise the level of social assistance? The guidance is now also provided. Guidance has been given that the cash support should be excluded. There are a lot of municipalities that haven't done. The municipalities have a deficit of NOK 11 billion, and they have a lot of tasks at the top of the agenda. When social assistance clients do not win the Social Minister and the Government, why does the Minister of Social Affairs think that the social clients should be the top players and win the fight for the municipal budgets, when there are so many other pressing tasks there that one also needs to solve? It's very hard to understand that you have faith in this technique, that it will help. And then I can't get away from the feeling that this is kind of a policy that, when you have such bad advice that you have to get social help, you have to have it a little bad. It's the technique: if you have one that's a little bit hurt, you'll get one together and get better. I think, unfortunately, that it seems the opposite, that this is a negative spiral that takes the courage of people and prevents them from getting on their legs again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e343	Social assistance is the economic plan that will work when none of the many other financial arrangements are sufficient. That's why the group we're talking about is social welfare recipients, very diverse. Therefore, pinching your fingers and saying some large amount must necessarily be a little targeted. That's why we're working on a lot of measures for these people who've been hooked up to a spiral of poverty, with more stakes, where we're going to be able to take action at the same time. We know that some children live in poverty because their parents do not prioritize them, and then it is quite important that we also take time to do exactly what Andersen said, namely look at the general arrangements in particular. schools, school leisure arrangements and kindergartens, and so does the Government. In the case of indicative standards, it has been shown, inter alia: in Sweden that municipalities are approaching them, so that there will be reasonable equality in the country. The local government has actually done something about it and will continue to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e350	We saw this in the work on the Equalisation Communication: Difficult families with children are often concerned with the relationship of parents to the labour market. The follow-up to the Equalisation Communication is important for children in low-income families. This work is on track. I would like to remind you that the State budget provided better housing support, housing measures in the big cities and more labour-intensive social security rules. I am pleased that during the spring the government is promoting a growing message about children and young people's growth and living conditions, an action plan for social and economic security, and an action plan for the care of drug addicts, and that new, higher social assistance standards with their own rates for children are on their way to the municipalities. The Minister of Social Affairs deserves commendation for having taken special care of the children. It must be noted that both the cost and the burden of having little increases with the age of the child. It is also appropriate to increase child allowances for social security and housing support for families with children. I believe that the social and child protection services in each municipality are aware of the children involved. The poor children most likely have parents with social assistance. And many social centres have organised their work towards unemployed social welfare beneficiaries in their own service unit and achieved good results. With good management, all social centres have the opportunity to focus on the situation of children and, within their framework, give priority to children in families with whom they already have contact. We have qualified staff to deploy measures. With a targeted focus on children, both social services law rules on financial assistance and the Child Protection Act provide sufficient frameworks for granting specific financial benefits and other support to children, such as: support for participation in ordinary school and leisure activities, and grant a special share for kindergartens, leisure homes and camp trips. General increase in financial support for those with the lowest income does not ensure that the money goes to the most difficult children. Local, competent help with the focus on children is most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e361	Poverty should not be a theme in one of the richest countries in the world. Nevertheless, figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that approx. 65,000 people in this country are chronically poor, i.e. that they have an average income below the poverty line over a period of at least 10 years. At least 20,000 of these are children. This is clearly unacceptable. Poverty among children is particularly serious, for example: because long-term low incomes lead these children into an evil circle, not only so that they cannot be involved in the activities of other children, but also because they often grow up with poor health, more often than others have abnormal behaviour and more often than others become poor as adults. As politicians, we have a clear responsibility to facilitate the situation so that poverty can be eradicated as much as possible by our own efforts and/or social assistance. After the least-retirement pensioners have been given their high-retirement status, there are now beneficiaries of social assistance who have been slowing down the backbone of the welfare community. These issues were discussed in the context of the anti-dithering message presented by the central government. The Christian People's Party joined here, like the majority in the United Kingdom, in the proposal to introduce a state-guided norm for social assistance. We were also in that number of committees, all except the Progress Party, which believes that the cash support should not be included in the income base of the applicant for social assistance. I notice here that the Minister of Social Affairs is going against a majority that includes the Workers' Party, and I do not find the justification satisfactory. It is important to remember that the cash support is a benefit provided to parents who choose to be at home with their children and thus miss a corresponding amount in the form of government funding for kindergartens. The main response to child poverty is targeted action against the low-income groups, mainly the social welfare beneficiaries. The Christian People's Party, like the majority of the Social Committee, believes that the differences in the payment of social assistance are partly large and inexplicable, and that therefore indicative State standards are necessary. We also believe that a system of qualification pay should be explored for long-term beneficiaries of social welfare who are demanding participation, attendance and qualification, and support the proposal in the Equalisation Communication to set up an internal working group to address the issue of guaranteed minimum income. It is the poverty of parents that is the result of children's poverty. Voluntary organisations — which have been mentioned — are making considerable and well-known efforts in this area. But the public has a responsibility that has not been properly followed up so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e378	Poverty bit itself stuck in Norway today. There is a need for a cross-political and a cross-organisational effort to prevent the unworthy lifestyles of single children in this country today. The dithering message is a hub for improvement, both because the analyses tell you what this is, and because these are proposals for concrete improvements. But a message doesn't help if we don't have the mandatory follow-up now. Strengthening support for voluntary organisations and cultural actions is also important for the network that many of these young people currently lack. We're impatient. We stressed from the Centre Party in the context of the process of anti-dithering that there was a urgency, especially with regard to measures for disadvantaged children. It is directly alarming, I think, that the Council of State is still using the term ‘assessing’ to increase the child supplement in the disability pension. Is there any scheme that is more targeted than just that of disadvantaged children? I would also like to ask the government to comment on whether it will do something about the transition support for a single provider, and to make it more flexible. And then, of course, I would like to stress the good measures that have already been taken, which relate to both work and housing for more and better supports. It is good news that state guidance standards are now on the way to the municipalities, as it ensures greater non-discrimination. But it's only a good message if these standards give a better level than today to stick to for those who wear. In the case of cash support, the Central Party shares its assessment by the Minister of Social Affairs with a view to withdrawing cash support into the income base. In the case of child-restraint, it can be handled in two ways, either drawn into income, but then with the corresponding strengthening of the child-restraints’ situation, or kept out. For us, it's not decisive what the money is called. For us, it is decisive that one with these norms prepares a better level as a starting point. Has the Social Minister here considered the difference between couples with and without children? By these standards, has she taken into account the North Norway Supplements, as well as for single fronters who are currently there and who are actually suggesting that child-restraint should be kept outside? If it has taken a height of that in the income and in addition to the municipal economy, we shall be content, but not before.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e393	I thought it was a very important question that the representative Andersen raised today. Even if there is a big message about children's living conditions and the long-term programme, there are some things we from the Left would like to point out. The Council of State in a way expressed the fear that a person would have social security benefits and social assistance rates that would make it pay to receive social security and social assistance rather than to go to work. That fear, I think, never gets to target the bets. There is never enough political will to target measures against those at the bottom of the ranks today. One has the embedded fear that it will pay to receive social security. But I think most people want to get out of work. They want it, because all the indicators point out that it's good for health, it's good for the social network, and it dissolves a lot. A wish to be associated with the labour market. If we were to point out some things from the Left, it is quite clear that we don't want to shorten all of the child's supplements in different schemes because parents receive social assistance or indebtedness. Now the new debt law has been out to the ears. She has a doctor in the department for a very long time, and we've been waiting for her. She's warned in April, and I hope that there are arrangements in place to change today's practice where the resources for entertaining children are assessed differently, and it's now important that a few bets for entertaining children who secure the most equal treatment for families with debt problems. Governments are talking about making arrangements to combine work and social security. That thinks we're from the Left is important. However, it is equally important, from the left's point of view in any case, to continue to work at coordinating social offices, social security funds and the labour market seat. This is a managed system that often leads to a clientization of the users, and it is the hardest one that has the least resources to brief on in the system. Getting this coordination will trigger a lot of resources that you can use for more targeted actions. I also want to bring out NOU 2000: 12. It can be seen that unacceptable detoxification and marginalisation processes are currently taking place in the growing age of children and young people. It was also Andersen's representative inside. It seems that this is an increasing and negative development. Increasingly, growth has been characterised by commercial forces, which means that children and young people need to have an acceptable economic background in order to be accepted. I'm sorry. There is something we have to decide when to assess what is poverty in today's Norway. I hope that the Council of State in the Notice of Storing will also take moments like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e406	The problem of more children living in poverty is, as I said, a complex problem. However, one of the most significant conditions for having the bills under control is that one has housing costs that harmonize with the income. The size has said and decided a lot about this in recent years. One of the arrangements that are of major importance in terms of housing costs is housing aid. As part of the follow-up of St.meld. No 50 for 1998-99, The Equalisation Communication, a project to monitor and assess the relationship between housing aid and social assistance has been launched. Several proposals from the NBI report on the relationship between housing support and social assistance have been made. This shall now be assessed by the Government and that report shall also be involved in the work of the designated Public Housing Committee. In the option of St.meld. No 16 for 2000-2001, on the activities of the Husbank in 1998-99, an overall committee notes that the number of families with children who rent housing and are eligible for housing support has almost tripled from the first to third semester 1999. This makes it apparent that changes in housing support schemes are justified and are very positive, because they are affecting those who have the most difficulty in having a decent dwelling. It is also a scheme that is independent of the form of financing of the dwelling. However, the NBI report shows that there is still room for improvement. In 2001, over 90 municipalities will cooperate with the House Bank on housing challenges for disadvantaged groups. The House Bank, in cooperation with municipalities, also has a number of different instruments that make it possible to put together, for example: financing packages of loans, grants and, where appropriate, housing allowances adapted to each household. As I said, it is difficult for measures to take each child, but in housing policy we have at least the opportunity to take each family.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e415	It is an important theme taken up by Andersen. It's nice that she feels hurt on behalf of those who have the least in this country, and I agree that people have poor advice, have consequences for many kids, as Andersen mentions. I think, however, that the representative Andersen found himself in the attempt to simplify the problems – or better: point to solutions that have many dilemmas in them and that do not solve the problems. I am pleased that the case is given considerable space in the long-term programme by presenting an action plan there. But I want to ask the Social Minister if there's anything going on with the social aid measures now, or pretty soon, and what she's got on the stairs there. The poor have either too low wages, too low social assistance or social security — or too low income in a combination of these forms of income. It actually applies to most of them. They have some income and some social security. Young people who do not get the equipment they need, who are able to participate in sports or go on birthdays are children of these parents. In addition, however, children and parents are unable to give priority to their needs. These two groups need different measures, and we talk about them as if it were the same thing. Then I'm in on these dilemmas, because as was said at the poverty conference that FO organised last week, which I was actually on, together with Andersen, it's important that we make arrangements that at the same time stimulate people to go to work. It was said quite specifically that we need to ensure that the help workers still want to work, even if they do not have such a high salary. Then we get a dilemma in relation to the universal, in relation to the more targeted with more individual measures. We need to do more and more to create norms and create them the same, and create a framework where they get it as a salary. Sometimes this has not necessarily resulted in better young people, because parents are unable to give priority to young people. Those who have enough, but are unable to prioritise, may once again need to highlight some of the discussions about when more general versus more individual schemes are involved. I'd like to do a little bit of a problem with the norms and what to keep out of the social welfare code. The point is not what you're doing or what it's doing. The point is that the sum of it goes into jump. It does not help not to include child benefits and cash benefits if, for example: assumes that a 17-year-old's child's pension is enough for a 17-year-old. For approx. 1000 kroner per month is not good to keep a 17-year-old with food and equipment. For me, it's much more important that we get a combination when it comes to how we have to evaluate income and expenditure, which gives enough money to do what is needed. And it needs to be adapted to each age, because it costs more to have a 17-year-old than a 4-5-year-old, for example. So my acquittal to the Minister for Social Affairs is that if a law is to set standards, a fit has to look very carefully at both the income and expenditure sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e433	I record that there has been no disagreement about the description of the situation today. What I'm recording is that the majority is most concerned about problematizing the dilemmas by doing something concrete now rather than problematizing the big dilemma it is that many children live in such a situation, and have done so for a long time. We know about it, and we don't have the power to do anything about it. There are dilemmas associated with all of these arrangements. No one's in any doubt about it. But we have to do something, and we have to do it soon. We don't need any more piles of paper. We need to do something that hits these families. To, for example: excluding child rights from this coordination with the social system will help them. It is absolutely right that some of these children are also exposed to the unpriority of their parents. That's right! But it's a gross injustice that it should be that everyone else gets this money, just not them. It's part of the policy in which we disqualify people because they have bad advice. Those are bad signals. Had some of those who believe that this is not a good order, could have said: yes, at least fixed standards, minimum social welfare standards, it would have helped. Then it is not a matter of removing the need test on a supplementary social security, but it is a matter of setting a floor that no one should live under. When it comes to social security, we think of it that way. Why in the world is there to be different with those who don't have a salary they can live on? Why do we think they're going to be examined with the magnifying glass every month, and that highly educated people are going to use the time to sit and count on this instead of using the time to help them socially professionally with the things they need help with? So this is all the other big schemes – the fact that the school should be free of charge, that kindergarten prices must be reduced, and that school leisure prices must be reduced, and that cultural services for children and young people must be available, where they can go without having to pay for themselves, and without being excluded if they cannot. Yeah, that's the most important thing, because in a way, it makes everyone get access. But then we have to make sure it happens. It's completely possible to do that. We had a chance for Christmas. We have a chance next month, if we want. So if we want to do something about this, we can do it now. There's a lot of ways to do something about it, and as we know, these families. SV fully agrees that a major review is needed in many of these policy areas. We see the need for that. But we do not share the patience of the Government and the majority on behalf of these kids, who are now outlawed, and who get so much of their hope for the future and their faith in the future ruined by our greed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e446	Social assistance has been in focus today. It was asked when they came out. They'll be here this week. Social assistance will never lift anyone out of poverty. It is in the nature of this social security scheme. It will, however, make it a little bit easier to be poor. But the main effort must be in other fields. That's where the promises have to come – the possibility of work, to get work training. Because we know that if people are out of work for too long, it's not easy to come back. We're already doing this. It requires that we have good housing at low prices. That's what we're doing. It also requires that the social welfare schemes we have provide room for those groups that cannot participate in the professional life. And so I've said that I'll come back a little bit later in ours. We also know that it is quite important if people are to be able to get into their own economy, that they can get good social guidance. This is being done, and good results are being achieved. Measures for knowledge and brewing, where knowledge of social affairs has been widely distributed in all Norwegian municipalities, have been very well received and have contributed to the fact that much more poor family members have really received help. I said in my introduction that some of the poor child reports as the most difficult, is the shame of being poor. The government wants a society where we're going to be proud, where growing children are going to have room for their peculiarity and living conditions. It is a challenge for all of us, both for us politicians and for people far beyond politics, to work with attitudes that focus on more than economic success as status goals. The government shall assume its responsibility for raising the minority financially.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e457	Then the interpellation debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e469	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e476	As in previous years, a comprehensive monitoring report on the business of the Husbank has been submitted. This time it applies to the years 1998 and 1999. The message is thorough, and it has been natural for the committee to attach some comments to some pages of the message. The Committee has noted that in 1998 fewer dwellings were built than in 1997. It is noted that from 1 July 1997 the entry into force of the Law on Planning and Building may be some of the reasons why there was a high level of activity in the sector of professional and commercial buildings. The interest rate increase is also included, of course. However, an overall committee is pleased that there has been a sharp rise in the second half of 1999. Then we get to hope that the entry problems with new planning and building laws are over, and that the trend of increased construction activity can continue. The Committee has been and remains committed to giving priority to homeless, young and disadvantaged groups. The Committee refers here to the comments made by the various fractions on the Husbank in the budgetary positions of the previous years and the Intst. S. No 100 for 1998-99 About housing for young and disadvantaged people. The Committee also points out that, in the context of the municipal action plans for the most disadvantaged in the housing sector, one has noticed that the Husbank expects to cooperate with 90 municipalities in 2001. The Committee believes that this is an important strategy for action that needs to deliver good results. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party refer to the positive developments in the use of establishment loans by municipalities. This majority believe that this is a good development, because start-up loans and mortgages are good instruments for owner-occupied dwellings for those who have difficulties in the ordinary loan market. This majority also indicates that there were several individuals applying for purchase loans in 1999 and that the reason for this is that the scheme is open to more young people in the start-up phase. An overall committee has noticed that the decline in the number of defaulted loans seems to have stopped. The Committee understands that the causal link is that a greater proportion of loans go to economically disadvantaged households. Although the Committee takes this into account, I can well add, as the rapporteur, that there is a development we must see coming. The majority of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left are asking in a majority comment that the Government considers extending the income limit for those who can use mortgages. This majority also consider it appropriate that the House Bank should better facilitate the purchase of reasonable used dwellings. This majority is also linked to the fact that municipalities set up municipal housing support schemes. This is a scheme that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has called for. However, I have come to the conclusion that a separate comment may be contradictory, and that comment is on page 10 of the setting. For us there is no contradiction in the fact that we want municipal housing support schemes, but at the same time we see that some municipalities can use the schemes a little differently than we would have liked. In addition, there is a majority who believe that the land costs are a very burdensome part of the investment into housing. In the view of this majority, therefore, both the State and the municipalities must now make greater contributions with reasonable or free plots in order to reduce the price of housing projects, especially for those with the lowest level of payability. An overall committee indicates that housing support is a very good scheme that allows certain low-income households to establish themselves in a good and sober housing. The housing support has otherwise received a broad and good review in the message. An overall committee therefore recommends that St.meld. No 16 shall be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e508	Statens Husbank is and has been an important traveler for a sensible housing policy in Norway. The fact that there is still a need for the House Bank shows, for example: the fact that there are 4,000 substandard dwellings in Oslo and an additional 1000 such dwellings in Bergen and Trondheim. We have just had a debate about poor children, and the Husbank's task is just to help people with difficult living conditions and housing needs to be able to live on their own – in addition to all of us who have benefited from this bank. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the House Bank becomes more flexible and adapts the goals that we want to achieve. For example, it's enough today to have a loan to buy used dwellings. There are some feedbacks that the income limits are too narrow and that, for example: many children’s families can fall between all chairs and not be able to adapt to the needs of buying a house. The same is true of young people and people with difficulty. This is a message about what has happened in the House Bank, and the case officer has done the right thing. The signal from the majority is that the House Bank should better facilitate the purchase of reasonable used buildings – that is a clear signal. The house bank is important for the elderly reform, but the Christian People's Party will stress that there is reason to worry that a care building costs NOK 3,200 more for the square meter than a normal dwelling. As a result, many older people become dependent on housing when they move in a nursing home, which we should have managed to avoid. And the Christian People's Party believes that when the older reforms are now extended and extended, one must do what is possible to reduce the cost of enterprise within this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e522	Only a few brief comments about the setting. In principle, the annual review of the annual report on the Statens Husbank has not usually taken place during the major debates in Stortinget, in addition to which the Stortinget has repeatedly discussed housing policy in connection with a number of different initiatives taken by different parties and governments in recent years. In this way, many of the comments in the setting are also more a summary of what different batches have meant. I just want to comment on two areas. One area is the historical backwardness and the question: was it correct in the 1990s to convert the House Bank so that instead of providing interest subsidies on a general basis to all those who built dwellings and were lucky to get loans from the House Bank, they agreed to targeted grants? From a minority, it is underlined that this was wrong. I think it's amazing when parts of that minority are at the same time among the parties that you think you should direct the bank towards becoming a more establishment-oriented bank. That's exactly what you do when you target your forms of grants instead of having the general scheme. In that way, I think it's striking that some parties are involved in exactly that kind of comments. The second part I want to say something about is the question related to the further development of the housing support system. The housing aid scheme is a good offer to ensure an increase in income and help with the expenditure of the weakest groups in the housing market, and in particular those with a long-term housing problem. I believe it is right that we further develop the housing support system for those who have a long-standing problem in the housing market, but I think it is important to distinguish between this; that everyone who has problems in the housing market and needs housing, including short-term help and social welfare for it, should be covered by a more permanent housing support scheme, that will be wrong. One of the reasons why, for example: young people are not covered by this scheme, if they are not disadvantaged or otherwise, it has been suggested that help for housing should be provided via the social services in the municipalities because this is not a permanent problem to be solved through these housing support schemes. In the chapter on housing aid written with comments from the Committee, there is a tendency to disguise the difference in terms of what a permanent housing aid scheme is, and what in a way should be the future task of the social offices in terms of social welfare for housing. I think it is important that we take into account the principle that housing support via social offices is a more flexible measure that helps in the short term, and that the State housing support system should be a system for groups that we see will have lasting problems in the housing market, and that will need income support to cope with their housing charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e533	St.meld. No 16 First of all, tell us that the Husbank is the state's most important instrument in housing policy. The message also shows that it was the right priority of the central government to increase the House Bank's framework from NOK 8 billion to NOK 11 billion, and that an additional strengthening is needed. The House Bank participates in the many lending and lending arrangements to provide a range of housing policy solutions that market forces alone do not implement well enough. When both start-up loans, start-up advances and entry loans go largely to those who establish themselves for the first time, it tells something about that in itself. The House Bank is also involved in promoting housing environment and quality in connection with both new construction and repair. This is particularly true of the niches in the housing market that the Husbank is part of, for example: student housing, rentals, nursing homes, kindergartens, etc. In addition to the financial resources available to the House Bank, this institution has seen a monthly professional competence. There is no doubt that both professional advice and guidance are best not only for the individual customer, but also for the big community. We want from the Center Party's side to come back in another context to the future of the House Bank, but we want to stretch under the important place that we think the House Bank will also have to have in the future. I would like to focus on a common comment from several parties, a plural comment on page 8 of the option, where young people and those with difficulty are problematic. This is a large and heterogeneous group of people, where extra effort is important. Several actions from the batch message have already been started. We would like to contribute to the further strengthening of the Husbank's schemes for the use of municipalities in their work with homeless people, and we would also like the Government to assess several funding schemes or pilot schemes, whether they are related to Bucollective or other schemes – co-financing with organisations, etc. So we also want to emphasize the need to look at income limits for those who have the potential today to use mortgages. A limit of NOK 225 000 prevents many people from benefiting from the Husbank from the purchase of a reasonably used dwelling. We would like the House Bank to be used even more actively and to benefit even more people when they buy used housing. Finally, I will challenge the Minister of State to the status of measures against the homeless, and in particular the projects relating to the five largest cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e544	The House Bank report shows that the use of housing policy instruments works, and when we do too little of it, it gets wrong and particularly affects young people and people with poor advice. There are clear figures in the message that demonstrate that when you have too little effort in this area, the problems increase, they become partly very large and result in structural effects that are difficult to correct. To build and secure enough dwellings are projects that take time. I especially want to challenge the Council of State and ask a little bit about an area that is occupying me very much. SV and the Workers' Party have agreed that a strong increase in the number of reasonable, cheap, rental homes is a very important central tool now. What we are now seeing, and as the Committee has also written in a note that the Workers' Party is involved, is expressing concern that a system is now being set up in which more and more municipalities go from a system of general rental subsidies on municipal rental housing to a system of market rental/holiday rental combined with municipal housing support schemes. These housing support schemes are sometimes short-term in some places, i.e. some kind of emergency assistance to get over a knee. It can lead to very high rents in municipal rentals, and so the number of cheap apartments is very reduced, and it is true that this is contrary to what the Government says it will, and what we have agreed with the Government in our heart, namely that there is a need for more cheap housing – and they must therefore be cheap. We need to find ways to make these homes actually cheap over time, i.e. these where we use state housing policy instruments through the grant scheme, and make sure that the efforts here are low so that the rental is at least initially low. Therefore, the SV, the Christian People's Party and the Centre have written in annotated form that we would point out that investments in rental properties with regulated low rentals are far more long-term and forward-looking use of money than in one way to establish all kinds of housing support schemes. It's money that kind of goes into operation, while the money that we might put into grant schemes that can allow municipalities to build more cheap homes is investment funds, and that's money that we guarantee in the long term and that can help society have a large enough buffer of cheap rental homes when we need it. I get a little worried when I see that the Workers' Party and the Government do not share this concern and support the view that we have to make sure that these municipal rental homes also have a reasonable rent, but instead in a way leans on a scheme where the municipalities are going to go more and more into their own housing support schemes and supplement it. It's going to be a very difficult and unbridled housing policy. A more structured and predictable housing policy will, of course, be to ensure that the State grants you contribute to housing projects, whether local authorities or other non-profit institutions that receive them and which are intended to provide housing to disadvantaged people, lead to a sustainable low-regulated rental. I understand that the word ‘regulated’ may have difficulties, but the point here is that we need to ensure both the state investment and that the number of cheap rentals is increasing, and we need to ensure that the number of cheap rentals is not reduced because we allow the municipalities, which is the largest owner of these dwellings, to increase their rentals and to make more or less accurate and good housing support schemes, among others. some of them are very short-term. I want to ask the Council of State if she can get into this a little bit, because this is quite important political leadership, where, in my view, as I thought it was, in a way the dividing line goes between the Workers' Party, the Centre and the SV on the one hand, and the Progress Party and the Right on the other, and where our housing policy instruments are based on that we want to build up a rental housing sector that should to some extent be protected and to be for the weakest, while the right-hand side's answer is more housing support and in a way targeted, direct personalised arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e555	I am pleased that the Committee is well pleased with the efforts of the House Bank and its role in the housing market. I share the Committee's concern about developments in housing for young and disadvantaged people. There is no doubt that the housing market in the press areas is unbalanced, and for young and disadvantaged people it has become more difficult to establish itself in owner-occupiers or rental homes. This was also the starting point for me to publish last summer a list of challenges we need to solve in order to get a solid housing policy. As the Committee is well aware, the government proposed a sharp increase in the arrangements, with money in the budget for this year. I'm glad the Stortinge decided. In addition to loans and grants to initial start-ups, the entry is central to the budget line. As the key instrument of the general housing policy, the entry link helps us to achieve objectives related to, among other things, housing policy. standard of living, good housing, a good living environment and a varied composition of dwellings. The roster contributes to the choice of good, socially and resource-economically sound solutions and also serves district purposes. I think the message confirms that there is a need for a specific effort towards young and disadvantaged people. As the majority of the Committee notes, the term ‘young and disadvantaged’ includes a large and heterogeneous group of people. It is therefore important to target the grant schemes in order to address the different housing needs. A common housing policy means that we cannot accept that there are about 6 000 homeless people in Norway. I therefore think, like the Committee, that one of the most important tasks of housing policy for the House Bank is to contribute to the possibility of living in owner-occupied dwellings for the homeless and other particularly disadvantaged households. The representative, Meltveit Kleppa, is wondering what the projects are like in relation to the big cities. As the Committee and the Stortinget are well-known, a cooperation project has been set up between the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the cities of Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim, Stavanger and Kristiansand to find good solutions. The progress of the project is good. For example, the mountains have established three-city housing units for homeless people with drug problems. So this goes its way. And it's important that we manage to keep pace up, I fully agree. The majority of the Committee refers to the positive developments in the use of setting-up loans by municipalities and the increase in the number of buying-in loans. Loans and mortgages are good means of providing owner-occupancy for those who have difficulties in the ordinary loan market. I have noticed that the Committee believes that today's income limits in obtaining a purchase loan from the House Bank exclude many households who need assistance. I would therefore like to provide one of the next days with new regulations for both start-up loans and mortgages, so that the need tests will be both simpler and not as tight as before, in line with the Committee's comments. With regard to the elderly plan and the work of strengthening housing for the elderly and caregivers, I am pleased that the Committee expresses the view that the House Bank is doing a good job. The House Bank will contribute to the success of this reform, I am convinced of that. But I share the Committee's concern about the construction costs. It is therefore important that municipalities and the House Bank pay great attention to this problem and look at opportunities to reduce construction costs, for example. by the greater choice of municipalities to improve the existing housing stock rather than necessarily to build everything new. In the opinion of Regeringa, several municipalities should establish and actively use municipal housing support schemes. I see that the majority of the committee is in favour of local authorities setting up their own housing aid schemes to a greater extent. It contributes to the efficient use of municipal resources and the targeting and targeting of those most in need. In the NBI report on ‘The relationship between housing aid and social assistance’, the NBI comes up with several amendments that the Government will consider in greater detail. The report will also be discussed in the Public Housing Committee. I see that the Committee is in favour of this and that it would otherwise like to improve the housing support system for disadvantaged families and young people. Finally, let me try to comment on some of what the representative Karin Andersen was concerned about. Anyway, I don't think there's any doubt that at least most parties are concerned that it should be possible for everyone to live, and that the rent should be as reasonable as possible for those who need it the most. I have read the comments and heard what has been said by, among others. Representative Andersen. But I feel the need to stress that the municipalities are solving this differently. The study carried out from, among others: The Norwegian Construction Research Institute shows that municipal housing aid is mainly linked to social households with low incomes, so that it is targeted against many of the municipal housing support schemes. It's solved differently, but in sum we have to get a system that allows us to be sure that we can do something to help those who need it the most. But I'm taking the comments further.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e585	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1853]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e599	We are about to deal with the Innst today. S. No 101, position of the Municipal Committee on the activities of the Sameting in 1999. The Committee gave its opinion on 19 December 2000. The fact that we only debate it today is related to the fact that the vote is to be held in both Sami and Norwegian. On the basis of Sections 1-3 of the Sameting Act, the Annual Report of the Sameting is to be transmitted to the Government. The annual notification shall be submitted to the Stortinge every year. The notification is a governance document for the government and accumulation in the handling and discussion of Sami issues. The Annual Communication presents the political work of the Sameting, the administrative tasks of the Sameting and economic and administrative challenges. In St.meld. No 7 for 2000-2001, as submitted by the Government to the Stortinget, the Annual Report of the Sameting has been submitted as a new Chapter 2. In its annual report, the merger has raised several questions of a principle nature. A joint committee has noted that the Government aims to present a fundamental discussion of Norwegian common policies. The Committee notes that the Government intends to present the next Communication of Principles in spring 2001 — and assumes that the long-term policy guidelines of the Government and the Stortinget will be given in the context of its consideration. As the rapporteur on the matter, I am pleased to note that there is an overall majority in almost all the questions on which the opinion is expressed, with the exception of the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, who are of the basic opinion that the composition should be closed. The majority have noticed that the Sameting is satisfied with the Government’s feedback, cf. St.meld. No 48 for 1998-99, as the representatives of the Sameting also expressed at the hearing in connection with St.meld. No 7th@item: The majority have further registered the Sameeting's claim for a separate negotiation model for the work on Sami matters. The government asks in its comment The Sametinge to draw up a model for such possible negotiations. In view of future challenges, the majority are concerned that these issues will be clarified in the context of the Storting's treatment of the suspension of the Joint Committee, or discussed in the context of the notified policy communication in spring 2001. The majority of the Committee agrees with the Consensus that further clarification of the responsibilities of the assembly, government and magnification is still necessary and is of the opinion that, if clarifications are needed in key areas due to the ratification by Norway of ILO Convention No. 169, it would be appropriate for the Government to discuss this in the context of the Spring Communication of Principles. As regards the Government's cooperation with the Sameting, a majority has noted that the Government will take greater initiative in regular dialogue and cooperation with the Sameting. Another majority is pleased with the government's organization of work in relation to the Sami people and the Samessation over the past few years, but at the same time stresses the importance of more people joining the same number, thus giving legitimacy to the merger choice. The Committee also commented on the follow-up by the respective ministries to the comments of the Sameting. I would particularly like to point out the comments of the Committee of the Regions in connection with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. The majority point out that the right of all co-workers of primary school age to training in Sami is a fundamental right. The court is determined by the new training law § 6-2. This right applies to all primary school students in the Sami district. The Court includes training both in Sami and in Sami. The majority believe that it is important that the school owners be stimulated to provide additional language training for linguistic minorities as well as for co-workers and women in secondary education through the established grant scheme. In the course of the closure and closure of the special pedagogical programme for North Norway, the majority noted that from 1 August last year, one annual work was established in connection with the establishment of a specialised specialised educational centre of excellence for Sami users. The majority have also noted that in 1999 the Ministry of Children and Family gave funds to a project in Kautokeino with the aim of establishing a child protection service that respects the individual child’s Sami cultural identity and language. The majority are satisfied with the continuation of this project. A comprehensive committee underlines the need for renumbering in Finnmark and points out that this has been a key issue in the context of the reindeer management agreement in recent years. An overall committee also stresses that the reports of losses from Finnmark are of great concern. I am therefore pleased that we have received notice that the department wants to go in and look specifically at the situation in Kautokeino. The majority of the Committee is satisfied with the establishment of a separate position for a female and family consultant at Rein driftsverwaltungsverwaltung, and the majority consider it necessary to stress that the so-called women’s networks, which were previously directly supported, must be maintained and are an important part of this work. The majority of the committees also point to the human rights law – the law of 21 May 1999 – which the majority adopts as a further contribution to strengthening Sami rights in Norwegian law. The majority point out that the Government is seeking to clarify a number of international legal obligations that the State has with respect to the Joint Committee’s sub-committee – NOU 1997:4, the Natural Basis for Sami Culture. Another majority emphasises that during the ongoing work on the implementation of Stortinget’s decision on the interconnection of Mauken and Bluetooth shooting fields, the Defence Department has continued to cooperate with the Sami Cultural Memory Council in order to fulfil the obligations of the action holder under the Cultural Memory Act. The majority is satisfied with this. An overall committee indicates that the Government has promoted a proposition to the Storting for the amendment of Section 12 of the Wildlife Act, which proposes changes to the laws that allow for a more flexible management practice, including killing schemes for wild game, that can prevent loss. The development of a system of state hunters could increase the efficiency of withdrawals and killings in relation to the damage problem. The Committee has also noted that, as regards slaughtering requirements and replacements, new arrangements will be put in place for the 2000-2001 grubbing-up year. A new and significantly improved reindeer management compensation scheme, in which large-loss reindeer holdings are added to the compensation for the resolution of operational problems caused by large losses, is taken into account by the Committee. Finally, the number of committees shows that it is natural that the Sameting has always been represented in the Norwegian delegation to the UN negotiations in connection with the UN's work on an indigenous declaration. The majority believe that cooperation between the Government and the Federation is still necessary in the work of setting up a permanent forum for indigenous peoples in the United Nations. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to underline the work on human rights both in Norway and globally. The size of the population is now receiving a big message about national minorities and a big message about asylum and refugee policy. It is important that the Storting follow up on the work of human rights. On the day of the Same people on February 6th, according to Nordlys on February 7th, Mayor Sylvia Brustad revealed that she wanted more use of the Sami flag. It's important that we get rules regarding the use of the Sami flag. At the same time, it is absolutely essential that we find solutions in the processes that are taking place that all the peoples of Norway can live with. No one is served by the kind of crises that we, for example, have. experience in my own state, Troms. I am thinking about the crisis in Kåfjord in connection with the language law. Everyone deserves to be taken into account in the processes before us, taking into account all the parties, and that there is a great deal of tolerance. I recommend the Committee's proposal to the Stortinget that St.meld. No 7, Annexed to the Protocol on the activities of the merged entity in 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e646	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1853]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e660	It is a unanimous committee that agrees to the conclusion of a free trade agreement between EFTA and Macedonia. I therefore only have a few brief comments. This is an agreement that will make one of several contributions to the implementation of the Stability Pact for South-East Europe – a pact to promote, inter alia, the development of the Stability Pact. democratic processes and institutions, and in particular contribute to development, growth and regional cooperation in the area. In this connection, I would also like to refer to the Innst. S. No 128 for 1999-2000, where we discussed the main features of future Norwegian assistance to the countries of south-east Europe. In addition to the priorities, arrangements and channelling of Norwegian assistance to the south-east Balkan region, it also underlined the wish – through trade policy measures – to contribute to the economic development of the region. The free trade agreement between EFTA and Macedonia must be seen as part of such a whole. With this I recommend a unanimous setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e671	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1853]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e685	Today, when we are considering the institutional solutions for the association of Norway and Iceland with the Dublin Code and the Dublin Convention, we are not discussing Norwegian asylum seekers' policies. The content of Norwegian refugee and asylum seekers' policies determines Norway itself completely sovereignly. In this respect, I would like to refer to St.meld. No 17, which is currently being treated in Stortinget. However, both Norway and the other countries participating in the Schengen cooperation, as parties to the UN Convention on Refugees and to the European Convention on Human Rights, are obliged to contribute to protection against persecution and international protection for people in exile. Persecution because of racial and political views is among the reasons why people flee from their original homeland. In recent years, civil wars and internal conflicts in countries and regions have contributed strongly to refugee flows, and the problems of refugee flows and large groups of asylum seekers often need to be resolved in a broader international context. Mandatory international cooperation and coordination are often essential. We have a long tradition of Nordic cooperation, including: on the integration of immigrants and refugees. Cooperation with other countries and the exchange of information can also provide a better understanding of the different challenges we face. Formalisation and cooperation within the EU are important for Norway, as this has a significant impact on the development and influx of asylum seekers to our own country. The Dublin Convention is part of European, legal and judicial cooperation and determines the country in which an asylum case belongs in the EU system. The Convention also gives asylum seekers the right to have an asylum application processed in one of the Member States. Thus, the Convention must prevent a situation in which an asylum seeker is rejected without treatment in all European countries, i.e. all countries within the EU or Schengen area. The Convention shall also discourage the processing by the authorities of more than one country of asylum applications promoted in several Member States. This means that a country in the area of cooperation can send the asylum seeker back to the country that has already dealt with his or her asylum application. But, of course, a Member State is free to deal with an asylum application even if it has no obligation under the Dublin Convention because the asylum seeker has been dealt with in another country under the agreement. Furthermore, the Convention does not regulate the conditions for asylum. There is also no common EU policy. Dublin rules must be said to be part of the dynamic development of justice in the EU, with increased flows of refugees, trafficking in human beings, prostitution and organised crime across borders. They also require supranational, international and solidarity solutions. Furthermore, the Dublin Convention is a direct follow-up to our accession to Schengen, which is due to take place on 25 March this year. The institutional cooperation agreement on Schengen underlines that a separate system of association with the Dublin rules should be agreed, also because the Treaty of Amsterdam states that these rules should be replaced by Community rules by 2004 at the latest. Since the Commission represents the EU vis-à-vis third countries on asylum issues, a mixed committee shall be set up between the Commission on the one hand and Norway/Iceland on the other, in which the latter two shall be granted the right to submit proposals. Disputes shall also be dealt with within the Joint Committee. Otherwise, the parties may terminate the agreement unconditionally. It's a solid majority that adheres to this agreement, only the centre party and SV opposes it. I assume that they will justify their position. With this, I recommend the majority position of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e711	As has been said, the Dublin Convention specifies the rules of procedure for which country is responsible for examining an asylum application in the area of the agreement. The Convention thus appears to be neutral in terms of refugee policy. The Convention says where and not how asylum matters are to be dealt with. The Convention does not impose any specific refugee policy on the contracting countries. However, at the SV's discretion, the connection to the Dublin Convention can in practice imply a narrowing in Norwegian refugee policy. On this basis SV chooses to say no to Norwegian association to the Dublin Convention. A look at the globe is enough to show that Norway will have an extensive opportunity to send asylum applications to countries where the asylum seeker has been on his way to Norway. We're as well-known as a promontory. SV believes that even more extensive use of the first-country rule will be depreciating our share of responsibility for refugees. SV sees this matter in the context of other efforts to build ever higher barriers around the richest European countries to refugees from poor countries. This is also one of the reasons why SV has opposed Norwegian association to the Schengen Agreement. The Dublin Convention and the EU's refugee policy have been criticised from several quarters. In Norway, both the NOAS and the Refugee Council have criticised the Dublin Convention. For SV, the overall objective of refugee policy is to ensure that the right to asylum is maintained and made more effective. The Dublin Convention will help to make it more difficult to apply for asylum in Norway and in Europe in general by making it more difficult to apply in another country if one is refused in one. In the opinion of the SV, connection to Schengen and to the Dublin Convention will mean a narrowing of Norwegian refugee policy. Dynamics could easily be created to bring the contracting countries into line with the practices of the most restrictive countries. There are obvious advantages in obtaining a principle that ensures that an applicant is treated as soon as possible and does not risk being sent as a package from country to country. But SV believes that the negative effects of the Dublin Convention will overshadow the positive ones. It is reported in St.prp. No 38 that the Dublin Convention has not functioned fully according to the conditions and that therefore one has started to set up the Eurodac fingerprint register. This register has itself problematic aspects in that it will involve a comprehensive registration of large population groups, and there is uncertainty as to whether asylum seekers will be deleted from the register if they are allowed to stay in a country. There are currently considerable differences between European countries in the practice of the Refugee Convention. Although we fear a tightening of refugee policy as a result of association with the Dublin Convention, we believe that this can to some extent be counteracted if the Government has the will to pursue an independent, humane refugee policy. Recognising that it appears to be a majority in favour of Norway joining the Dublin Convention, the SV and the Centre promote a proposal that the Stortinget should ask the Government ‘to lay down as a principle for the practicalisation of the Dublin Code that asylum applications should not be returned to countries with an asylum practice that is significantly more restrictive than that of Norway’. I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e737	The representative Rugtvedt has taken up the proposal she herself referred to. The President has discovered that he has made a small mistake, for the representative Jakobsen has asked for the floor in reply to the representative Nybakk. The President is now making it up to you by saying that Johan J. Jakobsen is speaking without speaking time limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e742	The agreement on the Norwegian link to the so-called Dublin acquis is a follow-up to the institutional agreement on Schengen cooperation, where Article 7 states that: «an appropriate mechanism for determining the country responsible for examining an asylum application submitted in a Member State of the European Union or in Iceland or Norway should be agreed on». A new agreement with the Schengen countries was necessary after the Schengen cooperation had become part of the EU. When Stortingen dealt with this matter in April 1999, the parties which today constitute the minority in the present position – the Central Party and the Socialist Left – joined forces against Norway ratifying the ‘new’ Schengen Agreement. When the Stockholm Council in 1997 dealt with the substantive content of the Schengen Agreement, the main objections to the agreement of a large minority in the Grand Duchy were the reduction of freedom of action in the field of asylum and refugee policy and the risk of reduced privacy and legal certainty. This agreement was approved as known by 75 votes to 50. The present agreement on the Norwegian link to the Dublin Convention and some other agreements is an institutional agreement. The agreement also links Norway and Iceland to the Eurodac Regulation on the EU’s Central Fingerprint Register. The majority say that a Member State is free to deal with an asylum application and that there will be Norwegian asylum policy that will apply when examining applications in Norway. However, as the purpose of the Schengen Agreement and the Dublin Convention is a more coordinated asylum policy in the Schengen area, it will be difficult for Norway to avoid that Norwegian policies in this area also need to adapt more closely to developments within the EU. Institutional solutions and procedures are also an important part of an overall asylum policy. Norway does not seem particularly likely to be able to join an international agreement in the field of asylum and refugees without having any implications for Norwegian policy. The Agreement also provides for the inclusion of a mechanism in the Agreement ‘which ensures consistency with the development of Community legislation’. In other words, there can be no doubt that the Schengen cooperation and the link to the Dublin acquis will be an adaptation to EU policies in another important area. What is the policy for Norway to be more closely linked to through the Schengen and Dublin acquis? And what is happening in the EU today in the field of asylum and refugee policy? According to an NTB report from Brussels, several EU countries are now pressing for a more stringent asylum policy in the EU. When EU Justice and Home Affairs Ministers met in Stockholm last Thursday, the UK Minister for the Interior, Jack Straw, invited their EU counterparts to establish a stronger common asylum policy in the EU area. He believes the time has run out of the Geneva Convention, and wants to change it. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Ruud Lubbers, came to the Stockholm meeting with a clear warning to EU countries not to weaken the Geneva Convention. ‘Europe must not be made a fortress that becomes impossible to provide’, said NTB, Ruud Lubbers. The UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, says that several EU countries are already breaking the rules of the Geneva Convention. ‘Europe is at best lukewarm, at worst hostile to refugees’, says UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mary Robinson. These are strong characteristics of the EU's asylum and refugee policy. There have also been critical assessments of the Schengen Agreement from Norwegian teams. In the hearing opinion of the Bishop of Oslo, it was mentioned, among other things, that:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘In the interests of human rights, and given the need for protection of refugees, the Schengen countries should be countries of first place rather than further substituting the European wall against the third world country and its citizens.’ I mention these statements to illustrate that there is an ongoing development in the EU and in the Schengen area that Norway should reserve itself against. The Council of the European Union has decided to set up a central fingerprint register, Eurodac. When the two personal files SIS and SIRENE were created, they came, among other things. critical observations on the position of privacy from the Data Protection Authority. The Proposition announces that the Government will present its own odelstation proposal in order to ensure the necessary legal basis for participation in Eurodac cooperation. In this connection, the government will, among other things, assess whether there will be a need to provide specific rules in the Foreign Affairs Act for the processing of personal data resulting from the link with Eurodac. What changes or additions to the foreign law that a person will consider, are not mentioned in the proposition. The minority therefore considers that before joining the Dublin Convention and the associated legislation, what legislative changes will be proposed and what consequences they will have for privacy should be awaited. When the Schengen Agreement was adopted, criticisms were raised against, among other things. the dispute settlement system established which requires Norway to withdraw from cooperation if it does not accept new legislation and if it does not find a solution acceptable to the EU. The corresponding dispute resolution mechanism is also provided for in the Dublin Code Agreement. The centre party believes this gives a contractual imbalance that goes in Norway’s disfavor. As regards the Schengen Agreement in general, I refer to Professor Erik Boe's conclusion: ‘The Schengen Agreement is the first example of an international agreement in which Norway is bound to the future development of rules, decisions and acts of authority without being fully involved in the decision-making process.’ On the basis of an overall assessment, the Central Party will oppose the conclusion by Norway of an agreement involving a connection to the Dublin Convention and related legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e790	I have some comments on SV and the Senterpartiet – as an alternative to the lines that did not work out. First, I'm not quite sure what «refugee policy neutral» is, but it sounds to me to be about as absurd as «value policy neutral». What is certain is that the Dublin Convention, or the institutional agreement that links us to the Dublin Convention, will not make it more difficult to obtain asylum in Norway or in the EU in general. It is up to the individual EU countries to respond to it, as they do not have common EU rules on asylum criteria. However, making a claim from this pulpit that the Dublin Convention will make asylum in Norway and in the EU in general difficult, I think it is a positive mistake. I also believe that it is going to be wrong when Johan J. Jakobsen says that we have a «reduced freedom of action». It's completely up to us. It will be quite up to the government that is always in place to practice and it will always be a great deal to decide what kind of freedom of action we should have on refugee and asylum seekers. So the Dublin Convention and its links give us the right to receive treatment in one country within the area. This means that an asylum application cannot be rejected within the area, and one may not re-approve of an application if it has been dealt with in another country. But it is entirely up to us, and of course it is not about the conditions for asylum, just about procedure. At the same time, I would like to challenge both the representative Rugtvedt and the representative Jakobsen whether the representatives believe that there is indeed a need for coordination in this area too in the context of greater and wider judicial cooperation. If there is something we now see in Europe and on the borders of Europe, then it is that human trafficking has actually become an important source of income for international mafia. We all remember with the cruel container that was standing at the port of South England last summer, where people died of suffocation, and where there was someone who had just kicked himself on human smuggling. And this is where the Eurodac regulations come in too, because it is that in those kinds of cases it can be very difficult to identify asylum seekers and get an overview of which country they actually come from, or how they have entered the area. In order to make this cooperation more effective under the Dublin Convention, EU countries have therefore planned to set up Eurodac to store and exchange fingerprints and some personal data for evidence purposes in asylum cases. Eurodac could lead to a significantly more flexible identification of foreign affairs and repatriation between European countries. The Norwegian Foreign Law has had rules since 1991 allowing for the storage and exchange of fingerprints in foreign affairs. Otherwise, I would like to stress that Eurodac is based on and deepens the EU Data Protection Directive, and according to it, it is limited which information can be registered. Such information may also not be supplied to third countries. This is, as far as I can see, in line with Norwegian practice, where the person to whom the information refers must consent to these being handed over to Eurodac.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e813	I'll make this card. I can refer mainly to the statements made by the rapporteur as covering the view of the Christian People's Party in this matter. However, I would like to point out that the Christian People's Party and the Left also voted against Norway's accession to the Schengen Agreement at its June 1997 reading. However, a majority decided to link Norway to Schengen cooperation, and this will soon be realised. That is why we need to assess today's case in this context, and we have come to the conclusion that once Norway is first integrated into the Schengen cooperation – and we can do nothing about that – then the Dublin acquis will be right to ensure that cooperation on asylum matters in the Schengen area is as effective as possible. After all, the Schengen Agreement, which Norway has acceded to, means the abolition of checks on persons at the borders between the Schengen States. These open borders make it easier for everyone to travel freely, even for those who want to seek asylum in several countries, or who disappear when they no longer have the right to stay. That is why I believe it is right that this cooperation, once it has been adopted for Norway, is supplemented by the Dublin Convention because it aims to prevent asylum seekers who can thus travel freely within the Schengen area from being referred back and forth between countries without having their application dealt with. I would also like to stress the point made by the rapporteur that the Dublin Convention does not regulate the content of a country – nor Norway’s – asylum policy. We will be free to deal with an asylum application even if we are not obliged to do so under the Dublin Convention. That is why the substance of Norwegian asylum policy is important. There, the Christian People's Party has chosen – let's say – a liberal attitude and will continue to do so. But we cannot see that the liberal position is served by a situation where asylum seekers may have to travel back and forth between countries within the Schengen area without having to try their case, and neither is it served by the right to have their case dealt with in a country by country within the Schengen area. We do not think that is rational or appropriate for a human asylum policy, and on that basis I would recommend voting for today's position, also on the basis of the fact that a majority in the United Kingdom – against the votes of the Christian People's Party – decided in due course to join Norway in the Schengen area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e824	The case rapporteur, Marit Nybakk, once again clarified in his second speech that Norwegian asylum and refugee policy should be almost unaffected by the agreement concluded. One can then ask: What is the purpose of the agreement? But one could also turn to the question and ask if the case rapporteur, Marit Nybakk, can refer to an international agreement where Norway, as a contracting party, is unaffected by the main purpose of the agreement that has been concluded. I think it's going to be hard. One should bear in mind that procedures and institutional conditions are, in fact, also an important part of the overall refugee and asylum policy, yes, I would say it more strongly: procedures and institutional relations linked to a legislative and an agreement are an important part of the overall policy in the area in question. I would therefore like to insist that when Norway enters into an international agreement, one cannot ignore the purpose of those who in their time found it necessary to conclude this agreement. And then there's a lot of other issues related to this case, to which we in the Center Party are critical. I have mentioned this with Eurodac and the fact that the Government is notifying changes to the Foreign Affairs Act without going any further into what this should be. A natural consequence of this is, in my opinion, that one should wait for what concrete changes to the Norwegian legislation the Government intends to propose, before a forwarder supports this agreement. I would therefore like to insist on what I said earlier, namely that Norwegian refugee and asylum policy must be expected to be affected by the agreement we are concluding. Looking at developments in the current EU and Schengen countries, there is strong criticism both from Secretary-General Kofi Annan and from the High Commissioners for Human Rights and Refugees. They are very critical of the developments that are now taking place within the EU. I specifically mentioned the fresh meeting between the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers in the EU countries concerned – they just had a meeting in Sweden – where it included: In the UK, it was almost called for a better coordination of this policy now than in the past, and then in a stronger direction. I noted that the case rapporteur in his closing statement used that very expression, that it makes sense to coordinate with other European countries on this policy. I believe that it was a confirmation that there is a coordinated refugee and asylum policy that really underpins the work of the agreement we are about to decide on today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e838	The majority of the Committee gives the impression that the Dublin Convention is neutral with regard to the content of refugee policy. I believe that there is no such neutrality in the Dublin Convention. And when the representative Nybakk thinks the concept of neutrality is so absurd in this context, I begin to wonder whether she also agrees that the content is not neutral in terms of refugee policy. So the question is whether there will be more or less asylum seekers with the Dublin Convention. I fear that fewer will have the opportunity to apply in Norway, and I fear that it is the purpose of the Dublin Convention, that we should have fewer applications in Norway. Is it going to be more difficult or easier to get asylum in Norway and Europe with the Dublin Convention? I think it becomes more difficult in that way that it almost becomes impossible to search in several countries. It is almost impossible to try out in another country if you have been rejected in one country. And when we know that there are so many differences between countries, I think we can all agree that it may be asylum seekers who deserve to apply in a new country if they have been refused in the first country they have tried. The question is whether there is a need for coordination. Yes, it is possible, but not the kind of coordination that is based on the fact that as much as possible should be excluded from Europe's borders. The rapporteur then showed that trafficking in human beings is one of the problems that a person will face with this type of coordination. Human smuggling, of course, is something that we have to fight. But it is a great cross of thought if not the wall we have around Europe, if not all the restrictions we have now imposed on Europe, is just promoting the kind of hazardous human smuggling that we have seen. With a more open Europe, a Europe that is easier to access for people from the poor part of the world, perhaps people would not take the chance of such grotesque smuggling methods that we have seen examples of, and where human traffickers also have great power.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e849	I found it necessary to say a few words after what I have heard in the debate here. First, to the question raised by Johan J. Jakobsen, namely whether Norwegian asylum policy is affected or not by what the Stortinget has been invited to adopt now, namely its accession to the Dublin Convention. As stated in the proposal and in the vote, this agreement does not regulate Norwegian asylum policy. I think that must be very clear. It also does not deprive us of the opportunity to deal with an application that has come to us, even if it should actually be heard in another country under the Dublin Convention. I also think that is very important to be told, so that you do not confuse this debate altogether. What this Convention is all about is improving the effectiveness of the work on these applications. From this point of view, it does not affect Norwegian asylum policy. We can conduct the policies we have, within the framework that is now in place. So I'm glad that there's a broad majority in favour of that. So to the question that Johan J. Jakobsen raised, about what changes need to be made to the Foreign Affairs Act. To that end, I would just like to say that, in order to make cooperation under the Dublin Convention more effective, the EU countries have planned to set up a computer system, Eurodac, to store and exchange fingerprints and some personal data for evidence in asylum matters. Eurodac could lead to a significantly more flexible identification of foreign affairs and repatriation between European countries. Since 1991, the Norwegian Foreign Law — it is important to say — has had rules allowing the storage and exchange of fingerprints in foreign affairs. Eurodac is based on and deepens the EU passenger directive, which is part of the EEA Agreement. The information that can be registered in Eurodac is limited and such information cannot be provided to third countries. This is in line with current Norwegian practice, where the person to whom the information refers must agree to it being provided to Eurodac. With regard to the legislative changes that are necessary, the Government is of the opinion that these are purely technical changes that are not of fundamental importance, and therefore we believe it is appropriate to proceed as we have proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e862	Just a short follow-up. Johan J. Jakobsen said that no international agreement is such that one party is unaffected by the purpose of the agreement. The aim of the agreement is not to change the content of asylum policy in any EU country, and I would like to reiterate that individual EU countries themselves decide on their asylum policy, i.e. the criteria for granting asylum. The purpose of the agreement is – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs emphasised – to streamline procedures and rules for the arrival of asylum seekers into the Schengen area after the borders are opened in this area when the agreement enters into force on 25 March this year. It goes without saying that there may also be a need to coordinate and cooperate on finding rules on how to deal with asylum seekers in one country in relation to another, i.e. can an EU country or a Schengen country continue to provide asylum even if another country has said no? Yes, says the Dublin Convention, and so is the right to have an asylum application processed. Once again, I would like to stress that it is always a big deal, the government that is always in place and the foreign agencies that decide the criteria for asylum in Norway. When the representative, Mr Rangtvedt, says that she believes that asylum is becoming more difficult in Norway, the representative, Mr Rangtvedt, must of course think so. But that doesn't mean it's consistent with the actual conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e872	Does Johan J. Jakobsen want the word for line or for post?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e875	For Article
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e882	Johan J. Jakobsen has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e885	I record that both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Marit Nybakk insist that this is only an institutional agreement, and that the agreement does not have an impact on the overall asylum and refugee policy. I would like to reiterate the fact that procedures in the handling of applications, including: the return mechanism in place here is most related to the overall refugee and asylum policy. However, since the Foreign Minister was as categorical as he was now, I would like to challenge him, because the agreement actually states – I refer to page 21 of the proposal – that the parties that have concluded this agreement ‘are convinced that it is necessary to include a mechanism in this agreement that ensures consistency with the development of Community legislation’. This clearly reminds me, in my opinion, of a development clause, which is also part of the agreement signed by the Norwegian dealers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e894	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1853]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e908	When we have an issue concerning the sanctions against Iraq, on the agenda, and have the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Chamber, it is tempting to take the opportunity to address a few issues related to Norwegian Iraq policy and the work on sanctions. The Foreign Minister has recently met his new American colleague. The impression we've been given through the media is that this was a meeting of discretionary political union. It is true that there was some disagreement with Iraq, but it does not seem that this disagreement was particularly great. In the past, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has stated that he will be in favour of changes in the sanctions regime against Iraq in order to arrive at sanctions that do not affect the civilian population as much as they do today. According to the daily newspaper of 10 February, Foreign Minister Jagland says: ‘– Not only must we maintain the sanctions, but we must also strengthen the sanctions as a weapon against Saddam Hussein’s attempt to build weapons of mass destruction. That is why we must now try to take away from him the strongest card he has, namely the humanitarian situation of the civilian population." That we should take Saddam Hussein away from the point where the sanctions are destroying the humanitarian situation in Iraq is a reasoning that I am following in full. But the only logical consequence of this would be to lift the sanctions that affect the civilian population. The government is giving such ambiguous signals about the sanctions, that it is necessary to ask again: is the government going in to lift the sanctions that affect the civilian population, and did the Minister of Foreign Affairs argue for this against Minister of Foreign Affairs Powell? And if the Government is still in the process of lifting some of the sanctions against Iraq, how will Norway work to build up this view and influence, among other things. The United States and the United Kingdom are also in favour of changes in sanctions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e924	When the meeting I had with Colin Powell seemed to be a pleasant union when it came to the sanctions against Iraq, it is related to Norway being part of the coalition that went in to drive Iraq out of Kuwait and stop the attack on the Kurds of Iraq. Moreover, from the very beginning, we have supported the sanctions, as the others in the Security Council have done – all five permanent members of the Security Council have supported the sanctions. At first, Iraq also supported the sanctions, so it was agreed that weapons inspectors should be released, and that weapons of mass destruction should be stopped. On this basis UN Resolution 1284 was adopted. I think the representative Ruggtvedt must keep a little order of the ‘sysakes’ and the story here. Now, if you're going to put a line all over this story, you're on the sidelines of everything that's been going on with all the permanent members of the Security Council, and I don't think that's anything like that. As far as the matter is concerned today, it is not about sanctions against Iraq, it is about how Norway is to lead the committee implementing the sanctions against Iraq. Norway has no opportunity in this committee to change the sanctions, we can only do that as a member of the Security Council. It is the Security Council that has established the sanctions regime. The Committee shall administer or implement the regime adopted by the Security Council. That's what we're now asking for funds to do, because we want to go into this. There are about a hundred applications that are dealt with every week, and there is a huge amount of work that needs to be done by the Norwegian side to take this seriously. In the first month, we've been carefully involved in every application. As I said to Colin Powell at the Friday meeting, we have seen that it is fully possible to do two things: both to strengthen the sanctions to prevent Saddam Hussein from building weapons of mass destruction, and at the same time to facilitate the humanitarian situation in Iraq, and we are in contact with the five permanent members of the Security Council on this very matter. What I can say here today is that what Norway has done is of great interest. But you don't have to get there to criticise the entire sanctioning regime, because it's necessary to maintain as long as Saddam Hussein doesn't comply with the UN's demands, which he initially agreed with, that inspectors from the UN should come into the country to make sure they don't produce weapons of mass destruction. This was the starting point for the sanctions, not for the civilian population to be hit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e931	I am fully aware of what we have to deal with today. I am also fully aware of the history of the sanctions against Iraq. Part of the story is that SV was in favour of these sanctions in its time, because we thought that strong measures were needed against a regime that did not respect international law and that is a oppressive regime. But we believe that it is now time to change the penal regime, and lift the sanctions that affect the civilian population. I think it is relevant in the matter, also the matter that we have specifically on the table today, to ask how Norway will work to change the sanctions regime, which I have previously understood the Government has agreed to. I perceive that the government sends out very ambiguous signals, and therefore asked for a clear answer as to whether Norway will or will not go in to lift any of the sanctions against Iraq. I find that it is very difficult to get a clear answer to that. So the question we want to get a very clear answer to is whether Norway is serious about developing smart sanctions: replacing today's sanctions regime with sanctions aimed at the political elite in Iraq, and lifting some of the sanctions that affect the civilian population. I find that it is not possible to get a clear answer to that, and I find it disappointing that the government does not stick to the signals it has given before, namely that it is to change the sanction regime and to lift some of the sanctions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e938	When the representative Rangtvedt thinks she's got a confusing answer, it's probably because she has a confused view of what the sanctions are. It is not a sanction regime that should initially affect the civilian population, it is aimed at ensuring that Saddam Hussein could not produce weapons of mass destruction, and on that basis sanctions should be continued. But sanctions can be practised in such a way that they do not affect the civilian population. We have seen that the sanctions have affected the civilian population, and in the month we have chaired the Sanctions Committee, we have seen that it is possible to administer this regime in such a way as to achieve both, both preventing Saddam Hussein from producing weapons of mass destruction and at the same time facilitating pressure on the civilian population. The discussion is not about whether to lift specific penalties, that is not how this is. If this is the starting point, it gets confusing, and then, of course, all the answers are also confusing. I would like to encourage Ruggvedt to get into what the penalty regime is, so that one can discuss this on that basis and not on a completely different basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e945	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1854]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e959	The Energy and Environment Committee has no written comments on the proposal that the Storting give its consent to the ratification of the Cartagena Protocol. I would like to make a few comments on the matter on behalf of the Committee, as case-speakers. The background is as follows: in 1992, the UN adopted the Convention on Biological Diversity. It is the first global agreement in its kind. The aim of the Convention is to ensure a fair global distribution of good produced on the basis of genetic resources. In the light of the Convention on Biological Diversity, a protocol on trade and use of live genetically modified organisms was negotiated. Norway signed the protocol in May 2000. An important motive was to protect developing countries’ interests through an international regulatory framework. In Section 26 of the Constitution it is called: «Contracts concerning matters of particular importance» require the consent of the Storting before they are made binding. The Ministry believes that the Cartagena Protocol is a matter of particular importance. There is an evaluation of the Energy and Environment Committee in full. The reason is open. We have an international agreement that states that genetically modified organisms should be handled in a specific way compared to other products. This agreement strengthens the rights of the importing country. For example, a country will be able to control all imports of genetically modified organisms. Exporters of such organisms must be documented consequences for the environment. Countries may, with the support of the Protocol, decide on import on the basis of the precautionary principle. It applies in cases where science is uncertain, where lack of knowledge makes it advisable to determine the extent of possible damage. We note here that 68 countries, through traditional international cooperation, have signed an agreement on international law that will strengthen the power of action of national governmental powers. This shows that traditional international cooperation is constantly asking for fruits, in this area where vital interests are at stake. The Cartagena Protocol guarantees environmental and consumer interests an important position in the International Works of Agreements. For my part, I would like to add: in the political universe, there are several dimensions – economic, social, ecological and democratic. Interests break each other, nationally, regionally and globally. The economic dimension has been on the offensive for a long time. Major companies and international financial capital dominate globalisation processes. The Cartagena Protocol can be seen in perspective as an attempt to balance the forces. It's a point of light, and the protocol is in the perspective you say. A joint committee is behind the proposal for a decision that Stortinget ratifys the protocol. It should ensure that Norway actively follows the protocol, and also benefits from the scope of action contained in the agreement, national and international.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e978	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. Voting will now be called because the Prime Minister's political statement will take place later in the day. [[Fotation, see page 1854]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e993	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map. To Case No 1 and 2 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e1041	During the debate, Mr Ruggtvedt put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The vote is taken first on the vote and then on the proposal of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e1051	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e1062	I voted incorrectly, I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e1069	Then the vote was taken by 97 votes to 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e1072	President, it's gotta be 14-- I'm not pushing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e1079	Accordingly, the opinion of the Committee was adopted by 97 votes to 14. It is then voted on the proposal of the Central Party and the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish as a principle of the practice of the Dublin Code that asylum applications should not be returned to countries with an asylum practice that is significantly more restrictive than that of Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13.ana.ud1590e1222	Case No. 9 will be discussed at the evening meeting.
