ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e69	Representative Rolf Terje Klungland will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e72	On behalf of Sylvia Brustad, Olav Aksensen and myself, I will make proposals for increased investment in energy recovery in industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e77	The representative of Åslaug Haga will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e80	On behalf of Eirin Faldet, May Hansen and myself, I will present proposals on structural changes and framework conditions to the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e85	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. According to the decision of the closing meeting recently held in Stortinget, case No. 2 on the agenda for the closed meeting, entered on the supplementary agenda for this meeting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 1 on agenda No 22 and the matter on the supplementary agenda, No. 23, be treated together. – No objections have been raised to this proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e112	Before the debate starts, the President will be able to make presentations by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence on the matter on the supplementary agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e115	Today, I want to explain the current situation in Afghanistan and the various Norwegian contributions to the fight against international terrorism. Furthermore, I would like to address the legal framework for dealing with the issue of possible strengthening contributions to operations in or by Afghanistan. The fight against international terrorism has a long-term perspective and requires a broad range of instruments. Norway is actively participating in this fight, both politically, economically, legally and militarily. In the global coalition against terrorism, the UN plays a crucial role. The starting point for our joint action is the Security Council decision, which is binding on all UN Member States. The Council has instructed all States to cooperate in the pursuit of those responsible for the terrorist attacks against the United States. In Resolution 1368, the Security Council stated that the terrorist attacks were a threat to international peace and security and underlined the US's right to self-defence under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. In Resolution 1373, the Council instructed all States to implement measures to halt the financing of international terrorist activities. Through our membership of the Security Council, Norway wants to strengthen the role of the United Nations in the fight against international terrorism. We have therefore actively supported the initiatives and decisions taken in the framework of the UN. Norway was, among other things, the first country which adopted the necessary legal basis for the implementation of Resolution 1373 and which reported in detail on the follow-up to the Anti-Terrorism Committee of the Security Council. For Norway as a NATO member, we are also obliged – by decision of 12 September – to assist the United States in the fight against international terrorism through the collective defence obligations under Article 5 of the Atlantic Charter. The Allies have given full political support and concrete contributions to this fight. Norway also has a clear self-interest in providing such assistance. The Article 5 guarantee has been the backbone of the defence of Norway for more than 50 years – and will continue to do so in the future. The guarantee must be effective and effective when the situation so requires. The fight against international terrorism will also be at the heart of the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting in Brussels tomorrow. Our joint efforts in the fight against international terrorism have also provided a new and positive basis for cooperation between the 19 allies and Russia. This will be of great importance to us, including as one of Russia's neighbouring countries. The international community is now facing significant tasks in Afghanistan: continuing military operations to the terrorists and their supporters have been reduced, facilitating a representative board, stabilising the security situation, stepping up humanitarian aid and contributing to the reconstruction of the country. In order to meet these tasks, a long-term and broad approach is needed, and to provide the necessary resources. The military operations in Afghanistan are directed at Osama bin Laden, his terrorist networks and supporters. It is my clear belief that the vast majority of Afghan people, too, distance themselves from these extremists, and want peace and development – not terror and oppression. The UN-led negotiations in Bonn between various Afghan groups promise the future of Afghanistan. There appears to be an agreement on a transitional administration to facilitate the operation of a representative board. Furthermore, the UN Security Council is requested to authorise a security force — initially in Kabul and surrounding areas. A large number of countries, including several of our closest allies, have already signaled the willingness to participate in such a force. Norway, too, should be in favour of the establishment of such a strength and be prepared to support it. Both humanitarian aid and longer-term aid are important in order to ensure the Afghan people's better future. International aid to Afghanistan has doubled in recent months. For our part, we have increased humanitarian aid to Afghanistan to over 300 million. kr for the current year. For the new year, we are taking over the chairmanship of the donor country group for Afghanistan, ASG. Here we will face major challenges in order to ensure optimal coordination of assistance to Afghanistan. As ASG Presidencies, we will work in particular to ensure that humanitarian aid is seen in the context of the longer-term relief work. Of course, if military aid is involved in humanitarian aid, we will be positive about this. The American-led military operations are crucial for the success of the fight against international terrorism. At the same time, cohesion in the broad international coalition is preserved – across political, cultural and religious divisions. This has been a vital prerequisite for the results so far achieved both in Afghanistan and in the fight against international terrorism more generally. The importance of the international community being united in this struggle cannot be stressed strongly enough. The Taliban regime continues to control important parts of Afghanistan. Despite military decline and extensive desertification, the Taliban is not neutralised as a power factor. At the same time, Osama bin Laden or the leadership of the al-Qaeda terrorist network have not yet been arrested or injured. Military action against terrorists and their supporters must therefore continue. In addition to the broad efforts we are now making, the US military authorities have announced that in the near future we will be able to obtain a request for direct military contributions to the ongoing military operations in Afghanistan. This enquiry must, of course, be seen in the light of our previous assurances that we will make it when we are asked to do so. In this regard, we must not forget that our own security can only be ensured by our being with our allies. This is not least the case in the fight against international terrorism. The government is therefore prepared to respond quickly and positively to an American request. This is important for Norway’s security, and is based on the broad agreement in the United Kingdom that Norway will abide by its NATO commitments – including military contributions to the fight against international terrorism. Several other countries, including several close allies, have also responded positively to similar American requests. A Norwegian contribution to the ongoing military operations will be added to any participation in a future security force. The Minister of Defence will explain in more detail in his statement what contribution it might be appropriate for Norway to make to the different types of operations. At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity to explore the legal framework for dealing with the issue of Norwegian strengths. According to the Basic Law, the King is both the commander of the armed forces and the head of the foreign government. The Government has thus been given authority to direct foreign and security policy. This is done through participation in bilateral and multilateral international cooperation, but also by deciding Norwegian participation in military operations abroad in the management of international crises. Of course, the powers exercised by the Government in this area require the Storting to make available the necessary funds. A specific restriction on participation in military operations abroad follows from the First paragraph of Section 25 of the Constitution. It states that armed forces must not be left in the service of foreign powers. The historical justification for this provision was to affect the tenancy of the soldiers, where the Government in return puts troops at the disposal of a foreign government. In our constitutional practice, this provision has not been considered to prevent participation in operations related to collective crisis management and security arrangements where this is also in Norway’s interest. Examples include our participation in the German Brigade, NATO's common command system, our efforts during the Gulf crisis and NATO operations against Yugoslavia during the Kosovo crisis. The military operations related to the situation in Afghanistan have a clear international legal base. They shall ensure important international common interests and values, including the restoration of international peace and security. The restriction in the first paragraph of Section 25 of the Basic Law on entrusting Norwegian forces in the service of foreign powers therefore does not apply to this situation. Under the second paragraph of Section 25 of the Constitution, consent from the Stortinget is required if it is appropriate to send abroad forces associated with the protection of land or other troops that are not considered as liners. The troops to which this provision applies depend on the army order at all times. The objective of this provision was, in particular during the Union period, to prevent the country from remaining completely defenceless because all military resources were used abroad. The deployment of land protection and similar forces will not be relevant in relation to operations related to Afghanistan. I find in this connection reason to stress that in this case it will be a matter of sending forces that participate with their own consent. It is therefore not a question of sending compulsory personnel. A decision by the Government on Norwegian participation in operations in or in Afghanistan under these conditions will therefore comply with the Basic Law § 25. However, it is safe practice for the Government to consult the extended Foreign Affairs Committee in advance on issues relating to strength contributions to military operations abroad. The purpose of today's grand meeting is to continue consultations with the bodies of Storting, which were launched in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee last Friday. The question of the financing of any strengthening aid has also been raised during the consultations. Of course, the government will address the matter with Stortinget as soon as the budgetary needs are clarified. Additional costs related to the preparation and possible deployment of Norwegian forces are assumed to be additionally financed. The Minister of Defence will discuss this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e174	A broad international coalition stands united in the fight against terrorism. The fight is demanding, and it will be long lasting. The United States plays a central role, not least because of its management of military operations. The International Coalition has expressed its support to the United States, but it is now high time to give real substance to the statements of support. Norway must also take part in the military burden of the fight against terrorism. The threat of terrorism is relevant to all countries, including us in Norway. Minor nations must demonstrate their ability and willingness to contribute actively in the fight against terrorism, and this includes making relevant military contributions. In addition to our self-interest in participating in the fight against terrorism, it is also crucial for Norway to demonstrate that we have the ability and the willingness to fulfil our collective defence obligations laid down in Article 5 of the Atlantic Pact and the expectations that lie in our long-term and long-term security cooperation with the United States. In the current situation, the Government considers it appropriate to offer Norwegian aid directly to the United States, as other coalition countries have already done. A number of countries, both NATO countries and non-NATO countries, have offered military forces to the ongoing operations, including European countries with which it is natural to compare us, such as Denmark. Norway is the only allied country that is represented at the U.S. headquarters in Florida and has not yet made any concrete possible contribution to strength. Enduring Freedom is the US-led campaign against international terrorism. In the short term, the main challenge for the operation will be to achieve the objectives of the ongoing military action in Afghanistan. The situation is developing rapidly, but the military action in Afghanistan may be long-term. Nor can it be excluded that the operation can be extended and targeted at targets in other countries. However, new policy treatment is reserved if Norwegian forces are to be used in operations other than ongoing operations in Afghanistan. Military support can also be provided in and around Afghanistan to ensure that humanitarian aid is provided to the population. NATO is investigating possible options to support humanitarian aid to Afghanistan in order to request such support from the United Nations. The UN signals are that NATO assistance is not relevant in the current situation, but it cannot be excluded if the situation worsens. Norway has also, together with a number of other countries, received a request directly from the United States if possible for military support for the UN humanitarian work. The United States considers that the coalition can support humanitarian efforts with transport capacities in the first place. The investigations in NATO and the United States are likely to be coordinated over time. The situation in Afghanistan is unstable and it may be necessary to establish an international security force to ensure the necessary stability during a transitional period. The composition, size and mandate of such a force has not been established and it is still uncertain whether such a force will actually be deployed. In principle, however, agreement on such strength was reached during the negotiations in Bonn this week. Although many clarifications remain, I already want to obtain support to provide Norwegian forces. The situation in Afghanistan is unclear and in rapid development and it may be necessary to deploy a security force very quickly when the necessary clarifications may be in place. As part of the international coalition, we have a responsibility to contribute to peaceful and democratic development in Afghanistan. A security force can be an important contribution to ensuring the political stabilisation process, humanitarian aid and the longer-term reconstruction of the country. Auxiliaries organisations have provided for such a strength. However, the detailed assumptions for any Norwegian participation in such an operation will be carefully assessed before deployment. In particular, assessments of the safety of personnel are concerned. The government's list of strength offers contains limited but relevant capacities that are assumed to be in demand and that we can actually provide on short notice if the offer is accepted and the circumstances would otherwise facilitate the participation. It is a prerequisite for participation that the Norwegian contributions are part of an acceptable command, control and logistics arrangement. For participation in the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation, it will be most topical for Norwegian forces to be placed under the command of the U.S. Central Command in Florida. Attention will be given to the safety of Norwegian personnel. For all contributions, a maximum outsourcing of six months is initially assumed. Strengthening contributions will not have a critical impact on domestic preparedness and staff will be recruited on a voluntary basis. The following military contributions should, in the view of the Government, be offered for operation «Enduring Freedom»: up to six F-16 fighter aircraft, one aircraft for electronic warfare, a limited number of specialists competent in winter operations, a smaller number of staff officers, up to four Bell helicopters, a smaller transport control unit and a smaller number of explosives. The total number of staff could only be determined once we know which support functions Norwegian strength contributions are provided by coalition partners. The number of ground forces is likely to be no more than one hundred soldiers. Furthermore, it is proposed that this list can also be used as a starting point for possible Norwegian contributions to any security force in Afghanistan, in addition to the fact that a watch and security company should be identified as a possible contribution to such a security force. However, the provision of concrete offers of Norwegian forces to a possible security force is too early in the current situation. For humanitarian support operations in and around Afghanistan, provision should be made: one-two transport aircraft — C-130 Hercules — a smaller number of winter training advisers, a smaller transport control unit, a smaller engineering unit, a smaller number of explosive cleaners and a handful of experts with competence in civil-military cooperation, mine clearance and droplets. We have recently received signals from the US military authorities that they want to use a number of Norwegian off-road personnel vehicles, and the Government intends to meet such a wish. Of course, we may be asked to participate in the further dialogue with other capacities, including material support. The government is therefore asking for support to be able to provide other limited military capabilities that are deemed to be within the envelope I have outlined today. It is very unlikely that all the above strength contributions will be requested. However, it is important that the components are prepared for deployment, so that we can quickly contribute to what is actually being requested. The costs will, of course, depend on which units are actually deployed. The provisional estimate of costs is associated with uncertainty. The calculations have been carried out on the condition that the aeroplane strength can deploy to airbases where a certain infrastructure, support organisation and necessary securing is established. The deployment of six fighter aircraft will be the most expensive contribution, estimated at 360 million. kr. Of this amount, 100 million is. SEK to operational expenditure and SEK 210 million. NOK at personnel costs. In addition, it's going to be 50 million. kr to away work for flight maintenance to power generation nationally. The air defence has temporarily established an air-to-ground capacity which makes it unnecessary to carry out the material project related to this capacity. The costs associated with such a service have therefore not been calculated into the 360 million. kr. In addition, costs may also be incurred for the repurchasing of spent weapons. Participation in one aircraft for electronic warfare is intended for approx. Thirty million. kr. Participation with four helicopters is intended for approx. 60 million. kr. For advisers, transport control officers, staff officers, explosive cleaners and the like The costs are estimated at approx. One million. kr per. person. The deployment of one transport aeroplane is estimated at a total cost of 80 million. kr. That's 50 million. kr estimated operating costs and 30 mill. kr investment in material. There will also be costs associated with making some material investments. Some communication and material projects are concerned, approximately 65 million. kr, investment in certain operational capabilities for EK aeroplanes, approx. Ten million. kr, and the purchase of drop equipment, etc. to C-130 transport aircraft, approx. Five million. kr, a total of approx. Eighty million. kr. The cost of meeting a request to provide a number of off-road personnel vehicles will, of course, depend on the number of persons requested. This has not been clarified, but it cannot be excluded that we can be asked to set a significant number. The cost also depends on the type of vehicle being requested and the cost can be roughly estimated. 1.5-2 million. kr per. Paragraph The Government aims at the prompt implementation of preparations, including training for deployment of units offered. Those material acquisitions must also be made as soon as possible so that the defence is able to make a contribution at short notice. As far as funding is concerned, the Government will, of course, deal with the Storting as soon as the budgetary needs are clarified. Additional costs related to the preparation and possible deployment of Norwegian forces are assumed to be additionally financed. The government aims to promote a proposition to the Storting about this in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e218	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes, and from other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication by up to three lines with replies from main speakers from each party group, and five lines with replies from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e225	Let me first say on behalf of the Workers' Party that we support the Government's view that the issue of offering these forces and materials is the government's prerogative, but that it is natural to consult the bodies of the Storting, and that this debate is part of it. It is not just that it is unnecessary to take a decision in this case. We believe that if we were to do so, it would make the responsibility between accumulation and government unclear. In accordance with the second paragraph of Section 25 of the Basic Law, consent is required if it is appropriate to send forces associated with the protection of the land and other troops which cannot be considered as liners. What needs to be addressed in the Storting is the appropriations for these operations. However, the Labour Party will not make support for the fight against international terrorism dependent on how this is to be financed. We await here a proposal from the Government. I think it is obvious that the Storting should find a solution to those questions and not interfere with the issue of whether Norway should support the fight against international terrorism. I am also saying this because Norway needs to follow in a clear and clear way the decisions we have taken in NATO under Article 5 and in the UN Security Council under Article 51. SV has intervened across both of these international organisations. I would like to ask whether SV has thought through what would be the consequences if SV's view were also to be Norway's official policy. The Progress Party has also, as I have seen, raised doubts about its support, depending on how the operations are to be financed. On this basis, I am therefore pleased that there is a majority, as expressed in the consultations of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, which supports the Government’s view on Norwegian participation, and therefore ensures clarity of Norway’s position on this issue. It's very important to all of us. To those who have claimed that it was not right to use military instruments in Afghanistan, I would like to say the following: Then the Taliban continued to hold hold hold in Afghanistan. Then we had no international conference in Bonn under UN leadership to establish a broad coalition government in the country, which now seems to have led. What is happening confirms that in such cases a broad UN strategy is needed, where the use of power, humanitarian aid, civil rule building and long-term assistance must go hand in hand. And I would like to stress: this was one of the three points that Norway presented as its main priorities for the work of the UN Security Council, as I explained here in the Chamber before that we took the place of the Security Council. That is why it is so important for Norway to follow up on this very specific action, as we now have to do in Afghanistan. We have also seen similar cases in the past, where it has been necessary to use power to pave the way for the building of civil rule and to pave the way for economic development, among other things. at the latest in Sierra Leone. It's not enough with the use of military power, but it's necessary to put the other sides in place. I believe that what we are now seeing in Afghanistan is proof that this broad approach by the UN Security Council is the right approach, not only in this conflict, but in other conflicts. I also want to say that it is now necessary to underline the difference between the situation to be dealt with in Afghanistan and the situation we have in the Middle East. In Afghanistan, we were – and still are – facing a regime that was not really a regime that controlled the country, but it was a kind of bandit regime that combined religious fanaticism with drug smuggling, international crime and support for international terrorism. In the Middle East, we are faced with two parties, the Israeli Government and the Palestinian authorities, who have recognized each other, signed it in the Oslo Agreement, and also said that they should resolve the conflict by peaceful means, that is. (Parliament adopted the resolution) This is a completely different situation that we're going to deal with. That does not mean that in any way we have to be in doubt that we should also fight terrorism here. But it's clear that we're facing another situation, which has to meet in a different way. I have no faith in the policy that is now being pursued – and it has proved not to work – namely to demand complete silence on the ground before entering into the confidence-building measures, to build confidence and to engage in negotiations. Several hundred Israelis have been killed, murdered, during the period of conduct of this policy. It is therefore appropriate to draw up the line proposed by the International Mitchell Committee, namely that a truce should be established, preferably with the help of the Americans. I think it is necessary for them to continue to cooperate in security between the two parties, but for them to start immediately with the confidence-building measures on both sides and to set a plan for the implementation of negotiations. Only then will the Palestinian people see that it is possible to go further on the road that was pulled up in Oslo, gain independence, gain freedom. And it is only when the Palestinians are given the opportunity of freedom that Israel can also have security. Israel's security depends on the Palestinians getting their independent state. I would also like to make a strong point: the Palestinians cannot have freedom if they do not guarantee Israel's security. These two things are connected. I think that the international community now needs to put pressure on the parties to engage in a dialogue that leads to these goals, rather than now, more and more use of violence. The budgetary position of the Foreign Affairs Committee is based on the framework adopted by the Stortinget on 28 November this year. The total amount of expenditure has been exceeded by NOK 16 billion. It is the framework of the government parties we are dealing with here, and it is only for the Workers' Party to note that there was no majority in favour of an increase in the budget, as we proposed. We therefore joined the reduced framework. In other words, the government has largely followed up the priorities of the Labour Party Government. The adjustments proposed by the Government have largely been agreed by the Committee. It shows the broad consensus on important parts of Norwegian foreign policy. Only the Progress Party has a budget line that deviates dramatically from the rest of the bulk of the population. It is particularly gratifying to see that the Government is continuing its efforts to assist the Workers' Party. It maintains the same ODA-approved assistance framework as provided by the Stoltenberg Government. This involves an increase of DKK 13.5 billion, an increase of DKK 1.2 billion from 2001. There is a broad consensus on the objective, that aid should reach 1 pst. of GNI. When, in the additional proposition of the Government, a GNI share higher than that of the Stoltenberg government is operated, it is because the GNI estimate has been adjusted so that the percentage also increases. The fact that even the Right now, after they have come into government, joins the rest of the bulk of the population in the aid is very positive. This means that there is now an even wider majority of the main lines of Norwegian development policy here in the United Kingdom. Only the Progress Party will stand on the side bar. The government of Stoltenberg also provided more effective and targeted Norwegian assistance. In order to help even more people out of poverty, a thematic effort was proposed and bilateral assistance concentrated on a few main co-operation countries and several other co-operation countries. As regards the co-operation countries, the Committee calls for the status of some of them to be assessed in the 2003 budget. The Committee asks the Government to carry out an assessment in the context of development policy presentation to spring. The international situation after 11 September may require more than ever that refugee and peacekeeping work be given priority. A unanimous committee considers it important to increase the allocation of emergency aid, humanitarian aid and human rights both in relation to natural disasters and situations of conflict. The Committee refers in particular to the situation in Afghanistan and the international fight against terrorism, and it is gratifying that there is also broad consensus on this point. In the end, I just want to point out that I think it is unfortunate that the allocation of foreign profiling for Norway is beginning to fall again. It went up the previous two years, but now you start cutting down again. I think it's a little forward-looking policy on the part of the Government, and if it goes through in the Storting, the exact same characteristic is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e259	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e262	Let me first say that it is with a certain amazement and wonder that I note that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee now from the Parliamentary Chair refers from the meeting of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. In addition, the record was incorrect. Of course, the Progress Party has not imposed any conditions to give its support to Norway's participation in the international fight against terrorism. But we have asked some questions, which I would like to ask here too, as regards the other parties' views on funding. We are in the middle of a budgetary procedure in Stortinget. If all of our offers are accepted and this lasts a whole year, it will be an estimated NOK 2 billion. Then it is interesting to know whether the Workers' Party will suddenly have found two billion dollars for this purpose, or whether it intends to increase taxes, or whether to reduce expenditure on chapters in other departments' budgets, or whether to take it within the framework of the defence budget. I would like an answer to that question. So in the case of the Constitution. I think I'm going to read Section 25 of the Constitution, because there are many people who may not have taken the trouble to do it: ‘The king has the highest command of the Kingdom’s Land and Sea Power. It must not be increased or reduced without the consent of Storhing. It must not be left in the service of the foreign Powers, nor any foreign troops' warriors, except for the help of enemy assaults, must be involved in the Kingdom without the consent of the Great Things.The Land Guard and the other troops, who could not be counted to Line troops, shall never be used outside the boundaries of the Kingdom, without the consent of the Great Things." ‘Consent of the great thing’ is mentioned three times. Wouldn't it make sense then to take a formal decision in the Storting that gives consent from the Storing, when it's actually about crews who can cope with life in armed situations, even though there are 'voluntary' crews within the military? You can also sometimes ask questions about what is really ‘voluntary’. Why does the Workers' Party not want the formal consent of the Storting to this type of important matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e276	I have not referred from any meeting of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee; I have only dealt with the public debate. There is a reason why this case has become too open-ended – it has to be said what is the reason for it. Now Carl I. Hagen says exactly what is the point of view of the Progress Party, namely – at least that's how I interpret it – that it depends on how we're going to finance these appropriations. That's what the Workers' Party says it shouldn't be. We must stand up in the international fight against terrorism. Then we're going to deal with how this is to be financed at the time the government makes a proposal about it. So I can't say anything more about it right now. What is important now is that it becomes clear that there is a will on the part of the Storting to support the Government. That's the way it's all right to have such a debate. With regard to the issue of decisions in the Great Britain, we believe that it would break the policy we have had now, which we had during the Gulf War, and which we had during the Kosovo crisis. From a formal point of view, we have taken into account both now and during the Kosovo crisis that the provision on the ‘Land Protection’ in the second paragraph of Section 25 of the Constitution must also be interpreted antithetically in such a way that the issue of other troops does not need the consent of the Storting. That's what's at stake here, and that's what we built on. If you were to go away from it, we think that you're going to confuse the clear relationship you're having and should have between magnification and government on this very important question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e285	It is true, as the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs says, that there have been different practices in dealing with these kinds of cases in the Grand Duchy during the 1990s and also in the past. I think, however, that what the Basic Law really says, if you read words for words, you're going to assume the Consensus of Great Things. But at least it has to be so that each majority addresses the way in which such serious issues are actually to be dealt with. Because Stortinget sits and treats a lot of things. We will decide at least in detail how a fee should be designed. You can't say there's big and existential questions. However, these are decisions that, in their ultimate consequence, could put the lives of Norwegian citizens at risk in a sharp military action far beyond the borders of Norway. Therefore, I wonder whether the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee does not believe that this is such a big, important and comprehensive case that the Stortinget should make a formal decision, especially in relation to what the Stortinget believes we should adopt in the least detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e290	The answer to that is no. We believe that Stortinget should not make a decision in this matter. When you begin to compare with making decisions about the smallest fee, it tells me how much you weigh. It is precisely mentioned in the Basic Law that the Government has a special responsibility in terms of foreign and security policy. Here there is a prerogative for the Government that the Storting should not break into in an unthinkable way. What we are talking about here is not that you should use the «Land Protection» mentioned in the second paragraph of the Basic Law. It's about other troops and other forces, and it's been safe practice that in that case the government has a prerogative, that is. that we are not going to make a decision in Stortinget. Moreover, the Stortinget has discussed this matter several times, i.e. the issue of Norway’s position in the Afghanistan war. But what we are now discussing is the use of crews and materials in the current situation, and there is the Constitution very clear on who is responsible in the various cases. I think it is quite important to keep things in order and not confuse them with what decisions we make on tax matters. Because here the Constitution is actually very clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e296	Let me first say that that is enough, as I said, that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee referred from the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee and not from any media debate. He said that the Progress Party, as he interpreted us, had expressed things like that. So he's now misinterpreted us twice. We have not set any conditions – one more time, President: we have not set any conditions – to give our full support to participation. Maybe Jagland, after I've said it so many times to him, now it sees. So Jagland says that the Constitution is «very ready». Then I would like to be allowed to ask the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee to read out the paragraph of the Constitution that is very clear on the Government's prerogatives to do what he thinks it can do. Because I haven't seen any very clear paragraphs. Paragraph 25 states three places on a few lines that «The Consensus of the Great Things» is necessary, but the Labour Party leader reads the Constitution so that no formal consent of the Storting is necessary, despite the fact that there are three places in Section 25. So what the second paragraph of Jagland then refers to, I would like him to read out, so that the Storting can get involved in the knowledge he has of a clear constitutional provision in this area. As far as funding is concerned, I note that the head of the Workers' Party will not inform the Storting how the Workers' Party intends to pay the bill, and that after a budget debate in which it is actually said that the rule of action is clear and prevents us from using a single million more than what is within the agreed framework of next year. Is it, then, that you want to increase taxes and taxes, or will it go beyond other purposes? I also think that the leader of the Workers' Party could inform the Stortinget about that. When I see that, sir. Jagland has no copy of the Constitution, I leave the copy I brought up here, so he can read from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e307	The President believes that the representatives should rely on taking the documents they bring up to the Chair, back again. The President is asking that the representative Carl I. Hagen remember it for another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e310	I think I'll be fine without it. I spoke about what the Basic Law refers to as the Government's prerogatives in foreign and security policy, to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs has referred in his speech, so it is not necessary to say it again from the Parliament's pulpit. That's the one. The second is: I talked about the Basic Law Section 25, which deals with the use of troops abroad, and I added the practice that is established through, among other things. The Gulf War and Kosovo. We've had a lot of other operations as well. If you were to take this literally, it is clear that we could not have participated in any international operations at all, but it has been clarified through practice and interpretation that it cannot be the case that troops cannot be made available under NATO command and under UN command. We've done that many times, and that's also what will happen in this case. And then we don't talk about the Land Guard. We're talking about other types of forces, which have also been clarified through practice, are the government's prerogatives. We took that into account when it comes to the troops that we sent to Kosovo, and we also laid it down when it comes to the Gulf War, so I'm talking about the Constitution and the practices that are established. But of course, every big thing has an opportunity to change this, so that's not what I'm discussing. I am discussing whether it is wise to do so, and there the Labour Party agrees with the Government that it is not wise to do so, because we then establish a new practice that I do not think we should have in this country, because we must have clarity about who is responsible for what in foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e315	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e318	Let me, on behalf of the Right, begin by fully agreeing with the Government's decision to offer Norwegian military contributions to Operation Enduring Freedom, and also support the Government's assessment of Norwegian participation in an international security force in Afghanistan. It is, of course, in the opinion of the Court of Justice that Norway stands up and takes its share of the responsibility in the international fight against terrorism, and that also means that we are taking our share of the military burden. All the time Norway has equipment, crews and expertise relevant to the struggles that are taking place, it is important that we demonstrate our solidarity and our willingness to contribute. In our opinion, the government has made it thoroughly clear that the decision to offer military contributions does not conflict with the Constitutional Law, and we note that both the old and the new governments agree with the interpretations of the Constitution. Previous practices have also established this, as has been pointed out in the past, in connection with Norwegian contributions to the Gulf crisis and the Kosovo crisis. We also note that, to the extent that they will be applied, the strength contributions are subject to additional funding. Foreign policy is currently high on the agenda. When that happens, it's usually because the level of conflict in the world has increased, and it's not always happy that foreign policy comes into focus. But when everyone's eyes are focused on conditions beyond the borders of the country, the importance of a thoughtful and consistent foreign policy is made clear. It will be easier to understand why the Government must have a broad range of instruments at its disposal in its exercise of foreign policy, and that is what we are today to contribute to by adopting the external budget for 2002. The Government's proposals for the external budget and the setting up of the Committee also underline a broad consensus in the Grand Duchy on the broad lines of foreign policy, and it must be seen as a strength for a small country to bring together a broad majority of key foreign policy and development policy objectives. Terrorism against the United States on 11 September changed the world. It's become a worn-out expression, but it's just as true. They changed the threat picture of more than the analysts, researchers and intelligence people who have long talked about the terrorist threat. The world community has joined forces against terrorism and in the fight against terrorist cells and networks in a way that was thought possible in the days following the terrorist attacks. The width of the coalition, the decision of the Security Council on a number of concrete measures to combat international terrorism, Brahimis and the efforts of the Afghan parties to put in place a broadly based political solution and the follow-up by the world community to humanitarian action provide some sort of hope. It has also given Norway new challenges. The four Afghan groups controlling most of Afghanistan now appear to agree on an agreement for an Afghan transitional government. However, I have some understanding of the representative of the Afghanistan Committee in Peshawar, Odd Bratlie, who said to the evening post last night in connection with the agreement: ‘I do not want to rejoice until I see it working in Afghanistan’. There is still considerable uncertainty as to whether the agreement will be solid enough to address the ethnic contradictions in Afghanistan. The role of Norway as leader of the Afghanistan Support Group donor group is therefore very important. The job will be to support the political process of humanitarian aid and rehabilitation in a good way. The Committee unanimously underlined in its opinion that Norway must be prepared to consider increased support for reconstruction work in Afghanistan and for border regions in the region. We have seen that the fight against international terrorism has broken down contradictions between countries that were once far apart, both politically and culturally. Other borders between foreign and domestic policies have also been broken down, between traditional foreign and security policy instruments on the one hand, and efforts to create peace, growth and development on the other — in other words, what we call the 02 and 03 areas in the budget. We cannot talk about binding military and security cooperation to combat terrorism without at the same time talking about a responsibility for humanitarian aid and aid for reconstruction and long-term political development in Afghanistan and in the region. I would therefore like to stress that the Government is just making sure that Norway takes a broad responsibility both in the military fight against international terrorism, in the pursuit of a political solution and in the humanitarian work in the short and long term. One of the innovations of this budget, namely the chapter on transitional assistance, I think will be a very important instrument in the future. In particular, in view of the situation in Afghanistan, the government has just increased this budget chapter by 45 million. kr in relation to the submission of the budget of the Labour Party Government. The negative developments in the Middle East over the last few days offer that the fight against international terrorism may face more difficult times. The government has appealed to both parties to the conflict to try to prevent the spiral of violence from being further brought out of control. On the one hand, the government has appealed to Arafat that he must do more to combat the terrorist organisation and their actions. On the other hand, Norway has appealed for detention in respect of Israel’s retributions. Unfortunately, the prospect of the parties returning to the negotiating table is very dark. I would therefore just like to stress the importance of Norway continuing its Middle East exposure. There is no doubt that the Americans are the most important actors in bringing the parties back into dialogue if possible, but this is not the time to implement changes in our Middle East exposure or in our contributions. If we were to withdraw from our commitments in the Middle East, this could, in the worst case, help further destabilize the situation. In the election campaign it was for once a debate on Norwegian aid policy. The right has been and is still more concerned with the results we achieve with assistance than with the percentage points of GNI assistance. But to be honest, it seems that other parties have moved in our direction, away from a one-sided focus on the level of funding and towards greater focus on the device of the aid effort. The main objective must be to provide assistance so that it contributes on a lasting basis to the elimination of the greatest possible number of people from poverty. Aid must also be combined with a broader development policy that highlights the obstacles faced by developing countries in their quest for increased economic growth and economic development. I would like to stress that we stand firm on the Sem statement, and that we live well with the goal of bringing the assistance up to 1 pst. of GNI. It may be a curious, but just as fully a fact that the first time assistance in Norway was on 1 pst. of GNI, was in 1982. Then lay the right on about 30 pst. on polls and Willoch was prime minister. It shows that the Right has always had a pragmatic relationship with the question of the level of appropriations. We have set quality and goal achievement in the high seat. It can sometimes seem like other parties have had a pragmatic relationship with this with the 1 pst goal. The Labour Party Government and the Centre Government both had such an objective in the previous period, while no budget was provided during the previous period that kept this programmed objective, nor were any proposals made by them in opposition. After this short-sightedness of the election campaign, I would just like to stress that we believe that development policy is moving in the right direction, as we also stated in the debate on the current year's budget. There is now broad agreement on a greater geographical concentration in bilateral development cooperation. We have also received a concentration and better coordination of multilateral aid work. The right is also pleased that the bilateral assistance is now so early to support the country’s own strategies for combating poverty. I feel convinced that the conversions of the aid policy we are now making provide the basis for continued broad support in the Norwegian people to continue a high level of assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e355	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e358	Let me first regret that my friendly offer to the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee was misunderstood when it came to being able to refer to the clear constitution. But then to Right's Chief Spokeswoman, who also maintains the interpretation of Basic Law § 25. I fully respect that. There are often different interpretations of a constitution. I would like, among other things: refer to Professor Per Stavang, who writes in his recently published book on the relationship between big business and government on page 17: ‘And finally, the consent of the Storting to certain administrative measures. For hours this followed directly by the Constitution, [[see Sections 25 and 26]] So Professor Stavang quotes exactly this paragraph, where it says three places that Storting's consent is necessary. I accept that some have interpreted this provision to mean that you do not actually need consent, that is, the exact opposite of what is explicitly stated there. We have that interpretation of we think it makes sense if the Storting agrees that in very, very big and important matters it would be beneficial to get consent from the Storting, not only through contributions, but also through a voting and a proxy decision. In other areas of minor importance, it is common. So a question also to the Right speaking person about funding. Will it be possible for the bill to be financed through increased taxes and taxes? It's a relatively large amount. Could there be a theoretical possibility that this will be achieved by increasing taxes and charges or reducing the needs of the defence budget or the expenditure of other departments and chapters? When you take on something that could possibly amount to $2 billion, we think that, in the right government party too, you should have thought about it in these times when the Storting is fighting otherwise, then the bust is spending 10 million. NOK 15 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e374	If the issue of Norwegian military contribution to the fight against international terrorism were to be addressed by the Storting, it would be a change of previous practice and would be based on a different interpretation of the Constitutional Law from that of the Storing. As far as I have been able to bring it about, it will also mean a change in the attitude of the Progress Party since the Kosovo crisis, when Norwegian contributions were treated in the same way as we are now proposing. This means that the Government has a responsibility and a prerogative in this area in these matters, and that the enlarged Foreign Committee is used as a consultative body. When it comes to the question of funding, I don't want to go into that issue at the moment. We have been informed that, as far as they apply, the strength contributions are assumed to be supplementaryly funded. We're going to be presented with a separate landfill proposal on that issue, and the right will come back to it when dealing with that proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e381	I am pleased that one from several quarters says explicitly that one places great emphasis on the legal frameworks around our foreign policy in Central Asia. Former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch believes when it comes to the Middle East, that Israel is violating international law. I'll quote Willoch: ‘The annexation of an occupied area is to be regarded as a war crime.’ I would like to ask the representative Christiansen if she shares the views of her group in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e397	I have also registered my party trap Kåre Willoch's views in the Middle East conflict and on Israel's responsibilities and actions. I greatly appreciate his commitment and participation in that debate. I believe that the most important thing now is to focus on how to bring the parties together at all. There is no doubt that if we are to find solutions to the more fundamental problems that the representative Jacobsen and, to the extent that Willoch have been concerned about, we must first of all concentrate on what is needed to bring the parties together, and not go too far into a debate about who is responsible for the situation as it is right now. In this context, the Norwegian government has pointed to the Mitchell report and that it points a way out of the current situation and back to the peace trail. The report says that Arafat has to provide 100 percent to combat acts of terrorism by Palestinian militant groups. It also says that the Israelis must put an end to the Jewish new buildings. This balance sheet I believe the Government has taken care of in its appeals to both parties to do what they can to prevent a further deterioration of the violence situation. What the government says, is a criticism that Arafat has not done enough in the past to put the guilty ones in charge of terrorist acts. This, in my view, also implies a criticism that the Israelis have allowed the Israeli settlements to expand.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e404	Let me confirm Julie Christiansen's point. Yes, the Progress Party has changed slightly since Kosovo's involvement in this type of issue. We have felt that the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is a consultative body, might be used a little too much. We actually think that some important things belong in the Biggest and in the public and in the open. The parliaments of other countries have known me for discussing their relations with Afghanistan and the fight against terrorism. We then think it is natural for the Storting to also discuss such questions. When, in many other contexts, we have big debates on small things, we must occasionally be able to take up a debate on big and important things. It's strange that it's impossible during the budgetary procedure to say that you have to add $10 million for a good purpose. NOK 15 million. NOK 20 million. kr without hearing almost a shelf: how should it be covered? In violation of normal practice, Stortinget de facto confirms that something can now be done that can lead to – I also expect it to be smaller, but it can lead to – a cost of NOK 2 billion. So it seems that more people think it's rude that some of us allow us to ask the question, how is this to be financed? That's what you're going to get back to, you're going to say. Imagine if you started doing that with suggestions and other things about the health care system, that we are going to launch a very large measure that could amount to billions of dollars, and say: Payment – no, we will return to that. Why is it that the Right has not thought through whether this could actually mean a significant increase in taxes and taxes, or that it goes beyond other purposes of the budget that are now being adopted? Why can't the Right Today tell the Norwegian people how the Right intends to finance it? We want to do that by reducing the government budget surplus.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e414	First, let me just record that the Progress Party maintains that they have developed a different view of how the enlarged Foreign Committee is used, and also that they disagree with the majority of the Storting on how to deal with the issue of any Norwegian strength contribution and the Government's decisions to offer it. So the representative Hagen says that we think he is rude when he demands an answer on how to finance these strengths. Of course, we do not think so. We will come back to that question, and we will then discuss how these strength contributions will be financed if it becomes time for Norwegian strength contributions to be used. But I can only wonder how the Americans have to understand the demands of the Progress Party that the Stortinget should decide in advance, before we are even going to assess whether we want to make such an offer, how it should be financed. I believe that it removes the focus from what is important, namely that we should stand unitedly in an international fight against terrorism, also with military aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e421	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e424	I had originally planned to hold a more traditional budget line today, but I choose instead to dedicate the majority of my contribution to the cruel situation we are now experiencing in the Middle East. This is a conflict which, of course, has its points of contact with the budget, in particular the aid budget, and I shall be allowed to come back to that. With regard to the issue of Norwegian military involvement in Afghanistan, the support of the Progress Party to this effect has already been explicitly clarified by this pulpit today, and others from the Progress Party will comment further later in the debate. The Progress Party has programmed support for the State of Israel. It has not been said that we are unable to see that Israel too can make mistakes – for all things, no conflict is black and white, and it is being trampled on both sides. But what we have experienced in the last few days is once again a violent escalation of the conflict against the background of Palestinian suicide bombers who in a crazy way show their disgust for human life. Israel and its inhabitants are repeatedly attacked, and they choose to defend themselves. Of course, you can discuss the extent and the way they defend themselves, but I will not dispute Israel's right to self-defense at all. Could events of the last few days have been avoided? It is difficult to say, but from the Palestinian side, for many years it has not been done enough to defuse the terror and hatred that has developed within the region of the Palestinian self-government. Whether Arafat has control and actively supports terrorism, or whether he does not have control and only has to watch it happen is uncertain, but in any case Arafat must have a great responsibility for what is going on. The upsurge of the Palestinians in the peace process that has taken place since Israel recognised the PLO in 1993 can be called into question. The following two and a half years Palestinian terrorists killed more Israelis than they had done in the previous ten years. Despite this setback, at the end of 1995, Israel carried out its first major withdrawal from the West Bank. This was answered by a wave of terror that led to 59 killed Israelis in two weeks. Barak’s extensive concessions at Camp David in July 2000, including: An Israeli offer to share Jerusalem was, as we know, followed by the intifada to which we have now witnessed, with more than 230 killed Israelis. Of this, it may seem that any admission to the Palestinians has led to more terror. Then you can slowly ask yourself, which probably Israeli authorities have done: what are we going to do now? Norway has played and is still trying to play a central role in what is happening in the Middle East. How history will judge the Norwegian effort is too early to say anything about it. I'm not going to judge it either. What I can certainly say is that the Norwegian authorities do not have bad intentions for their commitment. We want the best for both Israelis and Palestinians. But – and it is a great but – does our actions contribute to more peace, more democracy, better living conditions, less corruption and more respect for the human rights of the people involved? I allow myself to be doubtful about just that. Norwegian aid policy has for some time become more active in bringing beneficiary countries to a better political path, with more democracy, market economy and greater respect for fundamental human rights. Despite the views of the Progress Party on aid, we are pleased that, in general, Norwegian aid policy is characterised by greater demands on the recipient countries. Why is this not done to the Palestinian self-government authorities? Why are they exempted from the requirements and assessments of other beneficiaries? Now it may be that there may be some demands, demands that I am not familiar with. And that would be good. But then my follow-up question is: why does it have no consequences for the Palestinians when they obviously do not comply? I would say that we have done the Palestinian people a bear service by uncritically financing the Palestinian authorities without taking important action on the part of the Palestinians to destroy extreme terrorist groups operating within the Palestinian territory. They must do something to combat extensive corruption, serious action must be taken against the violation of the rights of the Palestinian population, and they must not at least do anything about what they allow by teaching, where the Palestinians have now for several years almost raised their children to future terrorists. This is done by accepting so-called suicide schools for young boys driven by e.g. Hamas. Furthermore, the Palestinian schoolbooks are permeated by a hatred for both the Israeli state, the Jewish people and the Jewish faith. This is not good for the future. Again new generations will grow up with the notion that peaceful coexistence is impossible. Why are we not responding to this? Why is it that almost whatever happens in the Palestinian territories, we're there with our support? By 31 October of this year, the Minister for Development promised additional millions with financial support to Arafat from Norway. Since 1993, we've been talking about billions to the Palestinians. Could it be that Arafat feels that the world around applauds what is happening, that he experiences both rousing words and sounding coins? It might seem like this. And of course, if that's what he's experiencing, why in the world is he going to change the style? I'll be able to put a big question mark on whether we've done the Middle East population wrong by our policies, whether it would have been better with more restraint, greater demands and less naivety. If you experienced a positive development for the Palestinians, you could probably argue with how good the assistance would have been. But I'm not familiar with such a positive development. I am aware that some will claim that it is exclusively Israel's fault, but it does nothing but take focus away from the root of the problem. The Progress Party therefore finds it natural after the latest developments in the Middle East to propose that Norwegian support to the Palestinian self-government authorities be stopped immediately. We believe that this will give an important signal, and that, in the light of Norway's prominent role in the peace process, it will make a good contribution to helping other donor countries to make entirely different demands on the Palestinians than has so far been the case. The government will then consider when the situation is ripe for perhaps continuing with assistance to the Palestinians, and then put a case on this before the Storting. I am addressing the proposal that I have now referred to. As far as the budget is concerned, the Progress Party, as the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, said quite correctly, has a different view from that of the majority — particularly with regard to this aid policy. However, I would like to point out that this year we have made a change – big or small getting other judgements – in relation to the past. We now have a positive attitude towards debt relief measures, which we believe are necessary in order to bring about the economy of the developing countries. In addition, I would like to mention our increase in humanitarian aid appropriations, where the Progress Party contributed to an increase of 250 million. kr, approx. 20 pst. This is also in line with proposals made earlier in the autumn for a greater allocation to humanitarian work in Afghanistan, which was greater than the majority at that time wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e456	The representative, Mr Højlund, has taken up the proposal he has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e461	The party of progress believes that a way to peace in the Middle East is for the Palestinian self-government to collapse by the international community pulling out all financial support. That is to say, the Progress Party has also submitted a proposal stating that the Storting can support new financial contributions to the Self-Government if the Government returns with an attitude to this effect. But the government has actually decided that one should continue with this support, as it is in the budget. What makes the Progress Party think that the Government will come to a completely different understanding later, that first a supported one will withdraw and then reintroduce it? Is it not most logical to trust the Government's assessment in this round as well, that support should continue instead of taking a stop, and that the Government will come back with its old proposal to continue supporting? This doesn't make any sense. The party of progress must either decide to pull support, let self-governance collapse and make anarchy in the area worse than it is, or one should also rely here on the government's assessment, which one intends to do in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e466	The Group of the Party of European Socialists recognises that there is a difference of opinion in this Chamber on aid policy, including the Palestinians. We do not believe that the bulk of the population would immediately jump on the attitude of the Progress Party towards aid. However, in the light of the current situation, we had hoped that we would be able to get support to hold back, or – as we have formulated it – immediately stop the assistance now being provided. We see that other countries also assess it. Germany is holding back parts of its support for the Palestinians, so this is not an unknown theme among the donor countries. We record the general attitude towards assistance from the Government, from the bulk of the population, but we believe that the situation today requires us to consider this with slightly different eyes from what we have done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e473	I would like to follow up on the theme that the last replicator also addressed. The Progress Party has therefore put forward a proposal in which they ‘are calling on the Government to immediately stop all financial support to the Palestinian self-government authorities’. I strongly doubt whether this is a positive contribution to the current crisis in the Middle East. Norwegian support goes to development work, to health, to education, to the construction of a public administration. And if you were to immediately withdraw all Norwegian contributions, I'm afraid that it can help completely undermine and weaken what is left of the legitimacy of the Palestinian administration in Palestinian society. So my question to the representative, Mr Höglund, is: The Greier Progress Party, to overlook the consequences of such a policy, and does the representative consider it appropriate in a way to deprive the Government of important instruments, which could also be useful in a situation where the dialogue might start again?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e480	As for the consequences of the actions you see in the Middle East, and what's happening down there, I don't think it's bad to know what's going to happen. Until then, the situation is too unpredictable. However, in the view of the Progress Party, Norwegian support for any regime, authority, country or self-government area cannot be implemented at all costs. We have to be able to have some principles and a view in relation to when we're in and when we're not in. We believe that the situation is now such that we are no longer involved in financial support under the Palestinian areas of autonomy. I could of course also discuss how these means are used and how they disappear on the road etc. This is also documented, inter alia. in international audit reports. So the benefits of the assistance can also be discussed, but I see the point that the representative Julie Christiansen raises, namely the signal effect. That's exactly the signal effect we're looking for. We don't think there's any other way to make the Palestinian authorities realize that the policies they've turned on are flawed. They must go into a completely different line to control terrorism in their own area, if we are to move on with peace in this part of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e485	The cowboy theory has not only reached Israel and Ariel Sharon, it has reached the representative Morten Höglund as well. The Progress Party is now proposing to stop all financial support from Norway to the Palestinian self-government agencies for an indefinite period. In recent years, Norway has provided significant resources to strengthen peace efforts in the Middle East and to contribute to stable economic and political development in the Palestinian region. Such developments will contribute to a more equivalent situation between the Israelis and the Palestinians. This will change now, after buying Sharon's rhetoric that the Palestinians are terrorists who have to be punished and removed. What we've seen in the last few days is unfortunately not new, but a new round of violence in the Middle East. Yasir Arafat has consistently distanced himself from the maritime murder actions and contributed greatly to long-term peace solutions, sailing if he could probably in many ways do more. The spiral of violence must now be turned down, not up, and it is the Israelis who must now take the initiative and act wisely. That wisdom is not humiliating Arafat towards the Palestinians by bombing the police stations in the Arafat neighborhood. That wisdom does not consist in humiliating the Palestinians by plowing up the airport in Gaza. Time would be if Israel stopped the constant humiliations and liquidations and withdrew from the occupied territories. I want to ask Høglund how he thinks this conflict will be resolved. What kind of alternative does Höglund have to a Palestinian maritime administration in a Palestinian state, and what goal does Höglund think that if we remove the appropriations that the Palestinians so badly need to create their democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e497	The President would point out that ‘cowboyretorics’ hardly belong in parliamentary language. It may be a little bit difficult for some of us to understand what's really in it, so maybe you're trying to stick to good, courteous Norwegian for the time being.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e500	The representative said that these means of assistance included: has led to stable economic and political development in the Palestinian territories. I'm in doubt if that's the case. I believe that this development has not given rise to a stable situation. The events we're experiencing are just an example of that. The lack of control of the Palestinian authorities over their own territory poses a threat to the daily experience of the Israeli population in Israel. That is the main threat to peaceful development. Israel went far in the Camp David negotiations. They wanted to share Jerusalem, they wanted to withdraw from almost the entire West Bank, but they wanted security for the Israeli population. To do that, it takes completely different actions than what we've seen for many years. To get out of the locked situation, we have come up with our proposal. Of course, there is also a responsibility on the part of Israel. We won't deny that. That we buy all rhetoric from Israel is also not correct. But that recent events have now begun with the background of Palestinian terrorists, we do not think there can be any doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e507	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e510	There are two areas which have our centre in the foreign debate today. It is Afghanistan and it is the Middle East – Israel and Palestine. I want to start with a little story from an area about in the middle – Kurdistan. An older man asked me, what kind of prophets do they have in Europe and what do they do with these prophets? I had to say, as it was true, that I was in doubt – but doubt and faith is going on – so I couldn't give a good answer. He said all of a sudden, Edison is my prophet. And then he pointed up the chandelier. It wasn't as nice as the chandelier we have in Stortinget, because it was a regular fluorescent lamp. They had put electricity into the village the previous year. This is seven to eight years ago. Today, almost the entire village of London lives after war, after a failure to get good enough solutions, after there were no resources to get school, health and education in this area. The budget now presented has many good posts for crisis prevention and conflict prevention. A whole new post is the provision of transitional assistance to ensure coherence between the long-term development challenges and humanitarian aid, so that resources can quickly be mobilised and positive phases used in peace processes. When it comes to reconstruction and stabilisation in countries where there has been a recent serious conflict, measures to achieve peace, reconciliation and long-term development are particularly important. We have to ask ourselves the question of the war in, for example. Afghanistan could have been avoided if we had invested as much in development, civil society and democracy as we currently use in the war, if we had been predictive enough to go in with help after the Soviets moved out for good and well ten years ago. We might have avoided the Taliban regime that, until those degrees, has hindered development. I shall not duplicate this, but I will only note that in the budget proposal that is before us, there are many good proposals to put in place more international legal order. And the practical exam will come up in Norway over the New Year, when we're going to hire the work of the donor country group for Afghanistan. In a later article, SV will also address the current issue of sending Norwegian forces to Afghanistan. A credible solution to the Middle East crisis can only be achieved by getting a Palestinian state. All the time we've been working on budgets beyond the fall, we've seen it increase the need to strengthen everything that can prevent war. SV suggests that you increase the permissions of the mails for trading and manage them further. We also propose increasing the opportunities for work in Palestinian refugee camps. These rights may be played in milk if one does not follow up with political results that end the occupation of Palestinian soil. Norway must be able to state clearly that there is an occupying and an occupied part. If it is the case that Israel has seen itself lead to overthrow the Palestinian self-government powers, Norway must do what we can to stop it. Having a good friend may at times be something of the toughest one can experience. A good friend simply says from when he thinks that one has gone too far or that one has rotted away. I'm sure we all have good experience with the friends that it's worth having, they're the ones who dare to say from one to the other. This experience from life's school may be good to have in international politics. It won't hurt anyone if Norway tells one of our closest allies, the United States, about conditions that we think have taken the wrong course. Example of this is when the U.S. will not allow money to ICC, the International Criminal Court, and does not fully support openness about the amounts deposited in tax havens. I'm not going to make the list anymore, but I'm just going to say that Norwegian foreign policy needs to be based on using the possibilities we have to say on behalf of the weakest party, both in international forums and in countries to land calls. SV believes that the international fight against poverty, conflict prevention, international environmental protection and protection of human rights must be a key issue in Norwegian foreign policy. Norway must further develop and strengthen the trust value within these areas. As a heavy player within international aid and involved in a series of peace processes, Norway has the ability to play a greater role internationally than our size should have. But this led, in our opinion, to Norway, among other things. Acting as a consistent defender of the interests of poor countries, is consistent in the criticism of human rights violations and pursues a consistent environmental policy. SV believes that Norway, as one of the world's richest nations, can contribute more to the development and fight against poverty, and therefore proposes an increase in the aid budget of 300 million in its alternative budget. In addition, the oil fund will be set aside for a Solidarity Fund for investment in the poorest countries. We need to ask ourselves whether it is possible to pursue an industrial policy that takes account of resilience and international solidarity. There is a link between what is happening in the Norwegian labour market and international policies. We've become so rich that like other rich countries, we can be tempted to bring in people who are going to work here for a short time without getting any food. We've closed this system in South Africa a few years ago, better known as apartheid. I want to make this visible with a quote from a yard director in the shipping industry from the last election campaign: 'We'd like to get workers here only, for God's sake, not get the same pay level as the Norwegians. And we can send them back when they are no longer needed." At another shipyard, in Aukra on the Romsdal coast, there is Smoke-Owned Aker Yards. The Director concerned about access to risk capital. When and when our major banks get their seats in Stockholm or Helsinki, it could put access to capital for these shipyards at risk. That's why the hull might be built somewhere else. To me, this says that capital goes where there are low wages, and the best profit is where there is also a lack of democracy. We in Norway can risk dumping wages and capital shortages becoming a problem. The only solution is that trade unionism is international, and that one facilitates as much as possible that trade unionism in other countries can cooperate with the Norwegian, and with the long-term objective of raising wages in other countries rather than pushing them down in Norway — not saying that we should actively engage in other countries’ wage negotiations, but that pay should be the best way to benefit a society. We ended in the fall a election campaign that was partly influenced by the relationship to taxes and charges in Norway. In all countries for which we provide assistance, the lack of taxes and taxes is a major problem. It is these taxes and charges that are to be paid for school, health and the whole construction of a welfare country. Norwegian aid policy needs to be corrected to provide leadership that will enable us to build up an internal distribution in the countries with which we cooperate. Something as simple as a bag of coffee, for example. I and everyone else in Norway care much more than the farmer in the country that produces the coffee, only at VAT, for example. When, after the war in Norway, we continued to build up our own welfare state, we gradually got started with assistance that was characterized by a tremendous optimism and a belief that one would achieve results in a short time. This has proved not to be the case, and we've learned a lot on the way. True aid without political reform is gone. We also know that assistance can put the recipient in a client role. Internal distribution in a country is best achieved by providing people with work and pay. That this also has a good part to say for self-respect, we know a lot about Norway. This is why SV is proposing a new post with additional funds for trade-union to strengthen the existing exchange work that is going on between trade-union in Norway and in other countries. I'd like to admit that we got the idea from the new Democrat Support/Parties post to the Stoltenberg government, to which we join. SV has already tried this through NORAD media. We have had good contact with many of our local teams in Norway who are in contact with local politicians in Central America. This is democracy building in practice. The capital current between the north and the south is probably negative in relation to the fact that there is more money going north than southwards, because the amortisation of debt represents so much of the expenditure of the countries in the south. Much good work is being done in this area, both multilaterally and bilaterally. I thought we should be better at distinguishing between indebtedness and indebtedness. I have registered that the correcting program on my computer only accepts debts with one s. But I still want to say that the word with two s's, debt cancels, is equally important, because there will often be a need to erase debts unilaterally, and not just to ease the debt. If only debt is refinanced, this could lead to countries never getting out of a debt trap in which at least the poorest in these countries are not guilty. SV has also found space of 1 million. kr to organisations and others engaged in information and impact work related to non-resident debt. Awareness-raising of these questions in the Norwegian opinion is a commitment to be closed in the long term with this work. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal from SV, which has been included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e554	Bjørn Jacobsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e559	SV is committed to long-term measures to prevent terrorism — by combating poverty, supporting democracy, etc. These are measures that we all agree with. But in the short term, SV has no solutions. It is too late to prevent terrorist attacks against the United States on 11 September. They've already happened. Those responsible must be held accountable. How will SV do that? In the short term, our joint efforts to combat poverty do little to help. It doesn't help with an international court, for which we work. It is not established, nor would it have had any authority in this case. The International Court of Justice shall not replace national courts where such courts exist and function. The question is therefore: what will SV do in the short term to combat terrorism and to put those responsible for the terrorist attacks on 11 September?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e568	I would first like to reply to the representative, Vallersnes, that when we base the UN, and when we base the ICC, it is clear that then we think very long-term. All over the world there is a need to build an international legal order. We see that part of our allies is not the same – what to say – eager to achieve such a legal order. In the short term, I also did not think SV would be short when we suggested that these operations should be under UN mandate. We've gone against bombing because we didn't believe it would work. We've been thinking that maybe it could put even more guy under that fire called terrorist networks around the world. We actually don't know what's going on in the head of people who can think of something as terrible as what happened on September 11th. In the United States, for example. bombing in Oklahoma. Quickly – quickly, Mrs Blom, I mean quite quickly – got a trial for those who had done it. And there was death sentence instead of maybe finding out what was moving up in the head of these kids who could figure out how to do something so terrible. Then a harsh and brutal answer with death sentence. We regard this as not particularly preventive in relation to international terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e575	I have to say that I had expected a long and continuous argument against continued bombing in Afghanistan in this main post from SV in this debate. What is this thing? SV has gone very high on the track with criticism of the bombing, and now we hardly hear a beep. There is no proposal for an early stop in the bombing, no proposal for Norway to press internationally to stop all military operations; we do not even see a proposal for a temporary stoppage. I have to ask the representative Jacobsen what this means. Has SV now changed its view of the bombing and military operations? Was it wrong to act to overturn the extremist Taliban regime, which has shot at power, and which has kept the population in an iron grip? Now the representative Jacobsen said that it was thought that the bombing could put another guy on the fire. But I remember Kristin Halvorsen saying that every day it's bombed, the Taliban is strengthened. Does the representative Jacobsen think this was a good analysis? And can SV admit that there are possibilities that they have been wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e582	First, I want to say that we're going to come back to Afghanistan in a later article from SV. We in SV are also very pleased that the acts of war in Afghanistan now appear to be going to the end. We also enjoy the fact that the bombing might have worked. It has not been said that we have changed the basic view that we were against the bombing. We believed in solving it in other ways. Not least, in relation to the long-term impact of the bombing, of the enormous use of resources. We believe, for example. That the biggest problem in our culture is that we do what we can, just like when one comes to the hospital and there are many surgeons present, then the chance of one being operated is reasonable. How does the world react to the terrible thing she did on September 11th? Well, we'll figure out what equipment we have. It's bombs, it's bombers. That's the way we answer it. We think the world has to turn around once in that way internationally. We believe that in order to prevent these things in the long term, and especially in a situation where we hardly know who the enemy is, we still stand by the fact that we were against it bombing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e591	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e595	I have to note that SV cannot explain what the consequences would have been if we had not gone to military operations and carried out what the broad alliance has been doing for a few weeks now. We now see that the broad alliance is winning the war in Afghanistan. The Taliban and the al-Qaeda terrorist network are being paralysed, and we are seeing a happy development in that today we were told that there is agreement on how to put together a new government in Afghanistan, which hopefully can build peace and democracy and human rights. SV has been the leading critic of the government's policy, and has long asked for a halt in the bombing. I have been confirmed today that they are still asking for a stop in the bombing. I wonder why there is no suggestion about this today. SV believed that the bombing would lead to a reinforcement of the Taliban, and that it would happen as the bombing progressed. The opposite has now proved to be the case — that the Taliban’s defeat has been achieved, at least to a greater extent than the many dared to hope for, and that the Taliban’s protective room around Osama bin Laden is still being restricted. It paves the way for an orderly regime that does not open the country to terrorists and heroin producers. When developments in and around Afghanistan have made it necessary to assess Norwegian forces for the ongoing fight against international terrorism, SV remains counter-productive. And I have to ask: does SV have another effective solution that can in the short term bring the terror to life? The purpose of Norwegian strength contributions is to follow up the United Nations decision to repress those who use terror to achieve policy objectives. Therefore, sending a limited number of Norwegian military to Afghanistan or neighbouring areas is a political solidarity act in the fight against international terrorism. More than 30 countries have agreed to contribute militarily. Norway has every reason to support such an action, because the fight against terrorism also concerns our security. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, the Constitution § 25 does not prevent the participation of Norwegian troops in an international defence under non-Norwegian command. This is probably anchored in recent Norwegian state practices. Therefore, the Act does not impose any restrictions on Norwegian military participation in relation to the situation in Afghanistan. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway must now show a willingness to follow up our political support measures, and that we are prepared to take our share of the military burden. It is important to note that although the United States is the dominant country in the war against terrorism in Afghanistan, this is politically not an American operation. It's a broad international coalition of states that are now participating in this battle, perhaps the widest we've ever seen. The right of the United States to individual and collective self-defence is in accordance with Article 51 of the United Nations Charter and is expressly confirmed by the UN Security Council in Resolution 1368. This indicates that the estimates are a threat to international peace and security. Furthermore, the Council of NATO has triggered its obligations under Article 5 of the Atlantic Treaty to provide assistance to other Member States who so request. Norway’s contribution must be seen in the light of these international decisions. The military operations aimed at the terrorist network al-Qaeda and the Taliban movement have a clear international legal base and are to safeguard important international common interests and values such as international peace and security. The Christian People's Party would like to stress that Norway's contribution does not only concern participation in military combat actions. We are therefore pleased that the Government is also prepared to send units to contribute to humanitarian support operations such as transport, mine clearance and airdrops. The military contribution is further intended as a short-term aid. The fight against international terrorism must also be waged by political, legal, diplomatic and financial means. Only by using a holistic and long-term approach in a broadest possible alliance will terrorist networks be dismantled. Only Afghanistan itself can take primary responsibility for the development of the country, but the UN and the rest of the world need to assist and make demands in the construction of the country. Norway will contribute actively through the ASG Presidency from 1 January onwards. Here Norway is given the opportunity to take diplomatic action. I hope it can be used to focus on democracy and human rights in further development cooperation. The political process must be parallel to and supported by humanitarian aid and reconstruction aid. The combination of acts of war, general distress and a beginning of winter have created dramatic conditions for many Afghans. In Afghanistan, 5 million people were already dependent on emergency aid before the air attacks. The 2002 budget proposal provides for a further stepping up of assistance to Afghanistan and its surrounding areas. The main objective must be to create peace, reconciliation and development in the region, where immediate needs are met in accordance with a long-term perspective involving political stabilisation and economic reconstruction in Afghanistan. The conflict between Israel and Palestine has also come to light following the attacks on the United States on 11 September, and today’s developments are damaging the fight against terrorism. Terrorism has a deeper cause than this conflict alone, but there is no doubt that the cause of the Palestinians is strongly contributing to the sacred war of militant Muslims against the West. This matter is not least important in the propaganda of terrorists in their efforts to gain understanding and upliftment in the Muslim world. A peaceful solution between the Israelis and the Palestinians can therefore be an important means of war against terrorism. Norway must continue its extensive Middle East exposure and encourage Israel and the Palestinians to implement without delay the recommendations contained in the Mitchell report and the Tenet plan. The aim must be to bring back the political process so that the final status negotiations can be resumed. It is important to stress that terrorism has its origins in deep intolerance and extremism, but poverty can give rise to desperation and violence. Combating poverty is therefore one of our main instruments in the fight against the underlying causes of conflict, terrorism and other threats to human security. The 2002 budget proposal emphasises that the Government will work for a more holistic and powerful South policy and that it will strengthen its response to global poverty. It is therefore very gratifying that the appropriations for ODA-approved assistance next year will increase from 0.89 p.m. to 0.92 pst. by GNI, and that a broad majority in the UK want assistance to increase to 1 pst. This is fully in line with the escalation plan proposed in the 2000 budget. It is therefore important to be clear that there is a concrete escalation plan and that the increase in percentage now has to be considered as part of this escalation plan. We are committed to combining development cooperation more effectively than in the past in order to improve the international framework conditions of developing countries, and in particular in the areas of trade, debt and the environment. We are pleased that the Government is now putting up a strong commitment to education, health and social services, giving priority to the fight against HIV/AIDS. The overall objective of Norwegian development cooperation is to contribute to the improvement of the economic, social and political situation of developing countries. There's a lot of excitement in the Norwegian people about this. The best way to meet today's challenges is to increase international cooperation with efforts across a broad front. Here it is essential that all countries participate and take their duties and rights in the world community, in order to create a safer and fairer world. I would also like to comment on some of what the representative, Mr Höglund, said about the conflict in the Middle East. I have to say that I fully share his concern about the violence currently taking place, and we agree that the most important thing we can do now is get the parties back to the negotiating table. But I must also say that we will give strong expression of compassion for what the Israelis have experienced now, especially in the last days, where civil and innocent lives have been lost. But it can't be a solution if you contribute to strengthening the spiral of violence. I cannot understand the fact that the representative, Mr Höglund, agrees, rather than strongly expressing the need to come back to the negotiating table. Former Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin chose to take Yasir Arafat in his hand, despite the fact that he had seen hundreds of his soldiers go to the grave. He blamed Arafat for this, but he still chose to take Arafat in his hand. Is it not a better solution to bet on negotiations than on continued violence?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e631	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e634	The first part of Rise's posts was almost created as a replica of SV. So I think it's right to say that SV is not a pacifist party, but we have a lot of pacifists in our party, and we're going to have a policy that can make them even in our party. I assume that the Christian People's Party also has a part of them. I would have liked myself to have wanted me to be a pacifist, because it's perhaps the only thing that makes sense when you're going to take care of how people should behave towards each other. We in SV are also to use power when necessary – if it works. We ask the question, does it work? In this case with Afghanistan, our opinion was that it would not work. But then my question will be forwarded to the representative Rise: Should we continue to bomb in other countries with our strength contributions, with F-16 – Iraq, Sudan, Yemen? What are we going to use these forces for? Is there more of a symbolic force you're after here, materialized through F-16, or is it over to a military force? What's this, what's this, what's this military force, or what's the symbolic force you're going to give to the United States? Otherwise I would say that no one has well demanded bombing in Boston when it goes off a bomb in London. There is no doubt either that the bombs that are detonated in London are funded from the United States. But no one has demanded bombing there for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e643	I have to note that SV has not really provided an explanation as to why there is no proposal on the table today about stopping military operations, about stopping bombing. There is no suggestion of a temporary stoppage of bombing, and I wonder why. I also don't think we've been given an explanation of what SV thinks would be the consequences of stopping the military operations, or what the consequences would have been if you hadn't carried out these military operations, which is actually perhaps the broadest alliance in world history. What would be the consequences if Norway – as about the only country in the world – were to withdraw from this broad alliance? It's been SV's vision. I think we lack an argument and an explanation of what the consequences would have been. So the representative Jacobsen says we have to use power when necessary. And if ever necessary, it must be now that the whole world is in danger of being affected by acts of terror from a network that is vicious, has enormous resources, and has shown a violent will to carry out cruel acts of terror, where the aim is to hit as many civilians as possible and innocent. Then ask the representative Jacobsen if we should go further and bomb in Sudan and Yemen. I don't know that decisions in NATO or in the Security Council would say anything but bombing the terrorist networks in Afghanistan, so that's an entirely out-of-date issue. And when the representative refers to the symbolic nature of bombing, I must refer to the concrete results.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e654	I hope the representative Rise allows me to say that there is some sort of fresh relief from the representative Rise's posts here today, because I actually believe that many in the Christian People's Party have been in as much doubt and concern as the SV was when the acts of war in Afghanistan started. There have also been many in other parties – many in the Center Party and also many in the Workers' Party. And then one has now come into a situation where the representative Rise and others are most concerned about summarizing that we have now succeeded. Well, well, it's probably a little early to make this debate the big victory debate that actually worked out. It is true that the Taliban regime is about to be repressed, but what will be the alternative in Afghanistan depends on the world community being set up. It is correct that bin Laden's network in Afghanistan is now under pressure. But it is not that bin Laden has been taken yet. Many of the main objections that SV had to these bombings are equally relevant now. Has it strengthened the recruitment of terrorist networks in other parts of the world, or has it not? Has it helped to increase the legitimacy of the argument actually put forward in relation to the terrorist action against the United States, or has it not? Then the representative Rise actually has to make an independent opinion, because it's not that it's unknown to the Christian People's Party or anyone else that what's now under discussion is, are we going to move on? Is Iraq the next one? Is Sudan the next one? Is it Somalia that's up for luck? Is it Yemen who's next? Then the Christian People’s Party must take a completely independent view of the following: Is the recipe in the fight against terrorism for further bombing in new countries? Does it bring the world closer to peace and security?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e668	I have to note that the representative Halvorsen avoids responding to the challenges that have arisen here today against SV. I also began to doubt whether the representative heard Halvorsen after I made my main post, because there was no victory post at all where I found that we now have a full victory. I said that the Taliban’s defeat was achieved ‘to a greater extent than many dared to hope’, and that ‘Taliban’s protective room around Osama bin Laden is constantly being restricted’. It is a thorough analysis of what has been achieved in recent Afghanistan. So I think it's too early to celebrate the victory. We haven't got there yet. But I asked if SV could explain what the consequence would have been if we had not gone to military operations. How would the situation of the population of Afghanistan be in front of a winter, if it had not been possible to crack the Taliban power apparatus? In addition, one of my main questions about Halvorsen's representative agreed that she was wrong when she claimed that the Taliban was being strengthened for every day it's bombed. Now she's asking the question: Has the bombing helped recruit terrorist networks in other countries? It's not a claim anymore, but it's a question, which is, of course, currently difficult to answer with certainty. However, I note that we do not receive an answer as to why there is no proposal from SV here today that the bombing should be stopped or that a temporary stoppage should be introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e677	The representative Lars Rise was within what the proposal of the Progress Party would involve in terms of cutbacks in support of the PLO. Yes, what has history actually shown us? How many times do you have to grab each other's hands, then go home – and everything is like before? Not only that, it gets worse too. For us in the Progress Party, it looks like the more money PLO gets, the worse it gets. Does the representative Rise think that everything is going to work out with money from Norway? Maybe it's time to say clearly that what's happening now is not tolerated, and that it has economic consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e686	The background for Norwegian involvement in the Middle East is, among other things, The Oslo Agreement and the major progress made in 1993 – the time when the intentions were agreed. At that time, there was also a strong Israeli desire for Norwegian efforts to increase living standards among others. Palestinians. We must remember that the background to this whole process leading up to the Oslo Agreement was a study of living conditions in these areas – and the Norwegian commitment has also been strongly desired by Israel. Today, there are very strict demands on how the funds are used, and we have no indications of misuse of funds. I therefore see no reason to go along with the proposal that the Progress Party is promoting here today. I believe that assistance to this area, which is so badly affected by conflicts and violence, is more necessary than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e693	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e696	I intend to take the budget first, then Afghanistan, and then say a few words about the Middle East – it is seaworthy to get an increase in the programme! For the budget: the Central Party notes that there is no majority in favour of an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as proposed by the Central Party in its alternative budget. We have therefore joined the proposals of the Cooperation Government. I want to use this part of the budget article to highlight some issues and individual issues on which the Central Party believes it is necessary to focus and where efforts should be stepped up. Norway’s place in the Security Council will be a demanding task in 2002. The Central Party will stress the importance of active use of membership to further develop the humanitarian agenda of the Security Council, contribute to a reinforced focus on the situation in Africa and strengthen the UN's work in the fight against terrorism. We will also underline the important task that Norway has undertaken as head of the Afghanistan Support Group and the importance of allocating sufficient resources to this work in the EEAS. It will be absolutely essential to speed up long-term reconstruction work in Afghanistan in parallel with political work and emergency aid, and it is precisely by ensuring financial resources for reconstruction that Norway has a major task. We believe it is necessary and right that the UN should lead the reconstruction process. But the fact that the United Nations is leading the long-term reconstruction does not relieve the West of responsibility for making financial statements. We must not, for the most part, make the loss again: roll the responsibility over to the UN, then forget the country just as quickly as the flashlights go off, and leave the UN in the grip of the problems and also the guilt if things go wrong. NATO has financial resources for a military operation. Then you also have the means to rebuild, and therefore to prevent history from repeating itself. As head of the Afghanistan Support Group, it will be an important task for Norway to remind NATO partners about this. Another important foreign policy task in the years ahead is the new round of negotiations in the World Trade Organisation. WTO negotiations could prove crucial for everything from global distribution and the world's environmental situation to how to ensure the welfare of individuals and whether we can maintain a maritime cultural policy. Taking into account the potentially significant consequences of the round of negotiations, the Centre Party considers that it is appropriate to submit a separate notification of the size that will allow the Stortinget to review the consequences of further trade liberalisation. The majority of the population have the aim of stepping up assistance to 1 pst. of GNI. It is urgent to achieve this goal, and the Central Party believes that assistance should in the long term be up to 1.5 pst. of GNI. Specific provisions under the Oil Fund for aid purposes will be one way to achieve this objective. The Party underlines the importance of strengthening the UN system so that UN organisations can make greater use of their potential to perform important tasks in the world community. Global common problems are increasing, but there is no willingness to strengthen the global cooperation mechanisms. Political energy is increasingly focussed on regional cooperation mechanisms, and the global will continue to lag behind. It is hoped that the terrorist acts of 11 September of this year — in all its grotesqueness — will help to increase the understanding of the importance of global cooperation mechanisms. In particular, we believe that Norway should increase its contribution to the UN and that it is worrying that assistance to the UN system will be well below 40 pst. in 2002. The central party means 50 pst. should be a minimum level. Both multilateral and bilateral development cooperation must continue to be based on consistent poverty-orientation and decoupling of assistance. More consistent focus should be placed on administrative and institutional development, which will also be crucial for the sustainability of business engagement. Furthermore, we would stress that the focus on education, especially for girls, and health, with a focus on HIV/AIDS, is right and very important. We will also stress that Norway should strengthen cooperation with Russia bilaterally and through multilateral forums. We are disappointed that it has not been possible to increase that effort in the current budget. Nuclear safety cooperation with Russia must be pursued as quickly as possible and project cooperation with North-West Russia should be strengthened strongly. Both the United States and the EU need to be involved in addressing the challenges in our neighbourhoods, especially in relation to nuclear safety. I also want to mention a field that is often forgotten, and it's the disarmament work. Disarmament issues still need to be adequately addressed and Norway must contribute to progress in the UN Conference on Disarmament. Work on creating an international code for small arms should be intensified. There are no types of weapons that contribute to more deaths than small arms, and civilians are suffering in the form of fear and mutilation. We hope for an initiative from the Government in that field. Let me also underline the importance of Norway actively promoting its interests within the EU and the EEA. We believe that Norway needs to work more systematically and use more resources to get into work on the design of EEA legislation early enough. The fact that we have a bad agreement with the EU does not mean that we should not stand on the barricades to promote our national interests. The EU is a political organisation, starting from the fact that each country fights for its particular interests. For us, it seems that the ‘yes’ page is so concerned not to make it visible that one has conflicts with the EU that one does not take sufficiently good care of Norwegian interests. As far as the budget is concerned, I regret that the Co-operation Administration has cut off measures for press, cultural and information purposes. In this area, we don't need to cut, but rather a significant reinforcement. A globalised world taken into account has never been more important to increase foreign cultural engagement than it is now. The use of culture to build bridges and to create cross-border understanding is an unused resource in Norwegian foreign policy. Where languages do not extend, cultural activities can help to create a different and deeper understanding. It is short-term and short-sighted not to use this tool. Then go to Afghanistan and the question of whether Norway should report military forces, where I have four points. First, a matter of such importance as whether to report military forces in an operation is politically wise to discuss in an open magnification, regardless of what one might think about the interpretation of the Basic Law § 25. We therefore welcome today's debate. Secondly, the Centre Party supports Norway’s reporting Norwegian strength contributions to the operation in Afghanistan, stating that this is not an easy decision, which I do not suppose it has been for others either. Thirdly, we ask the Government to carefully consider how Norway should be represented in the command structure if it becomes appropriate to participate with military forces. And fourthly, when it comes to funding, we think it's an obvious matter. The financing of this operation must definitely take place outside the adopted budget framework, i.e. through additional appropriations. Finally, a few words about the Middle East. We are facing a very difficult and dangerous situation in the Middle East. The drama of what is happening must definitely not be underestimated. We can discuss whether Arafat has done enough earlier to combat the violence – let's take that discussion – but from the actual situation, it's going to be completely wrong to talk about Arafat having to do more, as government representatives now say. What room of action does Arafat actually have in today's situation? There's a new situation in the Middle East after the escalation of the war acts now. This also requires new rhetoric. What we are talking about now in relation to developments in the Middle East can simply be linked to ensuring world peace. Everyone who has influence has to put heavy pressure on everyone in order for us to be able to get out of this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e731	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e734	The representative of the Central Party, Haga, stressed the importance of strengthening cooperation with Russia and said that it is important both bilaterally and in various multilateral forums. I fully agree with that. An important development we see after 11 September is a greater convergence between Russia and NATO, and in particular Russia and the EU. It is a development that I believe Norway too can play a role in contributing to, i.e. we are doing more to integrate Russia into European cooperation structures. We have forums close to us, Baltic Sea cooperation, Barents' cooperation, etc., where this should be emphasised. I wonder if Haga's statement that regional cooperation mechanisms are being prioritised, and that the global forums are being followed, is somewhat contradictory to the opportunities we can have in the regional cooperation forums to bring Russia closer into European cooperation. The Central Party also attaches great importance to strengthening cooperation with the Baltic countries and the candidate countries of Central and Eastern Europe. I believe that the European Union as a regional forum and our contribution to the enlargement process is very important. Aren't these two different relationships different?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e741	The answer to the question is no. It's not in any contrast to each other. From a global perspective, I think it is obvious to say that we are seeing a trend towards more focus on regional cooperation mechanisms than on the global one. We are going to deal with Europol, which is a brilliant example of this, later today. One chooses to develop the regional mechanism for police cooperation, Europol, and resources are very limited to strengthen what is the international mechanism for international police cooperation, namely Interpol. It's a living illustration of how we actually choose to use our political energy, and how we choose to use our resources. With regard to our desire to strengthen both Barents' cooperation and Baltic Sea cooperation, these are regional mechanisms with a very limited scope; we cannot in any way talk about a comparison between Barents' cooperation and Baltic Sea cooperation and the supranational processes taking place in the EU. What has been successful in the cooperation we see within the Barents Council is people for the people-cooperation. Bilateral relations across borders are a completely different form of cooperation from what we are talking about when we look at the regional mechanisms, the type of EU. So it is not useful to compare these mechanisms that we have for cooperation on the European continent; the EU stands in a special position in the light of its supranationality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e748	The centre party has very ambitious objectives in terms of increasing the aid budget in the long term. We can probably disagree on the effectiveness of the aid, but that is a good thing. We know that the view of the Central Party on trade, free trade and globalisation is somewhat more reserved. At the same time, most of our knowledge suggests that it is what really monks and matters to the fight against poverty in the world. What Norway could possibly add to extra billions would be like a drop to count in contrast to what a more open world could give of positive prosperity. Does not the Central Party and the representative of Åslaug Haga see here that there is a contradiction between the desire for increased assistance and the motivation behind it, and the fact that, as I see it, you are negative to the globalisation that the rest of the world wants to participate in? The centre party, as I see it, fights against this, especially exemplified by the resistance to opening up trade in Norwegian agricultural products, to take something quite concrete. The centre party must be the party on the Stortinget which is the most restrictive in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e757	It makes no sense to be opposed to globalisation. Globalisation is a phenomenon, it is a fact. What we say in relation to the debate on globalisation is that we think it is wise for development that we have a somewhat greater degree of political governance than many others want to add up to. We think it's wise to tame the market forces, because the market forces in free play create a world where the rich become richer and the poor become poorer. And that's what is our approach to the globalisation debate, we want to harness market forces so that we get a social development that serves everyone. We're a little bit involved in the same kind of the trading system. We have a trading system, we need a trading system. The question is how to develop that trading system. We believe that there are some clear negative aspects to the trading system, and the negative aspects are essentially that one does not take sufficient account of the poorest countries, one does not take sufficient account of the environmental impact of trade, and one does not take sufficient account of social standards, labour standards. If we were able to take that into account in a much better way, the trading system would also contribute in a significantly better way to creating global development and global warming. So we don't have any problems with the trading system if we can fix it a little bit differently. We think it's a wise and proper way to go, and in that area, I actually think that things are starting to move in the right direction. There is now a greater understanding of the need to make adjustments in the trading system in relation to precisely the elements I mentioned. When we don't think it's wise to have a completely liberalized market in agricultural products, it's because food is actually a different type of product than cans and glassware.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e766	The representative Haga also referred to the Basic Law Section 25 and the importance of the Stortinget now having to discuss this matter. But it is stated in Section 25, among other things. the following: “The Land Guard and the other Forces, which could not be counted as Line Forces, shall never, without the consent of the Great Thing, be used outside the limits of the Kingdom.” It is important to take into account the ideas behind this provision introduced in the autumn of 1814, which was that these teams should be reserved for action on Norwegian soil, so that the country would not remain completely without defence because all military resources were used to defend the interests of the Union. The provision therefore has no relevance to the issue we are facing today. I would like to ask the Central Party whether you now disagree with the function of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee and whether you want a completely different practice for the future. The centre party has also argued strongly for bombing, especially now in front of winter, and I would like to know if the centre party has changed its view on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e778	As far as the debate on bomb break is concerned, we've had this in this room before, but we'll take it again. The starting point for the Central Party was that we asked for a bomb break at a time when we saw no progress in relation to the military operation in Afghanistan. We went against the winter, and we learned that we were facing an increasingly demanding emergency situation. So we asked for a bomb break, with two starting points. One was that we should ensure that we got emergency help into Afghanistan before the winter, and the other was that we should get the negotiation process on the rails. Both of these elements are in place. And from that point of view, the Center Party has had all the way, that we supported the launch of the actions, it says we're behind what's going on right now. We're not asking for a bomb break now, because the two elements we mentioned as essential for a bomb break are met. I have also said in the past that we support Norway reporting strengths for the operation in Afghanistan. In relation to Section 25, it is important that the representative Rise listens. I said that I thought it was wise that we discussed in this room the question of whether Norway should report military forces and that we have an open debate. In fact, I think that is very wise. This is no small matter. It's important that we have transparency about these questions. In matters of importance, I think it is reasonable for the Storting to have a debate. We do not believe that we should change the government's prerogatives in relation to foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e787	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e790	The budget setting shows that there is a broad majority behind the main priorities of Norwegian foreign policy. It's a closely aligned committee that adheres to the government's priorities. The left is particularly satisfied with the strong increase in aid. The aid is now up to 0.92 pst. of GNI. It is the goal of the Left and the Government that assistance comes up in 1 pst. by GNI before 2005. However, more important than the quantity of aid involved is its quality and its facilities. The left wants to continue and strengthen an important principle of Norwegian aid, such as combating poverty, women's support and commitment to sustainable development. For the Left, voluntary organisations have always played a central role in Norwegian aid. They make an important effort in several areas. Voluntary organisations are important as a channel for direct assistance to recipients such as poor and women, especially where state aid is made difficult by authorities in the recipient countries. They seem to be a catalyst for mobilising voluntary non-profit efforts by Norwegian citizens, and as a channel for information to the Norwegian people. They are a channel for mobilising resources from the voluntary sector, and they have an important role as a centre of expertise in the construction of civil society in the recipient countries, among others. through cooperation with local and national organisations. For these reasons, voluntary organisations, from the few to the many small ones, make up a completely necessary complement to government assistance. Debt is one of the most important measures for development in many poor countries. The Left and Government will also follow up the debt cancellation plan and expand it to include, among others. some middle-income countries. That's what I was going to say about the budget. The very serious situation in the Middle East has worsened in recent days. Palestinian suicide operations and massive air attacks against Palestinian targets by Israeli forces make the situation more and more serious, and civilised on both sides of the conflict. There is a great responsibility on both the Palestinian and the Israeli sides to put an end to the acts of violence. Nevertheless, Israel, as an occupying power and the military-strong party to the conflict, has a special responsibility. As Israel now reacts to the power actions, it is only right to strengthen the chosen one further. There is also a paradox to attack from the Israeli side, among other things. The Palestinian police make it even harder for Arafat to prevent acts of violence on the Palestinian side. Such attacks on the moderate forces on the Palestinian side weaken the Palestinian self-government and strengthen the Palestinian extremists further. Norway, together with the rest of the international community, must, as soon as possible, contribute to the establishment of a truce and then bring the Middle East peace process back on track. A solution must be based on the Palestinians' rightful claim to a state of their own, and Israel's right to exist within safe borders. Norway must support a lasting peace settlement based on the relevant UN resolutions. This means that Israel must retreat from the West Bank, Gaza and parts of East Jerusalem, and that the illegal settlements of occupied land must return to Palestinian control. The Palestinian refugees must be compensated for lost property and suffering, and the international community must contribute to this. For the Left, it is essential to point out that a lasting peace can only be based on the fact that peaceful coexistence has broad popular support on both sides. Norway should, therefore, strengthen its people's cooperation in the Middle East, especially under the auspices of voluntary organizations. The left congratulates Kofi Annan and the UN on the Nobel Peace Prize. Under Kofi Annan's leadership, the UN has shown in recent years an increasing capacity to act as a peace-guaranteer on behalf of the world community. At the same time, we experience that the world society is facing a very difficult situation. Together we have declared ‘war on terror’. Right now, it is particularly important and right that the price goes to the world community’s most important premiscuous provider of peace. September 11 showed us seriously that, after the end of the Cold War, we face new threats to international peace and security. One of these is international terrorism, which has gradually become more deadly in the last decade. The cruel terrorist attacks of 11 September give the United States and the world community a clear right to fight the terrorists, and the Left endorses Norway's participation in the international fight against terrorism. However, the fight against terrorism must take place with more than military instruments. Equally important are economic development and real political participation. The fight against terrorism is also a fight for real democracy and for equivalent economic development. After 11 September, we have seen a tendency to weaken human rights in the fight against terrorism. This applies to the handling of prisoners of war in Afghanistan, but also among our close allies we see tendencies towards stricter anti-terrorist legislation at the expense of the most fundamental liberal courts. This applies, inter alia, to: laws allowing terrorist suspects to be prosecuted in a specific military court. The Court of Justice shall be secret, have lower requirements for evidence than normal civil courts; it shall be able to judge citizens of all countries, irrespective of where the criminal offence has been committed, and shall be able to condemn one to death. The left very seriously looks at this, and will stress that the fight against terrorism, whether by law in each country, by acts of war or by diplomacy, must take place without fundamental human rights being undermined. The right forum for the prosecution of terrorism and other crimes against human beings is an international court with an international mandate, under the supervision of the United Nations. Suspected terrorists must also have legal protection in accordance with the principle of the rule of law. In his speech to the General Assembly on 10 November this year, Kofi Annan stressed that human rights must be integrated into all of the UN's work. Norway, through its place in the Security Council, must be involved in this. The fight against terrorism must not be an excuse for states to promote their national interests or to oppress other groups. That is why the UN must be given the primary responsibility for the long-term reconstruction of Afghanistan. It is also the United Nations which must mandate any military operations in countries that sponsor terrorism. And it is the UN that needs to ensure that the security and rights of ethnic minorities are safeguarded. The left joins the Government's proposal to make Norwegian forces available in Afghanistan. The aid to Afghanistan is now being stepped up further, and it may be necessary for one to have military forces in place to ensure the reconstruction of Afghanistan. The reconstruction of Afghanistan will be a long-term and comprehensive work. Norway must take its share of responsibility and lead in this important work of securing those who live in Afghanistan, human rights, democracy and prosperity. The West joins in the distribution that was given before, and the work that the Government has done in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e843	The United States and the Allies are winning the war in Afghanistan. Now we have to make sure not to lose the peace. These include: on reconstruction. After 20 years of war, the infrastructure is completely destroyed. Large populations have fled from their homes. National construction in Afghanistan begins by repairing the ground wall. There is a lack of political stability. There are currently no public authorities capable of providing basic services such as education, health and safety for citizens. The country cannot do this on its own. The international community will have to make a determined and coordinated effort to win peace, including in the long term. Here we are faced with three difficult tests. The first is whether the international community is able to coordinate and provide effective assistance. The second is whether we are able to avoid the CNN effect and stand by the commitments over a longer period of time and carry out the reconstruction. The third test is whether we can make the political, the humanitarian and the aid work together. At the same time, we must not be tempted to forget other countries and regions that are in a critical phase after war and conflict – and many are there right now. We have proposed to increase the transitional assistance by 45 million. D in relation to the last government's proposal for a decision. Both in Afghanistan and in several areas of Africa, such Norwegian support will be used well in the coming year. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee concludes on this proposal. Transitional assistance is a good example of a field in which the United Nations system and international development institutions will be key actors. They will be most important to manage to close the gap between humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation. The 10-point humanitarian strategy discussed by the United Kingdom in January 1999 also provides a solid basis for this. This showed that Norway will be at the forefront of a fully integrated and strategic approach to humanitarian aid, peace and reconciliation and development. This is a consciously poverty-oriented commitment to education and health, to the environment, democracy and human rights, and to funding mechanisms that fill a critical gap between emergency aid and long-term action. We're following this up now. The governance of cooperation will pursue a development policy with a focus on poverty reduction. We will contribute to the achievement of the international development goals to which the United Nations Millennium Assembly has joined. This applies not least to halving the number of people in extreme poverty by 2015. To do this in the most effective way possible, we will present an action plan on poverty reduction in February next year in connection with the 50th anniversary of Norwegian development cooperation. I am pleased that the budgetary suspension confirms the broad consensus that is now on the main lines of Norwegian development policy, and not least the escalation of the level of ODA-approved aid to 1 pst. of GNI. Evolution is to gain freedom, the freedom to choose a better life. This is what Norwegian development cooperation should really support: helping to create opportunities for people in poor countries and poor people to make use of their own resources and their own rights to rise and be raised by poverty. Aid alone is not sufficient to combat poverty. The rich countries also have a heavy responsibility to contribute to poverty reduction, to framework conditions. The first major breakthrough came with the so-called HIPC initiative around 1995. The need for an overall approach to solving debt problems was put on the agenda. The scheme has been significantly expanded and improved and is an important contribution to development policy. Today in the budget, our own debt plan is expanded in relation to middle-income countries and countries that are just coming out of conflict. This puts Norway back in the first place in the fight to solve the debt problems of poor countries. Trade is another prerequisite for development. Also in the field of trade, positive things have happened, and actually almost another breakthrough that we experienced in the developing world at the Doha WTO meeting last month. Here we need to be able to follow up not only the MUL Conference on Trade in May this year, but also the events that took place in Doha, so that the results of developing countries become a reality for the poor. Not least, it will be important to strengthen technical assistance for trade promotion, but also the market access of developing countries to Norway. Education will be job no. 1st@item: inlistbox That is the first priority of this government. Education is a fundamental prerequisite for combating poverty and for economic and social development, as well as the development of a democratic society. We want particular attention to be paid to the right to education for girls and women. In the supplementary proposal, we have proposed to increase aid for training of regional appropriations for Africa and Asia by a total of 31 million. kr. An important change in relation to the previous government’s draft budget is related to the civil society item, which is proposed to increase by 40 million in the supplementary proposal. kr. The reason is that we focus on volunteering and civil society, and not least on the voluntary organisations as good partners, and grassroots-oriented them, in the development work. It is essential to strengthen the development of their own democratic institutions and processes by the co-operative countries, and I am thinking in particular of the ‘watchtowers’ of society: free media, parties and various institutions of civil society. Here we will bet stronger in the time to come. We will also focus more on development cooperation that helps to strengthen the economic growth of developing countries themselves. We will therefore pursue the follow-up to the Strategy for the Development of Enterprise in South, launched in February 1999, through a number of actions. Health is a fundamental prerequisite for development. Therefore, we will put the fight against the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the high-seat. Work on setting up a new global fund to combat HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria is likely to be completed next week. In early 2002, we will take a position on the amount of funds to be channelled through the new fund and on the amount to be avoided through other channels. A great deal has happened in 50 years in terms of our own approach to development cooperation and our contribution to the international dialogue. It has become a broader and deeper recognition that economic growth, good governance and the fight against poverty are aspects of the same thing. And in the case of good governance, I can assure the representative, Höglund, that strict demands are being made on the Palestinian self-government authorities and their administration of Norwegian aid funds. As I have also stated in my own written reply to the representative, Höglund, we closely monitor the management of Norwegian aid funds, and we have no indications that there is any abuse. In the context of development, there is also a broader recognition that national ownership is a prerequisite for development. In particular, there is a growing understanding that assistance from different donors needs to be coordinated within a common framework. The decision of the OECD Development Committee on the decoupling of assistance last spring is important in this context. It will put developing countries in the driver’s seat. The increasing emphasis on developing countries developing national poverty strategies, on the need for donors to support their work, is an important step forward. However, there are still major challenges to ensuring implementation, not least in developing common requirements and procedures. As part of our efforts to achieve the best possible efficiency and concentration of our assistance, we have proposed a further review and reduction in the group of other cooperating countries and countries receiving support from regional allocations. Country elections are important to contribute to poverty reduction. By channelling our cooperation to countries where the effect is assumed to be greatest, and where we have a presence and comparative advantage to contribute, we will be able to get the most effect out of each krona. A guiding principle in our relationship with the main cooperation countries is that cooperation should be based on holistic thinking and long-term sustainability. We therefore need to give countries a thorough assessment when we include them in the group. There is a need for a more thorough review of Zambia’s status. The country's democracy is being put to the test at the presidential elections on 27 December this year, and we will come back to our assessments in relation to the Great Britain after that. We closely follow the developments in the peace process between Ethiopia and Eritrea. The peace process will enter a crucial phase in the next six months, and we will also focus on the review of this in relation to the assessment of whether we can get Ethiopia back into a main cooperation group, and not least on whether developments in the country are taking a positive direction in relation to democracy, political pluralism and the protection of human rights. Mali is qualified both according to poverty criteria and with regard to the situation of governance sets and its own development policies as a close co-operation country for Norway. In the light of the forthcoming elections in the country and after a detailed assessment of the comparative advantage Norway can have in order to contribute here, I will return to Mali’s status. With regard to the other countries mentioned in the referral, we will make a concrete assessment of the status of the countries on the basis of whether Norway has specific prerequisites for closer cooperation. As early as February, I will visit Rwanda and other countries in the conflict area around Great Lakes, the Great Lakes, along with my British, German and Dutch colleagues, and then get a better picture of the situation. It will provide the basis for the review we are going to do in this area, and then we will focus on the regional role and contribution to stability and the link between humanitarian transition and long-term cooperation. This will be the basis for the assessment for both Ethiopia and Rwanda. As the Committee and the European Parliament have requested, I will come back with a detailed assessment of all these issues and a report on the Storing of our assessments in relation to country elections in the context of the development policy presentation in spring 2002, in view of the follow-up to the 2003 State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e894	It's going to be line change, limited to three lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e898	I understand that with a large aid budget and many projects it is difficult to know and to be aware of everything going on. Nor can we, as an aid provider, take responsibility for everything that happens. I'll put that in the bottom. I would like to return to the assistance to the Palestinian self-government areas, because it is given to an area of the world that is very intense and where there are many conflicts that are latent. It may be appropriate to be extra careful with that assistance. Some of the assistance is provided in relation to education: school buildings, retraining and teacher training. As far as I know, it is not necessarily directly related to teaching material, but nevertheless to teaching in general. The aim of the funds is, inter alia, to: promoting respect for human rights and contributing to dialogue and understanding between different peoples. At the same time, much of the literature used contains very strong claims that do not contribute to this. When children are taught with that kind of material, in our opinion, it has long-term negative effects. I want to take a simple little example from a sixth-class textbook: there is no alternative to the destruction of Israel. These are strong claims. My questions to the Council of State will then be: Is it acceptable that this form of propaganda be used in the teaching of Palestinian children, a teaching largely funded, at least indirectly, from Norway? If the Council of State agrees with me that this is unacceptable, what will the Council of State do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e907	I can assure the representative, Mr Höglund, that precisely because the situation in the Palestinian territories and the Middle East is as intense and as difficult as the representative describes it as it is, we are particularly sensitive. We monitor the funds very closely. In fact, the National Audit Office has sent its own delegation to the Palestinian self-government areas, just to monitor how Norwegian aid has been used. The report they came back with was, in fact, that they did not find any criticism in the management of the Norwegian aid funds. Most people in Stortinget know the Riksrevision as being relatively careful. This means that we have been very careful in selecting sectors, in selecting areas of intervention and in choosing whom to cooperate with within the Palestinian authorities. Our people who, according to what we can judge, have done a very satisfactory job in this area. We have no indication that Norwegian aid has been misused. Then we have the question of education. One of the most important things to prevent conflicts and new spirals of violence in this area must, of course, be to support educational efforts, to provide children and young people with knowledge so that they can increase and improve their resources in order to take more responsibility for their own lives and families. When it comes to teaching materials, I have no indication that any of the teaching materials have been funded using Norwegian funds. On the contrary, we have tried to do this a little bit later in the seams, and as far as we are aware, it is not that Norwegian funds have been used for this. With regard to the content of the learning material, all nations in their sovereigns are entitled to choose the type of teaching material they want to use and the device on it. We don't have a chance to overdo it. But it is clear that these are issues that could be raised at a more political level, as part of a peace process dialogue with the Palestinian self-government authorities. In case the Minister of Foreign Affairs will have to be responsible for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e918	The support that is available to the population must be maintained at all times. Therefore it is good to see that the Peace Corps is now on the bed again. Now we need to learn from the errors one has done before. It was not for nothing that the Peace Corps was laid down a few years ago. From the point of view of the SV, we should learn from the work done by the Forum Syd in Sweden and the Central People's Cooperation in Denmark, in such a way that one suggests that parts of the activities of the Peace Corps become Norwegian voluntary organisations that engage in two-way exchanges, for example. youth groups over shorter periods of time. We must not forget the important people to the people-part of the aid, that a exchange of information, and that the Norwegian opinion is once again gaining knowledge about other countries. I know this part of the work of the Latin American groups in Latin America. Youth is there for six months, traveling around public high schools, in assemblies, and in trade shows, informing and displaying slides. One gets an unlikely amount again for a small amount of money. I want to ask the Council of State what kind of vision it has on the contents of the Peace Corps, and how one should organize it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e927	tRepresentant Jacobsen and I fully agree on the importance of creating and stimulating such an engagement among young people, and that's exactly why we wrote about the Peace Corps. The last thing I actually did right before I left as a state council last time was to put in place a new peace corps. From being a peace corps of relatively old experts — to say the least — with an average age of 45 years, which seemed to be the same to everyone else in the context of development, it became a peace corps of young enthusiastic people who undertake over time to do solidarity work where the exchange goes both ways. So for information for the Stortinget, we now have representatives from several developing countries who are here as peace corps in Norway. I think that's an exciting and funny new twist, with which we have very good experience. So the first one is right over here. When it comes to what I think the representative is actually dealing with, it's a little bit in the younger age group, because the age group for the Peace Corps is from 22 to 35. In my opinion, we must not weaken the main point of the Peace Corps, which is solidarity efforts over time, a little long-term commitment, not just an exchange back and forth over a few months. I want to keep the intention and the arrangement for the Peace Corps. But the government and I are concerned that we will get a solution for the youth programmes that are operating on a shorter exchange scheme. I can promise the representative we're working on in the department. We want to have a dialogue with the Norwegian National Council for Children's and Youth's organisations and other environments on how to find a solution in relation to the young age groups, which are around the ages and around 20. That means keeping the Peace Corps the way it is made, as a long-standing commitment of solidarity, over one to two years. But we're going to find a system in relation to the youngest groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e936	State Councillor Hilde Frafjord Johnson said in his speech that the war in Afghanistan is over. Yeah, is it really? The war was also "over" when the Soviets withdrew, but history has shown that the war is not over. With regard to Afghanistan, the situation is that the North Alliance has secured a solid foothold and that some within the alliance have expressed that foreign peace forces are not desirable on Afghan soil. This suggests that there are some who do not want peace, with full democracy. The fact that it now looks like you've got a temporary government consisting of several parties, can be a start, and I'll ask the Council of State what the Government will do to ensure that the victories that the international force has achieved have not been in vain. As you know, the war has led against terrorism and not against Afghanistan as a country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e945	I have to fix a little misunderstanding. I didn't say the war is over. I said that the US and the Allies are winning the war in Afghanistan. That's a difference. The representative is absolutely right that it is not over, and that major challenges remain for the international community and for the actors in Afghanistan. With regard to the comments in relation to the North Alliance's views on an international peace force, I think it has changed in a positive direction. But I think these are issues that the Foreign Minister might come back to, as this concerns the assessment of the situation in Afghanistan. So I can say a little bit about what I think is crucial to stabilising the situation and building up under the process that is now developing in the political field. It's that we don't repeat the mistakes that have been made before, that when the media disappears and the TV cameras go off, and the humanitarian actors and crisis actors disappear, the civilians are left to themselves. And then it takes a long time for development actors to come in, and then on a much smaller scale than what is needed. That is what has been called the gap in the international context, and there are a lot of people who have been in this gap for many years. What we now as international societies must be willing to do is to put up with a long-term effort in Afghanistan, and then I am talking about efforts in a number of areas. But reconstruction efforts may be one of the most important things — ensuring that we do not fail now by reducing the amount of effort. Then I think we can see that new conflicts occur. We need to take the long-term commitment seriously. It will require something from us, it will require something from very many other countries, and it will also require some of the amount of effort we are willing to put in. I would also like to say that this is not an effort to go beyond other regions of the world. We also have to be willing to set up there. That's why this will require a lot in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e956	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e959	In the Sem Declaration, the Co-operation Government states that Norway should pursue a development policy at the centre of poverty reduction. In order to achieve that objective, the budget of the year is a good step on the road, and it builds on, among other things. on the following three elements: 1st@item: inlistbox Norwegian development assistance shall be gradually increased to 1 pst. of gross national income by 2005.2. Developing countries need better access to markets in developed countries.3. Norwegian assistance should contribute more to strengthening the democratic institutions and processes of developing countries and contribute to their own economic growth, inter alia. through improved framework conditions for investment and industrial development. In the long term, the objective is to provide countries with increased revenues to finance their own development. The right is with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the work to increase development assistance to 1 pst. during the four-year period. The amount of aid is gradually reaching a significant level – also because the yield from the petroleum fund is included in gross national income, thus ensuring that oil revenue is included and provides the basis for a high level of assistance. The more important it is to pay close attention to the use of funds, focusing on effective administration and an ongoing evaluation of the results achieved. Performance measurements in the field of aid work are difficult but not less important for that reason. Since the main objective of Norwegian development policy is linked to the international development objectives, these will be an important reference framework for assessments of the achievement of results and the impact of our efforts. The right considers it important to further develop this work. The assessments to be made need to focus on whether the co-operation countries have pursued policies that are effective in relation to the international development objectives. Quantitative performance measurements based on internationally recognised indicators used by the cooperating countries themselves will be important. The evaluation of Norway’s contribution to poverty reduction in each country also needs to be based to a large extent on qualitative analyses, while at the same time working to further develop management objectives and follow-up procedures. With regard to the annual status reports that the Secretary-General of the United Nations will present to the General Assembly, it is right that one from Norway expects integrated reporting, where the international financial institutions also cooperate. The right underlines the importance of continuing to develop adequate indicators for individual international development objectives and that a continuous focus is on improvements to the procedures ensuring that the conclusions and recommendations of the evaluation reports are followed up. A high focus on financial management and performance will help to increase the legitimacy of the extended aid effort in the Norwegian community. In this way, it is more important to ensure that assistance has the expected impact for as many as possible in the recipient countries. The right is satisfied with the thematic effort and the geographical concentration to which the budget gives rise. Combating poverty involves a strong commitment to education, health and social services, the fight against HIV and AIDS and, at the same time, increasing the emphasis on human rights, strengthening the rule of law institutions and public administration systems. Norwegian aid policy appears to be on track and in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e988	Let me first take up proposal No. 3, which reads like this: ‘The Grand Duchy gives its consent under the Constitution § 25 to Norway's participation with voluntary military forces and equipment in the international coalition's fight against international terrorism, which has now begun in Afghanistan under the leadership of the United States under the authority of decisions of the United Nations Security Council.’.» As both the Right Party and the Labour Party have seen fit to doubt whether the Progress Party imposes any conditions to support this, I assume that they have noticed that this proposal for a decision does not contain any conditions at all. We will give our consent. I also want to mention that this kind of thing we think belongs in the staging room. It is clear that in confidential matters and in many cases it may be useful to consult the Storting through the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, but in major cases where it is not really something to be kept secret, it should be in Norway as in many other countries, to discuss it in the national assembly in plenary, and to take the necessary decisions. We are aware that there is disagreement as to the extent to which Section 25 of the Constitution requires and requires a decision and a mandate from Stortinget – a consent. We think that in order to sweep aside any doubt, one should rather give some consent too much than any consent too little. That is our position on this proposal. So to the interesting thing about funding. There it has become the view that this is so important that we should not talk about funding. We think it's important, too, but things are also sometimes important in Norway. For example, the President of the Right in the election campaign felt that securing the adopted defence structure was very important, that we had to ensure full funding of the defence according to the structure adopted in June, and when the Stoltenberg government presented its budget, the Right, to the extent I understood, felt that there was a lack of DKK 3 to 3.5 billion. The framework of the new government did not change this. So now, Councillor Frafjord Johnson said that what is being given in aid, humanitarian aid, should not go beyond other areas. Then it becomes interesting: how is this to be financed? Is that how we want to finance it in its entirety by reducing the government budget surplus for the next year – as is known at around 100 %. NOK 173 billion? When we want to finance other things in this way, it is said that it is in violation of the rule of action, so that you can do so per person. definition does not make. Is it so to understand that the rule of action does not limit the government’s funding – and that is the Government’s intention – of what has been offered, which can cost up to NOK 2 billion? Then it is interesting that suddenly the rule of action no longer applies. And then is the explanation, for example. the fact that this is money that is abroad is incurred abroad and has no impact on the Norwegian economy? If that is the reason why we are not going to apply the rule of action, it is that in principle we are going to say yes to our proposal for a foreign budget, just to keep out of the budgetary balance sheet assessments, expenditure incurred only in the rest of the world without any impact on the Norwegian domestic economy. It's also going to be interesting. But that's how we know it's not, because it's Norwegian forces, among other things. to be used and it has a direct impact on the Norwegian domestic economy. So at least that explanation can't be applied to what's going on with the salaries of those who are going to be in the forces. And if it's not going to go beyond other parts of the budget, what other methods are there left to increase taxes and taxes, if you're going to follow the rules of action? If it is not going to affect other parts of the defence budget, not other parts of the aid budget, is that when the school budget it is going to go down, is that the road budget it is going to go down? It would be interesting for Stortinget to know when the Stortinget is in the middle of the budgetary procedure, where, as I said, it is difficult to find both 10 and 15 million. in several committees. I think it's very interesting that none of the government parties, or the Workers' Party, even try to say how to finance something, just the same parties that are quick to talk about the limitations of the rules of action on the expenditure side, and otherwise they also talk about not increasing taxes and taxes. I think this is a remarkable idea, that you have no idea how to find $2 billion, while you're very ready to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1011	When SV has requested that this matter, which concerns whether Norway should contribute Norwegian forces under the US command to military action in Afghanistan, be addressed, it is because we disagree with what is the conclusion of the Great Britain majority, but it is also because we believe that matters of such importance should be dealt with in an open-ended magnificence. We have been in a similar situation for not so many years – then it was Kosovo that was up to us. If you were to sum up how Stortinget dealt with that matter afterwards, it was for treatment and voting in one big group before you decided to stand behind the threats of military action against Milosevic, if he did not act in relation to Kosovo, and the matter had not been dealt with in the main hall. There was a situation in which we believe that wholesale representatives individually and as a group should take a decision, and that is also the reason why we are today bringing this matter before the Storting. What happened in the situation around Kosovo was that one by one of the bigots representatives jumped and sprang around, and, after a while, really opposed it, and did not feel committed in any way to a matter that Norway had actually put itself behind. And that's what we see on SV's side can't be the situation. It is also necessary to consider serious international conflicts as a representative of the Gazette, and to express an opinion on what is right to do in such a situation, where the matter is at the forefront, as it was in Kosovo. Here I personally came to one conclusion, while in connection with Afghanistan I have come to another conclusion. In particular, in relation to the so-called major consequences that this case can have in its ultimate consequence, namely that military personnel can be put at the disposal, and where the consequences may be greater than the consequences of any other decision taken by this collapse, it is indeed important that the Storting also has this to deal with. So to what's the very concrete thing today. The government has for a long time made it clear that if you were asked by the United States to speak with forces, the government was prepared to do so. And that is really the request made through what was made to the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is being discussed, and which has been explained both by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and by the Minister for Defence. There is now a long list of different contributions that Norway has notified or wishes to notify the United States. It's everything from F16 aircraft – which you can only imagine being used in a continuing air war – to personnel who can clear explosives or assist in humanitarian action. What is SV's position is that we don't want to put Norwegian forces at the disposal of the US command to continue the air war in Afghanistan. Now, at the same time, this is a little yesterday's debate, because what we hope for is a political solution in Bonn, where we are very much in the middle of discussing how to put together an international security force, how to put together a possible UN force, how to secure humanitarian aid – and perhaps military aid is also needed to bring in humanitarian aid for the winter to parts of Afghanistan. In these areas, the SV wants Norway to be open to contribute. It requires a clear UN mandate. I'm not sure Norway will be asked to stand in a security force in Afghanistan now, it may be wiser to put it together differently, but it requires a clear UN mandate, and it requires a different command than a US command, preferably a United Nations command. Similarly, it will be in the case of potential UN forces that can come in on a long-term basis, because the most important thing now is that the world community does not do as before – bombs and goes. So the Storting has to remember, when you're so quick to sum this up as a so-called successful action, that you've driven the Soviets out of Afghanistan once before, and then forgotten Afghanistan and the groups of the United States and Pakistan themselves built up, and then became terrorist networks. These have hit the United States in this round, but they can also hit other countries. I would like to take up with this the suggestions that SV has distributed, and immediately draw me for a new post.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1026	Kristin Halvorsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. Otherwise, the President will have the benefit of seeing big business representatives roaming around, but it will come once, too!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1032	The representative, Halvorsen, has specialized in this with physical exercises for staging representatives. In a previous debate, the theme was 'jumping'; today it has been 'jumping', so it's exciting what's going to be the next challenge she's facing us with. Yesterday it was announced that Afghan groups are now some to form a transitional regime in Kabul. The participants at the Bonn conference were informed about a final document providing the basis for a government formation. So there's a deal about a transitional government. The last events give rise to optimism. It's not like that – and that's where I give the representative Halvorsen right – that it's a final solution that has been put forward, but it looks like it can now go against a solution. It shows that even if bombing was a difficult and controversial solution, it was unfortunately necessary – there was no other credible option. And that's in the area of the problem that the representative Halvorsen is doing in relation to the US command, what kind of strengths it should be osb., is difficult. I am coming home today from a meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and one of the problems that a person has been dealing with in Kosovo, which is in a way the reason why it was as it was this time, was that one has had a problem with the command structure. For one through all of these bodies, bin Laden may have been given the opportunity to regroup and initiate new actions before something is actually done – just because there is such a big device to start. For this reason, it is sometimes actually necessary that NATO, on the basis of Article 5, and also the UN – as they have done this time – have agreed that one can have another type of force doing this job, and I did not think that the representative Halvorsen and SV have taken inwards. Therefore, it is quite right what the Government has done. When there's a wish that Norway should provide strengths, we have to. There is a clear sequence of NATO membership and Article 5. One for all and one-principle is a guarantee that provides security and of course must also apply when we are to contribute. Furthermore, there is no reason to change the practice that one has had when it relates to the Government’s powers in the kind of foreign policy issues. It is quite right that it is wise to debate such major issues in the Storting, so that one can have a fundamental discussion about them, but at the same time removing the powers of the Government to make the necessary decisions would be wrong. It would also be wrong today to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen. It would institutionalise a new practice that, when the Government is to act in critical international situations, one must first go to plenary. It's after Christian People's Party's opinion wrong. So we're going to go against it. The international challenges may appear unbounded. Distance between rich and poor increases. In spite of a dark wallpaper, there are still some points of light, and we must never say that it doesn't work. If we have to build and run a school with money from aid, drill a well or vaccinate children in Africa, this is an example of its utility. 30 million people are being helped every year out of poverty. Too many people work leads to lasting change, to a life of meaning and to a life of freedom. A goal is that developing countries themselves can use their own resources. It is better to enable people to develop than to enable development for people. An important key in this work must always be education and education. In fact, it turns out that the best aid is to invest in primary education for girls. Maybe there's something in the saying that if you train a man, you train a man, but if you train a woman, you train an entire family. As part of the efforts to improve the quality of assistance, we have reduced the number of other co-operative countries and countries receiving support over regional commitments in the supplementaryproposal. This is for better coordination and pooling of resources. And it'll also give you better counting for each of these heads. I am pleased with the broad opening-up it is about this budget, and I will conclude by commending the Labour Party and the Leader of the Committee for the way he has dealt with the foreign policy situation, and for the way in which they have taken responsibility in the face of the debate between the Government and the Magnificence. One actually has a line. I think there's a reason to give credit for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1049	Kristin Halvorsen had a rather strange representation of the Stortinget’s hold on the Norwegian effort in Yugoslavia and Kosovo. It was not correct. The size fully supports that action. If anyone jumped and jumped, at least it wasn't anything that affected the Storting's hold. The debate today is in a way a summary of the debate of many weeks and months. I think it is good that we have a debate in plenary on the efforts in Afghanistan, including on the Norwegian contribution to the strength. But we have had debates in plenary on Afghanistan before. The Prime Minister has even given a statement on Afghanistan. But, as I said, it is good that we have a public debate in plenary in the Stortinget. We see that there is a lot of interest among our co-representatives in this debate, and that is an eye-catching interest from the media. But after all, we get it down in the protocols, so that what has been said is mandatory, and that's the most important thing. The debate has given the impression that the financial contributions or payments to Afghanistan’s operations are comparable to those of this or the other kind. Thorbjørn Jagland commented on it, but I think the most important thing to establish here is that this is an abnormal situation that no one has found to circumvent the budget rules or budgetary decisions of the Stortinget. There's an abnormal, critical situation, and the majority in Stortinget says we'll deal with this when the government comes back with a proposal. It's cork more or less than that. No one wants to discover new Afghanistan conflicts just to circumvent self-imposed budgetary restrictions in large and government. The management of this issue is in safe tradition with how we have handled previous issues, and perhaps the most important thing about the debate is that it determines that this is the way that corruption and government manages international operations like this. It builds on a secure practice, such as the Foreign Minister, Thorbjørn Jagland and others have underlined, no last Jon Lilletun. It is this that has given the Norwegian Government the opportunity to act clearly and with the strength of international organisations to express the Norwegian duties and Norwegian contributions. Now, some may be tempted to think that if one votes against the proposal of Carl I. Hagen, if the Stortinget is against it, one also votes against Norwegian strength. Of course it's not like that, and that certainly doesn't mean Carl I. Hagen it is. If one is opposed to Norwegian contributions to Afghanistan, the SV shall vote in favour of the proposal. Nor does the Storting. The size joins with the government's arrangement through what the majority express in this plenary debate. If we had wanted to make a contribution, Norway would also have to make a reservation at a much earlier time. The logical thing for Carl I. Hagen and others would have been to make sure to summon the Greatness in plenary all early in September, so that the Government knew where the Greatness was already standing when NATO dealt with this question. It is not that the Government has acted with footnotes in the UN or NATO. It would be if the Government were to retain the budget coverage, the means of recovery or a decision in plenary in the Stortinget. But there's no such footnote in the government's handling, and two different governments have handled this with certain that there is a plurality in the Stortinget behind the line that Norway has stood for, behind Norway's participation in the NATO decision under Article 5, behind that we have said that we want to contribute forces if we have something that fits in, and if there is a need for it. This has been the Norwegian line. This has allowed two governments to act clearly and with strength without footnotes. I also hope that we don't have to introduce the kind of footnotes that obviously Carl I. Hagen may be interested in, through a vote on the proposal he has today. That's why I think this debate is actually pretty straightforward in clarifying what is the way of dealing with this kind of issue in the Stortinget. Otherwise, I think – and then I refer to the last thing I said about the treatment in NATO – it would also be just as neat if SV had made notice of what is SV's position in that very context, that one wants Norway out of NATO, and that one thus also does not feel obliged in relation to decisions in NATO, cork in this or in other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1068	Let me first be glad to note that there is a large majority in the Stortinget that supports the strength offered by the Norwegian Government. The majority consists of the government parties, the Workers' Party and – as explained by the Progress Party – the Progress Party. That Mr. Hagen also wanted us in this round to have answered more questions related to the aging and allocations, I respect, and understand. I understand, however, that he does not do the main thing, namely, the offer to the Americans, depending on exactly this, and thus I find a broad majority behind what the Government has wanted to do in this matter and invited the Stortinget to respond to. The party that is so far outside is SV, but it does not affect that it is a broad majority. I must admit that from time to time I have, if not wondered, so at least registered that SV has been much more concerned with what not to do in the fight against terrorism than what to actually do. If you go back in the debate, since September 11th, the concentration has been about what you shouldn't do. Had you followed the advice, which the government has not chosen to do, I think you would quickly get into a paralysis of action. That also means that what Kristin Halvorsen today is pleased about, namely that it now seems to be a political solution in Afghanistan, it would be difficult to achieve. It would be hard to get that far. I registered with great interest that the Central Party, which at an early stage demanded a bomb stop, now finds that the assumptions of the majority at that time have now been met. That means that at that point there was an assessment that I think we should all be happy not to have reached through in the majority of the Storting. With regard to the future of Afghanistan, I made that point in my speech earlier today, and I have also explained it earlier in the Grand Duchy. But at the same time, with as thick lines as I can, I want to underline the difficulty of what we are now facing. Clearly, Afghanistan has been a country contrary to itself for many decades, with some very serious conflicts that have cost many people their lives. It is also a country that is not notoriously easy to influence and control from outside. That means that it's the facilitating roles that are in many ways the right ones and the important ones. But that in the future we will have very many challenges related to Afghanistan, I am not in doubt for a moment. There's no reason to believe that things are quickly solved. One of the things that might have been put back very much after the UN trial of the case was the warning from the UN Special Envoy that there was no kind of quick fix in Afghanistan, as he said. It's definitely not. It also underlines the point that Åslaug Haga also made, which I believe is very important, namely that now the United Nations Member States must not forget the conflict and leave the United Nations alone with all the problems and then run into new conflicts. It is important that we learn from what happened in the 1990s, when the outside world largely forgot the conflict in Afghanistan, and everything in many ways was out of public attention. I think that lesson is now clearer and clearer this time. When Norway took on the leadership of The Afghan Support Group, which I now believe will prove to be a very important and important task, Norway took on it in a situation where public attention to Afghanistan was not what it is now. So it was the coincidences that led us in many ways into the world's search light here. However, Norway was willing to accept this in a situation where the outside world’s searchlight was not aimed at Afghanistan. In this way, I want to give flowers and honey to the then political leaders who took this on their behalf in Norway. I think it was important and right that it was done. So I shouldn't say too much about the formality in dealing with these issues. I have said in my article earlier today what I think is the right thing to do, which also matches what I think is a reasonable way to do it all. As Haakon Blankenborg was just about to do, this is after all the sunmarks found through the decisions Stortinget makes today. Then it is once again confirmed how Stortinget wants to approach these questions. The only thing I want to add is that for me, the proposals of the Progress Party are somewhat unclear, to say it carefully. Because I'm not quite sure if the Progress Party argues for what they think would be a desirable way to do it. The first line from Carl I. Hagen to Thorbjørn Jagland suggested it, because he used the expression what was ‘reasonable’ to do. But when you see the wording of the proposal, you get the impression that here you also think that this is legally necessary. The last thing I think is definitely not the case. There is no particular doubt as to what the formal rules mean, namely that the practice of the Storting has now been applied throughout the 1990s, is also what is formally correct. However, the reference to Section 25 of the proposal in itself may not take account of that issue, but that it is a kind of attempt to change what is practice, in other words, by establishing it in the form of decisions. When it comes to the fact that the conditions of competence are laid down in the Constitution – in the form of the Constitution – I would like to remind you that it is at least not unproblematic to change the conditions of competence through plenary decisions. That's why I have to say that the argument is at best not very clear. It was also further underlined that Hagen used the word consent as an argument how many times the word was mentioned in the Constitution. Of course, it's a completely irrelevant relationship. The question is how this is mentioned in the Constitutional Law, and I feel absolutely sure that the interpretations that the Stortinget has used in the past, and that I have also built on, are correct in this case, but they are also reasonable. So a few words about the Middle East. I think we must take as a starting point, unfortunately, that the situation we are now seeing is very, very serious and very, very dramatic. The terrorist attacks that we've seen recently, we've taken a clear distance from, and it should just be lacking that we're not making this very clear right now. When innocent people are killed that way, we have to say from. We have also expressed our condolences to the Government of Israel and the families involved. I strongly believe that Yasir Arafat could have done more and should have done more to go after the guilty in such cases. But what is important for us now is that there is a danger of further escalation and escalation. When you know how innocent people on both sides are killed, and how the situation may now evolve out of the controllable, it must be the task of the outside world to avoid further escalation, try to dampen the situation, try to get the parties to resume the political processes and at the same time tell the parties that the road map that the Mitchell Commission drew is the road map you have to follow. Thorbjørn Jagland was a member of the Mitchell Commission, and the Mitchell Commission has done one to my discretion. So it's our job now to make sure that the parties get back from the edge of the ground and start talking again and trying to dampen the violence, and make sure it doesn't go any further. That gives us a very special way of working. But when you see how people are killed on both sides, it must be the most important thing for us to do here. We are not just commentators, we are also political actors, and then we must act accordingly. So just two-three words in conclusion about the WTO, as Åslaug Haga said. We have had the debates in Doha. The majority has previously provided a framework for those negotiations. I dare say that the final document that was adopted there and that has then given the starting point for the next process is within the framework that the Stortinget drew up. I'm not quite sure how I could perceive Åslaug Haga, but I got the impression that you almost want to check the frames and the document that was put there. I feel that we from Stortingets got the necessary clearances to go the way we have gone. And that will be something that, if you succeed in the next round, will be of great joy and importance to the developed countries, and not least to the developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1091	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1094	I am not going to go into the Minister of Foreign Affairs' assessment of how the Minister of Foreign Affairs believes that the Storting should interpret the Constitution and its own relationship with the Constitution – we have been through before, and we may come back to that – but I would like to ask a question about this with the funding, which also affected the Minister of Foreign Affairs. What the Progress Party, among other things, is actually asking what the Government thinks. The government itself has indicated that it will be further financed. That is the expression that I have heard from several members of the government in several places, that the funding should be further financed. And then we asked, what does that mean? ‘Additional finance’, we first interpreted as providing additional funding to reduce only the State budget’s surplus. It is an additional appropriation – new, fresh money. And then we're very happy with it, but then the government itself has blacked out that it's uncertain. It is the government itself that has created the uncertainty, rather than making it clear that yes, this will not affect either increased taxes or other budget chapters. It itself has kept the possibility open to all forms of funding. And when I haven't received an answer from government councils that I've asked, either by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, which I've asked in another forum, I might ask him – it's probably a little on the edge, sir. President, but there are some others who have done so before, among other things. a former Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is now here – as the Right-Chairman: Can the Right-Chairman confirm that there is no need to increase any taxes and taxes to finance the expenditure that will be incurred to participate in the international coalition's fight against terrorism?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1101	The representative, Mr. Hagen, is well aware that it was the Minister for Foreign Affairs who made a statement, and it is Minister for Foreign Affairs, Jan Petersen, who gets the floor to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1104	Just as long as I get to, I, the president can decide who I'm going to go to. I would like to say two things: when Hagen first talks about it purely formal here, I am very concerned that we are aware of the formal questions. Not least, the Government must ensure that it handles and remains within the rules that apply at all times. As I prepared it in my introduction today morning, I am pretty sure of what is the correct purely legal. It is a competence laid down in the Constitution, which cannot be changed by plenary decisions. But it's a complicated debate. We have had many discussions about how these things affect each other, including: how practices are to be developed, but it is very important to be formal on a secure basis. I haven't got so all the world's guidance in other ways to think about just from Mr. Hagen, because I think it's quite confusing to what extent he's talking about how things should have been, and how they are actually. There are two issues that, when you're concerned about formal things, you have to keep very clear of each other. And it should not be a problem to keep them apart, so I am a little surprised that there is no greater clarity in that during the day. When it comes to the very question of allocation, I know very well what Hagen is asking about, because he's asked about this a lot of times earlier, and that's how we, to the seventh and last, are going to pay the expenses that are here. Now that we haven't started aging itself, it's because it's so much unclear, for example. What size we're talking about here, that we haven't invited the Storting to any award decisions in this round. This is also in line with previous practice in this area. Expenditure during the year will evolve very differently, and I will return to the aging of these things when we present the balancing proposition. But I think Hagen can take it relatively calmly if he needs preliminary guidance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1113	What the Government today has to do today is to report various military Norwegian forces to any participation in military actions in Afghanistan under US control. So, in this case, it's about Afghanistan, but this situation is, of course, about to be part of yesterday's issues. There are other issues that are far more topical in Afghanistan in the future. Now, the government's determination can either mean that they want to put their political support into practice with the United States all the way through, in fact, making very concrete proposals on, for example, the United States. using F16 aircraft, or it may be prepared to allow these actions to be moved to other countries. And it's been speculated on in American media, for example. by the fact that there are now certain environments that call for this to be successful in Afghanistan, let us continue in Iraq, in Sudan, in Somalia, in Yemen and elsewhere where there may be parts of terrorist networks. Then I wonder what is the Norwegian Government's position on whether it is wise or not. I see that both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are making sure that if there are any other countries in which this can be done, the Stortinget will have to be reconsulted. But does the government think it's wise? Then I would like the Foreign Minister's comment on what is today in the evening post, namely whether it is time for Norway to lead an international force in Afghanistan. Norway has a huge commitment in the Balkans, which we are now carrying out, and questions can well be asked about how much Norway’s international capacity really is. I would like to have the Foreign Minister's assessment of exactly that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1120	I think it's important to keep track of what we've actually invited Stortinget to. What we've invited Stortinget to, it's about anti-terrorism. It's about the actions that are now taking place in connection with Afghanistan – what we call in or by, if I don't remember the documents completely wrong. It's not a fight against Afghanistan. It's a fight against bin Laden and his supporters, and when it's going on in Afghanistan, it's because bin Laden has just been able to use territory in Afghanistan. That Afghanistan is the physical place is because it was bin Laden. It's not a fight against Afghanistan. I think it's important to remember that. So there's a question of whether this can be moved to other countries, and whether it's wise. To that end, what we're now inviting Storting is the geographical indication that I've now given. If there is a need, which I have no reason to speculate in, to go elsewhere, the Storting will of course get this matter over again. But I think you should dampen those speculations. I think it's very important that we don't now get involved in a debate like this, but we're dealing with this on the basis of something that's concrete. And we don't have any reason to come with that. It's clear that it's after bin Laden you are, and I just want to mention now that if bin Laden were to stay somewhere else, it's not like he's on a temporary basis. I think I'll make that very clear. But it has not been said that it is wise to go in anywhere. It has to be assessed in detail. As for the last question that Kristin Halvorsen asked, I just want to say that once the Prime Minister has spoken, it's because you can't cut off things you haven't seen so far. But I'll assume that the probability of this is very, very small. The difficulty level is also of such a nature that we need to work very closely with it if you were to go into it at all. So I think at that point you have to assume that this is probably more of a question of keeping theoretical options up than actually something that is actually going to show up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1131	Norway and Israel have good links. Norwegian and Israeli labour movements have had and have long-standing friendships. In addition to very many other organizations, Israel has a peace movement and ten Palestinian representatives in the Knesset National Assembly. We now know that the peace movement and the Palestinian parliamentarians are under extra pressure for the time being. One of them, Azmi Bishara, comes to Norway next week, and more in Norway is concerned about his situation, among others. The Palestine Joint Committee. One wonders what happens when Israel, who rightly also talks about its democracy many times, uses words as treason and taking immunity from a parliamentarian. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister how Norway can take an initiative to ensure that these two groups, the peace movement and the Palestinian parliamentarians, are not marginalised.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1142	I took note of the question, and it was quite likely that the peace movement and the Palestinian parliamentarians should not be marginalised. I have to admit that I'm not quite sure what that question involves in practice. But of course I'm going to study the question more closely, without now I can give any answer right above the table. What's our overwhelming task right now is to make sure that the parties, i.e. the Palestinian Self-Government and the Israeli Government are now trying again to get in touch with each other and to implement the Mitchell Commission’s recommendations. It has first priority for us right now. This situation is so dramatic that I am asking for understanding that it is the most important thing at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1149	I would just like to follow up a little on the question of the possibilities for action in other countries to be taken in the fight against international terrorism. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has today stressed, as he has done before, that if it becomes relevant to use Norwegian military forces in other geographical areas, one will return to Stortinget. It was just supposed to be missing, that's what it's supposed to be. I am probably one of those who sees with considerable concern the development of an attack in other countries, which has been mentioned – countries that will have a completely different international political legitimacy from that of the regime in Afghanistan. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is very specific: if you consider going to action in other countries, then it is the Foreign Minister's position that it will require new mandates from the UN, or it is believed that what is available per year. today, is sufficient?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1158	Councillor Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1161	I have to admit that it's been a very long time since I've been using my jus -- scary a long time ago, so I guess I'm no longer a lawyer, but a cand.jur. However, if you are to comment on a specific matter, you should at least know the fact that the legal rules are to be applied. And as long as you don't have a fact of applying a UN decision, it's almost impossible now to get involved in and theorize about this issue -- so I'm sorry. The parallel is maybe a little bit limp, but I think it shows how I think here. It is not possible to engage in a debate on a ‘dersomat’ basis. It's a set of facts that have to vote with a warrant if you're going to be able to go further. But I think that actually is the smallest question if you get that far. If you get that far, it will be the concrete political assessments that will be quite important. In that way, I think you should be very careful to express yourself about what is wise or not. That's what was some of the contents of Kristin Halvorsen's line to me. By and large, Kristin Halvorsen has always told us what is wise. Then you've done the opposite, and then it turns out to be going pretty well anyway. I think that such ifsomat-wvisomat debates provide relatively little guidance. Now the Stortinget is invited to join in a strong contribution to action in and at Afghanistan, as it says. That's what we agreed to, that's what's at the heart of the matter. Now, if we're going to discuss all the other things, it's just an expression that the Storting ends up quite unanimously about us in this, and I'm grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1168	It is clear that within the framework of our parliamentary policy rules of governance, the Government has had full support all along. It has been manifested both in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee and in other debates here in the Chamber. As far as the constitutional legal management system is concerned, it is our opinion that the letter of the Constitution is relatively clear. Then consent from Stortinget is required. But we're full of different interpretations and practices that haven't been like this. However, we feel that there may be doubts. I have earlier today allowed myself to quote from the book on the relationship between government and big business, by Professor Per Stavang, where he mentions Section 25, which is a paragraph that requires the explicit consent of Storting. So here's the shared views. When it is clear that there is political support and majority support, why should the formal mandate also not be given by a decision? We think that's a little weird, no matter what's been practice. That is why we have made a clear proposal, so that there should be consistency between the two management systems. So to the second question. The Minister of Foreign Affairs would not say anything about the method of financing and how it should be. The reason we have asked is that we have been negotiating with the Government about the budget, and then we have been presented that we have no more money. There is no room – no matter how good the purpose is, there is no room – for more money. We don't have any more. The rule of action prevents us. That is why there is a relevant question: does the same rule of action apply to the financing of expenditure to participate in the international coalition against terrorism, or does it not apply to the rules of action in that particular area? That's when we asked, why doesn't it apply there?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1177	The President has made a formal mistake by naming the Minister of Foreign Affairs as the Council of State. The President takes self-criticism and now gives the floor to Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1180	I don't know about sir. Hagen needs it confirmed from my side, but I am not in doubt about what he has asked. I guess I've been doing that for the last couple of weeks -- to tell you what it is. My answer is still the same. But I have to say that in terms of the more formal things, I'm not quite sure if his line was particularly informative. I just want to remind you that it is not enough just to read the letter of a provision. The letter interpretation is often more popular outside the law than inside the law, just to mention it. And that's within the law we're now talking, which is what the rules of law are. However, in the case of the statements that the approval of the Storting is required, yes, the approval of the Storting is required according to Section 25 in a number of areas. That's not what there's disagreement about. What there is disagreement is in what areas it requires the approval of the Storting. It is not the case that the approval of the Storting is required in all possible areas. That's the whole point. In connection with Section 25, we have to distinguish where it is required and where it is not required. If it is that the approval of the Storting is not required for this in the form of a formal decision, it is not correct when Mr. Hagen says that a formal decision can then be taken for safety reasons. Because it indicates that there is a little vague thought about what is legally required here, and what one wants in particular in the form of a resolution. So it's just that indifference in relation to the formal questions here that have made me very uncertain about how to interpret Hagen's posts, and I have to say that the indifference still persists.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1190	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1193	In a concrete assessment of the possible release of strength in Afghanistan operations, there is an international coalition of States participating in the fight against international terrorism following the terrorist attacks against the United States on 11 September 2001. In Resolution 1368, the United Nations Security Council confirmed the United States’ right to individual and collective self-defence in accordance with Article 51 of the United Nations Charter and established that the estimates are a threat to international peace and security. Furthermore, the NATO Council has triggered the obligations under the Atlantic Treaty Article 5. The military operations aimed at the terrorist network al-Qaeda and the Taliban movement comply with international law, and there is no evidence that there is any obstacle to Norway's participation in various types of military operations in relation to the situation in Afghanistan, whether under the command of the Allied Foreign State or under the United Nations, as long as the Storting agrees. In this context, it is considered that these operations are anchored in decisions taken by international organisations of which Norway is a member. In this case, it would mean that the efforts are being made within the limits and for the purposes set out in Resolution 1368 for 2001 and subsequent relevant resolutions adopted by the United Nations Security Council. So how to fund participation. There are four options: either by redeploying within the budget framework to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or by using oil money, or by increasing taxes and charges, or by reducing supply to the population. Here the Government must state clearly where the money is to be taken from. We're not depending on the amount, we have to get back to that when we know how much is needed. Then it is that when the Progress Party makes proposals in relation to the budget, there is no way of how bad it will be with interest rate growth, inflation and what is worse. But when it comes to spending money on operations in Afghanistan, and here we're talking about a billion or more, yes, there's no problem with finding money. Understand the one who can. Now neither the United States nor Norway are waging war against Afghanistan or Islam, but against the terrorist network al-Qaeda and the Taliban movement, headed by Osama bin Laden. In this regard, the Government has been thinking about what to do if it turns out that bin Laden, for example. have managed to get to Iraq or Libya? The answer is well: the time, the sorrow. But there are important questions of principle that should be resolved. Finally, in the fight against international terrorism, I personally cannot see any difference between the suicide bombs that hit civilians, whether in the United States or in Israel. The international community must react and take away from such suicide actions, no matter what country it affects. It should not be such that the size of a country determines the extent to which Norway should react. A country that protects terrorists must assume that its leaders are held responsible for the acts of terrorism. With regard to the Middle East conflict, it is clear that the leader of the Palestinians, Arafat, has a responsibility, and questions can be asked whether it is PLO or Hamas who is now leading the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1210	We have debated for a good four-hour period on the budget and Afghanistan and on the challenges associated with it. There has been little discussion on the budget, much more on the formal and the constitutional issues related to, among other things. Paragraph 25 of the Constitution, etc. But there are at least four issues that have been clarified by the debate. Firstly, the government has received solid support for its policy relating to Afghanistan, as well as for the offer we are now making relating to operations in Afghanistan. I stress Afghanistan, not Afghanistan. It's against the terrorist regime, against bin Laden and against al-Qaeda we fight, not against Afghanistan as a nation. Secondly, there is solid support for practice in dealing with such issues in the Storting. There has been broad support for that way of dealing with this, and I think that is superfluous. There has been a long tradition in Norway as to how to deal with such issues. I'm going to promise that I'm not going to make it a habit to quote former workers' party people in this room, but Trygve Bratteli once said that if a small country is divided into important foreign policy issues, this small country is actually prevented from operating foreign policy. And it's part of the essence of all of this, that we've been using the conversation, that we've been using the consultation system, just so that as a nation we can be active in foreign policy. The third point raised in the debate is that the Progress Party has changed its view. The representative Carl I. Hagen himself stated that related to Section 25 of the Constitution, the party has changed its view. I have read throughout the debate related to the 1990 Gulf War, and not once has § 25 been used as an argument. It has come up now, and I would like to stress that a majority in the Grand Duchy is clear against the interpretation that the Progress Party here puts up. It would be unfortunate, according to what I said, to have such debates, and such – one might say – voting in the main hall, linked to this. I believe that in the long term it will make Norwegian foreign policy more difficult. What is also important is that the Progress Party and the representative Carl I. Hagen, although they have to a large extent attached this to Section 25, talked throughout the debate about – I think it was five or six times – how to cover this in the budget. It's a derailment of the whole debate. It is obvious that we do not even know whether this equipment will be used. We do not know if it is received. We've just made an offer, and then you see what these guys might want to use it, they're going to use it. Of course, we'll come back in the next round and make sure you get a cover. But it is a little sought if Norway's contribution to this conflict is really to be made into a question of balancing the budget. It'll be a little bit special. The fourth is that one party is predictable in this debate, and that is SV. I have reviewed what SV has claimed in many debates in the United Kingdom, relating to issues of international policy. They've been against it. They were opposed to submitting K/V 'Andenes' in connection with the Gulf War, which in its argument is completely all right. They've done what they've done. Then you can disagree with them as such, but they have at least been consistently linked to this. In this way it has been quite clarifying to listen to the debate. So finally – before I go down from the pulpit – a little bit to the suggestions. As far as Morten Høglund's proposal to stop all financial support to the Palestinian self-government authorities is concerned, I must say that a proposal cannot be made at a more wrong time. The world needs something completely different than that, so that's what we're voting against. Carl I. Hagen's proposal we have justified why we are going to vote against. In the case of Kristin Halvorsen and SV's proposal No. 1, if not to put Norwegian forces at their disposal, I wonder if it can also be interpreted further. It could be good to get Kristin Halvorsen's answer to that. I also read it so that next time it can promote our humanitarian efforts, because Hercules aircraft in Afghanistan can come under the command of the United States. I don't expect that that's what's meant, but it can be perceived this way. As regards SV's proposal No. 2, related to this with military courts, the Right believes that fundamental legal certainty should be established in all respects, and we should keep international conventions in all contexts. That is why we are also voting against this proposal because it is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1239	Quotes from workers' party representatives are usually good, so the representative is cordially welcome to continue quoting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1242	As regards Oddvard Nilsen's reasons for voting against SV's proposal No. 2, I have to say, I'm wondering. It is a proposal that has been promoted because we want to focus our attention on the international legal order – which should be strengthened and not weakened, as difficult as the world is now – and because as far as we can see, the proposals to a military court proposed by President Bush are under strong debate in the United States. And there are great questions about fundamental legal certainty, such as that. have been ratified by the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights. So it would be very important if this decision could be taken today. And I think it is also in line with what Foreign Minister Petersen has publicly argued, that he does not know what the United States has specifically proposed, but that Norway naturally adheres to the UN Conventions. If this is turning open the doors, I invite the Storting to join in and turn on just this door, because it can have quite a meaning. So to a couple of other things that have been up in the debate. I think it is reassuring to see that in many other countries there is a discussion about it, for example. it is wise to go to military action in Iraq if there is any link between al-Qaeda, any terrorist or its like, because it can be shown that bin Laden and al-Qaeda are in Afghanistan. In Germany, for example: they strongly object to such a logic and strongly warn against it. But the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs will have no position on it – until the United States probably has a position on it. At least it must be possible to ask the Norwegian authorities and the Norwegian Government to participate in the debate on what is wise and what is unwise to do further in the fight against terrorism. There is a debate that goes loud in many other countries, and that Norwegian authorities should also have. Because it is quite right that the representative Haga was in a previous line, that in the case of this will be a completely different and much more controversial action, even for those who are now allyed in the fight against terrorism. Among them are many who have just warned against this. So some of the things that Oddvard Nilsen was about to end up with. I tried to clarify some of the dilemmas that could arise in connection with military actions in Afghanistan, precisely from the humanitarian issues that we see can be overcome. Of course, we are prepared by SV to use Norwegian material, for example. transporting emergency aid to areas that may soon have been cut off, both because the roads are miserable and because the snow comes — and there may be other types of situations. I want to clarify, as I did in my first post, that what SV's proposal is aimed at is contributing to the continuation of the air war that the United States is still conducting in Afghanistan. I have the Foreign Minister's and Defence Minister's words that if it becomes appropriate to extend the war to other countries, the Stortinget will be re-consulted. With regard to the security forces that are now needed during a transitional period in Afghanistan, it is important that Norway contributes if we can do something sensible, and based on an overall assessment of what it makes sense for Norway to contribute internationally – but it is of course important that it is with a clear UN mandate and not under a US command, as the war has been until now. In the long term, it is likely that the UN forces will also have to enter Afghanistan. Norway should also be open to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1253	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1 and the matter on the supplementary agenda. [[See pages 638 and 639]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1269	There is a broad consensus on svalbard policy, and therefore there is no need for many comments or a long debate on the Svalbard budget for next year. On the other hand, we stand in many ways at a crossroads for our management of Svalbard as there is reason to stop at a moment. The introduction of local democracy also at Svalbard is a milestone for the community and helps to make life – and business – at Svalbard a little more ‘normal’ and like life on the mainland. The first choice was made earlier in the fall, and from the turn of the year, Longyearbyen will take over local government and at the same time take over ownership of Svalbard Society AS. This gives the residents both an influence on the service offer locally and a responsibility for the business. This is a natural and proper development, and it will be interesting and exciting to follow this development next year and in the years to come. This will undoubtedly give Stortinget the opportunity to come back to it. The Svalbard budget will increase by more than 47 million next year. kr. This is mainly the result of the reorganisation, as the grant to Svalbard Society AS was previously granted over the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade but now exceeds the Svalbard budget. There's also another important event next year. Act on environmental protection at Svalbard enters into force. It will end a longer period of temporary measures and contribute to ensuring a holistic approach to environmental protection in the vulnerable and vulnerable areas constituting Svalbard. The implementation and follow-up of this law by the Ministry must be very important in the coming period, as the Co-operation Government also attaches great importance to it. Of course, environmental considerations are also important when deciding on future coal operations on Svalbard. However, that case is not part of the Svalbard budget and is dealt with in another committee. So I'm not going to comment on this. Also that matter will Stortinget quite soon get back to. In addition, a case deserves special attention in the time to come, and unlike the one relating to local government and the Environmental Protection Act, this is a matter that has not been resolved. It's about the energy situation in Longyearbyen. It goes without saying that failure of energy supply in such a climate-affected area can have major consequences. It would simply not be possible to operate if the power plant or district heating system were to fail. We know that there is a great need for investment in this area if we are to be able to ensure ourselves against failure in parts or all of the energy supply. The co-operation management has proposed an additional 5 million. NOK to get this work started. Based on the studies available, this will only be the beginning of a larger process. That's exactly why it's important to get started. During the Storting treatment last year, it was assumed that a solution had been found to the energy supply and district heating issue and its costs in good time before the local government would take over. So it hasn't happened. It just increases the need for it now to be properly addressed. A unanimous committee asks the Government to investigate the possibility of conversion to a renewable energy system in Longyearbyen. The Committee assumes that the Longyearbyen district heating network will also have a central place in a future renewable energy system and that the investments launched by the Cooperative Government are necessary irrespective of the energy system. The Foreign Affairs Committee shall also examine the budget of the Norwegian Polar Institute. It rarely creates the big disagreement. That's the situation this year. The Committee therefore has no specific comments on the Polar Institute’s budget for the following year. With this I recommend the vote on the Svalbard budget and proposals for the allocation of Chapters 1471 and 4471, the Norwegian Polar Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1295	The Committee is unanimous, and it also appears that the way in which the Government follows up the notification and work on Svalbard is positive. I'm going to link my post to two short terms. The first relationship is what has been said about the energy supply. I would like to point out that the Government regards the appropriations mentioned in the cancellation as an initial contribution to the upgrading and maintenance necessary for the energy supply in Longyearbyen. I have also noticed that the Foreign Affairs Committee in its position is concerned about the issue of conversion to a renewable energy system in Longyearbyen, and I can assure you that the Government also focuses on this. In cooperation with Longyearbyen, we will investigate the alternatives available to the use of energy sources other than coal and diesel, and in particular the possibility of using wind power. I'm going to Svalbard in the middle of January next year, and will, among other things, use the opportunity to visit the Energy Agency in Longyearbyen. So a brief comment: it happens that both politicians and state councillors meet themselves at the door. I do that – literally – in connection with the next comment. On 5 March 2000, as Minister of Justice, I decided that the Polar Department in the Ministry of Justice should be closed down and placed under another department in the Ministry. I have now come to the conclusion that this was a crazy decision. I have come to the conclusion that it is right that the Polar Department should be maintained, and of course it is right to inform the Storting about it. The reason for this is that Norwegian administration in the northern regions is becoming increasingly interested, and it appears that the central parties to the Svalbard Treaty have made enquiries which show that there is a high level of attention in the exercise of Norwegian svalbard policy. There is also agreement between the departments concerned and bodies on the need for coordination of polar issues, and Norway needs to demonstrate externally that the emphasis is placed on squalidity policy in the central administration. As a result, the Interministerial Polar Committee should be strengthened. Among other things, on this basis, I have come to the conclusion that I should reverse the position I took as a State Council in the Ministry of Justice on 5 March 2000, and maintain the Polar Department as a separate department.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1306	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 649]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1322	The majority will today decide on the actual ratification of the cooperation agreement negotiated by the government of Stoltenberg between Norway and the European Police Office, Europol. A unanimous committee joined the wish of the previous Bondevik government to open negotiations on such an agreement. The government of Stoltenberg has negotiated the cooperation agreement, and it is a broad majority that expresses satisfaction with it and that gives its support to ratification. The majority point to developments in recent years in the direction of increasing cross-border and better organised crime and therefore need to be met with cross-border cooperation. It is gratifying that SV also supports the agreement. Only the centre party is in the position against the contract. Crime has no limits. Where the fight against crime has been restricted internationally by national laws and regulations, criminals have been able to make similar use of it through an increasingly organised, more professional and more international activity. This applies, inter alia, to: drug crime, alcohol smuggling, prostitution, money laundering and data crime, to name a few areas. Economic differences between countries can be said to contribute to the strengthening of criminal motivation. War and poverty also create large refugee flows. People on the run are easily sacrificed to human traffickers and to trafficking in human beings. Globalisation of the economy and free movement also make it more necessary to cooperate actively in combating crime. Cooperation in the field of justice has been significantly strengthened and expanded within the EU in recent years. This applies, inter alia, to: police and judicial cooperation. Since the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, Schengen cooperation has become an integral part of EU cooperation. The Schengen Agreement between Norway, Iceland and the EU regulates Norway's participation in Schengen cooperation, where this builds on the Schengen acquis. However, this agreement does not provide a basis for Norway to participate in other police cooperation outside this legislation. Europol cooperation was fully operational from 1 June 1999. The aim of Europol is to contribute to the effectiveness of Member States’ fight against serious international crime and to strengthen cooperation between competent authorities. Europol has thus become the most important EU country action to prevent and combat serious organised crime. In particular, the exchange of information between Member States is important, where Europol can be used as an intermediary and for analysis of information. In order to facilitate the exchange of information, EU countries are required to deploy Europol liaison officers, and Europol may also deploy liaison officers in the Member States. Europol also carries out operational analyses which can contribute to the Member States’ own investigations. Europol shall make expertise and technical assistance available for investigation. Europol’s mandate covers illicit drug trafficking, illicit trafficking in nuclear and radioactive substances, trafficking in human beings, trafficking in human beings, trafficking in stolen vehicles, terrorism and money laundering. It is a prerequisite that crime affects several Member States of the European Union. Norway is building its relationship with the EU on intergovernmental agreements with the EEA Agreement as a cornerstone. Because EU countries are increasingly cooperating in areas not covered by the EEA Agreement but still affecting Norway, the need to conclude specific cooperation agreements in different areas increases. In particular, it is a challenge for Norway that our neighbouring countries are more closely involved in cooperation in such areas. In the North, we have long traditions of police cooperation. In this area, too, reference is made to the ‘Nordic model’ when an outside Nordic refers to police cooperation. This cooperation is seen as a model. This needs to be understood, of course, in the light of extensive and traditional Nordic cooperation in general, and because police cooperation is based on uniform legislation and social structures, as well as knowledge and trust in each other's legal systems. Police cooperation between the Nordic countries is described as successful and practical. It is not least with these countries that we are now going to continue and further formalise police cooperation. We will continue and strengthen cooperation with our Nordic neighbouring countries through Europol. The so-called PTN cooperation, police and customs cooperation in the Nordic region, have more similarities with Europol cooperation, but have not established a permanent secretariat and governing bodies. Several PTN projects are now being continued throughout the area with Europol as the coordinator. Continued Norwegian participation in the projects is therefore an important part of the rationale for the establishment of cooperation between Norway and Europol. PTN cooperation will now focus on all forms of serious cross-border crime. It is also important to mention the various drug projects on which we have cooperated in the Nordic region. When the Nordic EU countries place greater emphasis on cooperation through Europol, it is important to maintain the Nordic link between Norway and Europol. Only EU countries can become parties to the Europol Convention and thus members of Europol. However, the Convention opens up the possibility for third countries and international organisations to enter into various forms of cooperation with Europol. The cooperation agreement involves the close cooperation of Norway with Europol in combating serious international crime, but it will be more limited than between EU Member States. In particular, cooperation shall take place through the exchange of information under carefully regulated conditions. Norway and Europol have a mutual right to deploy liaison officers to the counterparty. A Norwegian police liaison officer will therefore be deployed at the Europol headquarters in The Hague. Kripos has been designated as Norway’s national contact point in the agreement. An important part of the agreement is that Norway can only provide information collected in accordance with Norwegian legislation, and the agreement has important data security and data protection provisions. The Government has stressed that the agreement ensures a high level of privacy. Individuals are guaranteed the right to access data that are transferable in accordance with the contract or to have the information checked. Incorrect information may be required corrected or deleted, both by Europol and by Norway. The agreement with Europol involves, in the first place, practical police cooperation and involves a small degree of regulatory development. Europol cooperation cannot therefore be compared with EEA and Schengen cooperation. On 11 September, the need for cross-border cooperation was further highlighted. In the time since the brutal terrorist attacks on New York and Washington D.C., we have seen a broad international coalition stand together in the fight against terrorism. This fight is based, in particular, on decisions taken by the UN Security Council, including: Resolution 1373 on the financing of terrorism. The EU has also taken important decisions to combat terrorism in the wake of the events of 11 September. At its extraordinary meeting on 21 September the European Council adopted a comprehensive action plan to combat terrorism. EU Heads of State or Government agreed on measures such as: concerns Europol legislation. I would assume that through our agreement with the EU in this area – perhaps also through the Schengen Agreement – Norway could be affected by some of the measures. I would therefore ask the Minister of Justice to explain this in more detail in his statement. Europol police cooperation is of a dynamic nature and cooperation is expected to review changes in the course of the development of crime and on the basis of EU policy processes. If Europol’s mandate is further extended, Norway will be able to assess on its own basis whether to extend cooperation accordingly. The majority of the Committee considers it important to allow Norway’s cooperation with Europol to develop in parallel with the dynamic development of Europol. In the setting, SV arranges for Storting’s EOS Committee to be responsible for following up the privacy check. Furthermore, the SV calls for an increased need after 11 September to include issues relating to international banking and financial confidentiality and money transactions in the agreement, and they ask the Government to address these issues with the EU pursuant to Article 19 on the modification of the agreement. I expect the SV to explain this further in the debate, and I would ask the Minister of Justice to comment on this comment in his intervention. As mentioned at the outset, the Centre Party opposes the conclusion of the agreement, and the main reason is that privacy is based on the submission. The Central Party also calls for Interpol to be strengthened and further developed as an alternative to Europol. To that I would like to make a few brief comments. Interpol has been and will continue to be a very important body for international police cooperation. Norway has placed great emphasis on Interpol’s activities, and we will continue to do so in the future. However, Interpol has some limitations as Member States are not obliged to respond to each other’s requests by convention. These are managed according to national assessments, procedures and internal legislation. This is the main difference between Interpol and Europol. In Norway, we therefore need more committed cooperation within Europol. The majority believe that the agreement will strengthen police cooperation between Norway and the EU Member States and that it is therefore an important instrument in the fight against crime in Norway and Europe. The Labour Party was among the first to address the need for Norway to be associated with Europol and has been an active driver for negotiating an agreement. We are therefore very pleased that today there is a broad majority in favour of the agreement. The draft opinion has also been submitted to the Judicial Committee, which, in its opinion, refers to the comments made by the various fractions in the draft opinion of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and has no further comments on the matter. On this basis, I recommend that the majority vote be taken by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1385	In recent years, it has increasingly been shown that Norway is also undergoing a development where crime is becoming cross-border and more organised. Cross-border cooperation is a prerequisite for curbing such crime and for leading developments in a direction that better ensures both the security of society and of each individual. Within the EU, this situation has led to the significant joint tasks that have been taken into account in judicial cooperation. The 1999 Treaty of Amsterdam created a new structure for judicial cooperation within the EU. Part of the cooperation was transnational. The important thing for us today is that police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters are still intergovernmental, but with new instruments in the form of detailed provisions on police cooperation, customs and prosecution authorities, courts and targeted work on more uniform legislation. Since the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, Schengen cooperation has become an integral part of cooperation within the EU and since June 1999 the Europol Convention of 1995 has also become fully operational. The Agreement between Norway, Iceland and the EU on participation in Schengen cooperation regulates Norway's participation in the further development of such cooperation, which is based on the Schengen acquis. In cases where further development of police cooperation in the EU is a continuation outside the area defined in the Schengen cooperation, Norway will be excluded from participation. This restriction makes it all the more important to assess the additional possibilities Norway can take advantage of through Europol. Initially, only EU countries can become parties to the Europol Convention and thus members of Europol. However, the Convention provides for the conclusion of different forms of cooperation between third countries and international organisations, which is the basis for Norway’s accession. As a consequence of the intergovernmental and non-overnational nature of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, Norway will be able to assess independently whether cooperation should be extended if Europol’s own mandate is extended. Cooperation between Norway and Europol will also be more limited than is the case between EU Member States. There is also reason to stress that Norway, for its part, can only provide information collected in accordance with Norwegian law and that the agreement can be terminated by the parties without any conditions. In contrast to the Centre Party – which expresses scepticism through its comment in the Committee’s position as to whether Norway really has any opportunity on its own initiative to assess whether cooperation should be extended further – the majority seems to have taken this into account. The view of the centre party today is remarkable, as the party agreed that Norway would negotiate an agreement when the party itself was in government. It is difficult to see that the outcome of the negotiations can provide a basis for such a complete turnaround. The time since 11 September has dramatically demonstrated the importance of standing together across borders in the fight against international crime. The negotiated agreement will be an important instrument in combating crime in Norway and Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1404	The matter comes a little late for Stortinget, because we in SV needed to go some rounds with us sail. We've had some debates, and it's especially because this is clearly an intergovernmental agreement, that we've ended up at the position we've been doing. It is clear that only EU countries can become members of Europol. Making an intergovernmental agreement with Europol strengthens my refusal to the EU position instead of weakening it. It is necessary to cooperate internationally to combat international crime. Here we are facing major challenges, especially after Norway has become a member of Schengen, and border controls have been abolished. The cooperation agreement concerns drug trafficking, illicit trafficking in radioactive substances, etc. Intergovernmental agreements are just the alternative to Norwegian EU membership. If effective international cooperation is not ensured in this area, the fight against international crime can be a strong argument for the yes-side next time the issue arises. There is another way of saying that, if we had not been a member of Schengen, we also had to have such an agreement on police cooperation. In a way, it is reassuring that the Schengen Agreement does not automatically involve us in such cooperation, but that such an intergovernmental agreement is also needed. A number of data protection issues may be raised with Europol, and in particular with the so-called TECS cooperation – the TECS system. The main concern is which information can be obtained and recorded. However, Norwegian legislation regulates which information about Norwegian citizens can be exchanged with Europol. Article 7(4) explicitly states: ‘Norway shall only transmit information to Europol collected, stored and transmitted in accordance with national law.’;» Europol does not have access to Norwegian police records, nor does Norway have access to Europol’s registers, and these registers cannot be crossed. Personal data may be exchanged for specific criminal proceedings or for suspected offences. The data shall be deleted after three years. It is necessary to use the Data Protection Authority to verify that this is really done. The agreement contains a number of provisions for the correction and deletion of information, and it will be interesting to see whether we can get the Data Protection Authority into such an important role, namely when it comes to checking it. The size must also be able to control, and we intend to get back to Stortinget later, considering that this could be in the EOS Committee's remit. The size needs to be informed annually about how Europol develops and how the cooperation agreement works. Of course, if Europol is to be amended in such a way as to change the cooperation agreement, it has to be done after a reconciliation here in the United Kingdom. So a little bit about this that's been up with a connection person — it's a connection person, not a person with a police authority in Norway. He/she is given the same type of immunity as embassy staff but has no authority in Norway. Europol is likely to also provide immunity for operational police, but it is not for Norway for those countries that are members of Europol, as stated in the agreement. So finally, cooperation in Europol is of a dynamic nature. When the majority wants ‘Norway’s cooperation with Europol to be developed in parallel with the dynamic development of Europol’, we will clarify once again in SV that it needs to be controlled by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1422	The Central Party has noted that the Government of the Proposition on Europol admits that the free movement of persons contributes to facilitating the implementation of criminal acts. This is at the heart of the criticism previously voiced by the Central Party against the reduction of border controls in the EU. In the past, this ratio has been devalued by the bulk of the population. The Central Party will oppose the conclusion of an agreement between Norway and Europol. This has three main reasons. Firstly, international crime must be met with global cooperation. 11 September showed that we must approach the fight against international crime with a broader starting point than just the European one. Regional cooperation mechanisms are not sufficient to make the fight against international terrorism effective. If global cooperation is concerned, there must also be a willingness to invest political energy in further developing precisely this cooperation. The Central Party therefore wants to strengthen Interpol so that this organisation becomes the central organisation in the fight against international crime in the future. It is also important to facilitate a role for the UN in the fight against international crime. There is an important Security Council resolution with a number of measures to reduce the financial flows of international terrorist organisations. It is important that international societies follow up so that the resolution can be followed up in all UN member states. Today, there is a regrettable fact that a number of countries have neither administrative capacity nor financial capacity to follow up the resolution. The UN resolution illustrates how important global cooperation actually is, and what potential it has if we really want to follow up. The second reason why the Central Party disagrees with the agreement with Europol is related to privacy. The Europol Agreement definitely limits data protection. Europol's computer system is Europol's heart and brain. We are integrated into a comprehensive central register to contain standardised data, including personal data, on persons convicted or suspected of having committed or taken part in criminal offences in Europol's work. Possible future offenders may also be included. This is of course problematic, but even worse are the analytical registers. The analytical registers are special temporary registers for the analysis of specific areas of activity. Here you can register potential witnesses, victims or persons who are likely to be victims, contacts and connections, as well as persons who can provide information on the criminal matters involved. So we're talking about registering a very difficult ring of people around convicted or suspected people. The types of personal data that may be stored in the analytical records are not specified in the Convention, only in so-called implementing rules for analytical records. There has been a broad debate on privacy issues in the EU. In Norway, there has been largely silence, and privacy concerns are hardly mentioned in the landfill proposal. Our third reason for opposing the agreement is that Europol is at the heart of EU police and judicial cooperation. This is an area that is in strong development in the EU and where supranationality is constantly expanding. By engaging in Europol cooperation, we are increasingly involved in the EU’s transnational structures. Sense if the negotiated agreement is intergovernmental, which many have been concerned about here, and can formally be cancelled, we do not believe that this can be done in practice in a simple way. We also believe that in practice it would be very difficult to say no to extending the scope of the agreement. On this basis, the Central Party will vote against the conclusion of the Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1443	The Coastal Party will contribute to the fight against international crime and terrorism. In order for control to be as effective as possible, it is necessary to apply a combination of several types of instruments. Firstly, border controls between countries are needed so that criminals and terrorists cannot move across borders without risking identity control. Secondly, national police work is needed within each country. Thirdly, international cooperation against crime and terrorism is needed. The relationship between these instruments is important. Open and effective border controls will reduce the need for monitoring within the country. Steinar Bastisen recently promoted a Document No. Eight proposals for the Stortinget on the introduction of Norwegian border control against Schengen. Unfortunately, this proposal only received the vote of the Coastal Party. We were particularly disappointed that parties wishing to market themselves as opponents of Norwegian participation in Schengen voted against such a proposal. The establishment of permanent border control against Schengen would also mean the Norwegian withdrawal of Schengen. The Coastal Party believes that police work on Norwegian territory should be carried out by Norwegian police. The proposal for an agreement between Norway and Europol provides for the establishment of a system of immunity for Europol liaison officers in Norway. The coastal party believes that this point of the agreement is problematic. Similarly, we are sceptical about the provision that through the Police Police Centre, Norway will, on request, transmit to Europol all information relating to internal organisation, tasks and data security procedures of the police authorities in Norway. The Coastal Party wants any agreement on police cooperation to be purely intergovernmental, i.e. that the parties are equivalent. The draft agreement introduces a dispute settlement procedure with an arbitration court which can easily be rocked by the equivalence of cooperation. In the interests of privacy, it is important to have national control over personal data. In a large system such as Europol, sensitive information will be more easily balanced and the system is rapidly developing. We fear that Norway will have too little control over how information we provide to Europol could be used. The Coastal Party will have international police cooperation based on equivalence and popular control. We will strengthen intergovernmental police cooperation in Interpol and work for more balanced, popularised and verifiable cooperation with Europol than the present draft agreement allows. It is very surprising to see the position taken by the Socialist Left Party in this matter, because in an article in the Official Journal of Bergen on 4 June 1999 SV was shocked by the no-government: ‘Norwegian Europol participation is a pitiful kneeling from the no-government and the Central Party,’ says Ågot Valle.’ And then, of course, Europol was clearly opposed. Against this background, the Coastal Party will oppose the conclusion of an agreement between the Kingdom of Norway and Europol.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1476	The organized, international crime characterises the crime scene across Europe, and today it is perhaps our most serious social problem. Persons and groups living by crime are targeting more countries and cooperating across borders. Terrorism in the fall of the United States was a tragic reminder that we and other countries need to understand even more the importance of active international cooperation to combat crime in all forms and to strengthen respect for law and justice. As a member of Schengen, Norway is involved in important cooperation with the aim of providing citizens with a high level of security through cooperation between Member States in the prevention and prosecution of crime. At the same time, cooperation to prevent and combat racism and xenophobia is further developed. The agreement negotiated between Europol and Norway will strengthen police cooperation between Norway and the EU Member State, where Europol is the EU Member State's liaison. Cooperation may include all tasks assigned to Europol by the Europol Convention. I look to my satisfaction that a broad majority in Stortinget ends up on the conclusion of the agreement. Europol shall primarily assist the Member States in the exchange of information and intelligence within the framework of the Convention and national legislation. The agreement provides for the right for Norway and Europol to station police liaison officers with the other party. Europol also has an analytical unit that will be useful to Norway. Norway will also be able to take part in the advice and technical support arrangements provided by Europol. It has been important for both Norway and Europol that the agreement provides sufficient guarantees of privacy to ensure public confidence in the exchange of information. The rules governing the processing of personal data and the practice of legislation shall be reassuring. Confidentiality is central to the processing and exchange of personal data. Data stored or transmitted shall be accurate and up-to-date, they shall be collected legally and serve a legitimate purpose. The transmission of data shall only take place with the intention of preventing or investigating criminal offences. Data shall only be stored within defined time limits. Individuals are guaranteed the right to access data transmitted in accordance with the agreement or to have the information verified. Incorrect information may be required corrected or deleted. The exchange of information is governed by Norwegian legislation on the Norwegian side and by the Europol Convention with underlying legislation on the part of Europol. Both sets of rules are based on the EU Data Protection Directive. The Directive was implemented in Norwegian law last year, through the adoption of the Data Protection Act. This provides a reassuring framework for cooperation. Data protection has been consulted during the negotiations. Furthermore, it has been important for Norway to ensure a dialogue between the Data Protection Authority and Europol’s supervisory bodies. The exchange of letters between Europol and Norway in the context of the signature of the Agreement refers to the necessary measures for close cooperation with Norway where this is important for the application of the Agreement and for achieving a high standard of privacy. The Committee's position and also the rapporteur of the case dealt with the relationship with the EOS Committee of Storting. I only have one comment to make: the EOS Committee is the body of the Storting, and how the Storting wants to use the body is a matter for the Storing. The minority of SV addresses the need for work against financial crime. I would like to point out here that the Europol Agreement also includes cooperation with regard to counterfeiting of money and means of payment and money laundering. There is also other international cooperation in the fight against economic crime and money laundering, including: in the EU and in FATF, the Financial Action Task Force. The EU has now adopted amendments to its Money Laundering Directive. The Norwegian authorities have started the process of implementing this in Norwegian law. Let me underline that the Government considers it highly desirable for Norway to conclude the agreement with Europol. The agreement will be an important instrument in our fight against serious forms of international crime and will strengthen police cooperation between Norway and the EU Member States. The agreement will also strengthen Nordic police cooperation. The rapporteur also addressed the work currently being done in the EU in the fight against terrorism, including: European arrest warrants. The European arrest warrant was actually considered by the European Commission to be part of Schengen, but the EU has subsequently considered, through Council proceedings, that this is not Schengen-relevant. This will deal with these issues in the EU system, and will make a decision during this week to my knowledge. Once this has been adopted in the EU, Norway will decide on what is available through the European arrest warrant and other related measures, and we will, of course, by the Government, appropriately return to the Stortingen with this. I have tried so far to put myself well into the debate on this in the EU, and would like to say, on a principle basis, that it is particularly important to be aware of how the principles of the rule of law are weighed down in evil, necessary and difficult balances to combat evil, namely terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1506	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 651]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1522	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 651]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1538	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 653]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1554	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 653]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1562	We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1571	Three proposals have been made for this matter during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Kristin Halvorsen on behalf of Socialist Left-wing Party proposal No. 3, from Carl I. Hagen on behalf of the Progress Party It is first voted on the proposals of the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1583	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1590	For explanations of vote, please assume the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1593	Yes, the President is quite right. As the parliamentary leader in the Right did to the Right Group, I would urge the Christian People's Party to vote against all the proposals. I'll just explain why we're voting against proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox It's because we have full confidence that this government will fulfill what is the intention of the presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1602	I would urge the Labour Party Group to vote against any proposal. As regards proposal No: 2, we find it totally unnatural to instruct the Government to do something that is, of course, to comply with international obligations. Had it been necessary to instruct the Government to do so, we would have had a very serious situation. As regards proposal No: 3, from Carl I. Hagen, we vote against, referring to the fact that we consider the debate that has been going on today, as an extension of the meeting we had in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, namely a consultation with the Stortinget. And then it has come to light that there is a majority here in the Chamber for what is the government's policy. I also refer to what the Presidency wrote about Section 13 of the Rules of Procedure on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1611	As the debate has shown today, I would urge the Group of the Party of European Socialists to vote against proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. However, we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox You could say different things about that. But we feel that there have been some vague signals from the Government in relation to the military court, and therefore find it appropriate to vote in favour of the proposal. I recommend that the Group of the European Centre for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions vote against proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1618	Then the necessary explanations of vote should have been given. It is then first voted on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The majority does not agree to Norwegian forces being put at the disposal of military operations in Afghanistan under the command of the United States of America.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1635	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to clarify that, in the context of operations intended to apprehend guilty of the terrorist attacks in the United States on 11 September 2001, Norway will not contribute to the conviction of persons by military courts without fundamental legal certainty as enshrined, inter alia, in the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights, Article 14.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1650	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy gives its consent under the Constitution § 25 to Norway's participation with voluntary military forces and equipment in the international coalition's fight against international terrorism, which has now begun in Afghanistan under the leadership of the United States under the authority of decisions of the United Nations Security Council.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1665	The President will propose that the statements by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence at the Stortinget meeting today on the matter on supplementary agenda No. 23 shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. We then turn to voting on the items on agenda No. 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1674	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Bjørn Jacobsen on behalf of Socialist Left-wing proposal No. 2, from Morten Højlund on behalf of the Progress Party Mr Höglund has asked for the floor to explain the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1686	We do not have a proposal of our own on the financial framework since our proposal falls outside and should therefore not be voted on. We will then vote against the vote and against the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1691	It is then first voted on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to immediately stop any financial support to the Palestinian self-government authorities. The size determines when the support can be reinitiated after the government has set it.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e1706	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e6176	The centre party here has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-05.ana.ud1368e6618	There is no record.
