ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e16	From the Workers' Group there is an application for welfare leave from the representative of Leif Lund from the evening meeting on Wednesday 28 November to Thursday 29 November. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Rita Tveiten, is invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Rita Tveiten is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Leif Lund.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e39	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e44	I'd like to suggest Øyvind Halleraker and Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e49	Øyvind Halleraker and Finn Martin Vallersnes are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker and Finn Martin Vallersnes are unanimously elected presidents of the Stortinget meeting today. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e96	The objectives of the Economic Policy of the Cooperative Government are: work on allincreased value-creatingfurther development of the Norwegian welfare societyjustiably distributive development A strong and competitive business life is a prerequisite for achieving these objectives. Economic growth has declined internationally in the last year. The terrorist attacks on the United States on 11 September reinforced this trend. World economic growth in 2002 is estimated to be the lowest since the early 1980s. However, the OECD considers that this is temporary. Until autumn, the Norwegian economy has been little affected by the international setback, but now it is beginning to be noticed by us. In particular, it applies to the export-oriented part of business. Several developments point towards a stronger two-way distribution of the Norwegian economy. Competitive business experience setbacks, while activity in more sheltered parts of the economy remains high. Market shares have been lost by industry while being affected by the fall in oil investment from the very high level in 1998. These problems are accentuated by the decline in the international economy and a higher cost increase in Norway than in the rest of the world. Despite slightly higher unemployment estimates, weaker labour demand in some industries and moderate economic growth, the labour market remains relatively tight. This makes it difficult to bring wage growth down to the level of our trading partners. In this way, spring's pay balance becomes important. There is also a responsibility for the social partners. The new rule of action for budgetary policy is based on the long-term sound use of oil revenues. As a general rule, we should not use more than the yield we have from the oil fund. – This rule of action ensures a stable development of the economy in both the short and long term. “It enables us to meet the strong growth of pension expenditure in the population’s population in the decades to come. – It ensures a sound generation balance sheet. – It contributes to a balanced development of the economy, in which the competitive sector is maintained to an adequate extent. – It ensures that there is more uncertainty about future oil revenues than about revenues already earned and set aside in the Petroleum Fund. There is likely to be considerable pressure on the increased use of oil revenues in addition to that resulting from the rule of action, both in the form of increased expenditure and lower taxes. In order to meet such increasing pressures in the coming years, it is important that one does not deviate from the guidelines established for the use of oil revenues. There must be credibility for the new rule of action on budgetary policy, and then we cannot begin by deviating from it. The government's budget line is a contribution to lower interest rates, which is important, among other things. for many in the establishment phase, for business and for municipalities. The Co-operation Board is based on its policy on the Sem Declaration. It may not, of course, be completed in three to four weeks. However, through our draft budget, we have shown the direction we want for policy. In many spending areas, the Stoltenberg government had proposed increases that are in line with the Sem Declaration. This applies, for example: action in kindergartens, health and patient care, the development of care for the elderly, the upgrading of school buildings and the stepping-up of assistance. These measures are continued by the Cooperation Government. The governance and government parties will actively contribute to the fight against poverty, both within and outside the borders of the country. The child allowance in the population allowance for disability pensioners is increased. The indicative social assistance rates are adjusted and the rates for children by social beneficiaries are increased. The cash support is excluded by measuring social assistance. We suggest increasing efforts for the treatment and rehabilitation of drug users. The annual rate of charge for the payment of propensity is adjusted from the proposed NOK 1500 to NOK 1350. These are the first steps in combating poverty in Norway. The government will subsequently present an action plan against poverty. Work is already under the direction of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. International aid to poor countries is increasing from 0.89 p.m. of gross national income in the year to 0,92 pst. Next year. The target is 1 pst. by 2005 at the latest. 11 September has led to the need to strengthen preparedness for terrorism in Norway as well. It is therefore proposed to allocate 140 million. increasing police, social security and preparedness to make us less vulnerable to terrorism. The government will come back with a new assessment of the need for a pooling proposition for spring. The government will bet on the school. Quality shall be improved by proposing an increase of 1 hour per hour in Norwegian education. Weeks 2 to 4. class step. We have withdrawn the Stoltenberg government's proposal to remove the 10th grade take-off exam. The appropriations allocated to non-governmental organisations are increased by 100 million. kr in relation to the proposal of the Labour Party Government. This should include, inter alia: ensuring that organisations are fully compensated for increased costs arising from the VAT reform and reflecting the government’s positive view of the voluntary sector in our society. The co-operation management will provide framework conditions to facilitate the establishment of CO2-free gas power plants. It is therefore proposed to step up efforts in this area as part of a more forward-looking environmental policy. Cooperation governance will strengthen the growth base of business by reducing taxes and taxes that slow down investment and innovation. In order to ensure the basis for welfare schemes, we need a strong and high-growth business. Lower taxes and taxes are both important and correct in this way. In this context, it may be mentioned in particular that the temporary dividend tax is abolished, as provided when it was introduced a year ago. The tax-reduction scheme for investment in research and development is being improved. Certain reliefs are proposed in the taxation of options in employment. The air passenger fee will be terminated from 1 April next year. The electricity charge is reduced by 2 cents from 1 January 2002. The investment fee shall be removed from 1 October. Employees and social security will also find relief in taxes and taxes. The rate of the minimum deduction is increased to 23 pst. and the upper limit of the minimum deduction is set at NOK 43 000. The net tax-free income limits for pensioners are increased by NOK 1000. The Stoltenberg Government's proposal to increase the housing tax by increasing the equation values is reversed. In addition, the base charge is increased in the form of housing taxes. This will delight all the owners of the dwelling. Of course, employees will also benefit from the removal of the air passenger charge and the reduced electricity charge. The government has been criticized for cutting district policy. However, the cuts must be seen in the context of the improvements made to business. The removal of dividend taxes improves access to risk capital also in districts. Better framework conditions for business research and development provide a basis for innovation. The air passenger charge improves conditions for persons and businesses in the districts. The investment fee disappears. Investments in transport are increasing. The local economy is being strengthened. All these measures will benefit both business and districts. To sum up, the co-operation government budget prioritises tax relief, measures for a better environment, poverty reduction and voluntary sector stronger than the workers' party government did. At the same time, we continue, and partly strengths, their commitment to health, care for the elderly, education and assistance. The budget as a whole is a balanced result of the policies of three cooperation parties. This is a good starting point for solving the important and major challenges facing society. From the position of the Financial Committee and the first day of the debate, we have to note that it has not taken a majority in the framework of the 2002 State budget. But a budget must be made and a framework decision must be taken in order to move forward in the budgetary process. I would therefore like to make it clear that if the proposals of the Government parties are not adopted today, I will take the consequences of this, because the Government does not have the basis we believe we need for economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e180	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e183	First, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that Prime Minister Bondevik used so much of his contribution to provide a passionate and committed defence of the new rule of action in economic policy. It is an important guideline for which it is good that there is a broad majority in the Grand Duchy. And the advantage of the guideline that we're going to use the yield of the oil fund is that one ensures the proper use of oil revenue, which will mean that we're now going to get lower interest rates. This is good for both businesses and households. And secondly, it's also an advantage for all of us who make budgets, that it means that we have something more money to spend on what was the case before, and then everything becomes much easier. Now the Prime Minister made it clear that since there is no clear majority for the budget in the financial position, he would take the consequences of it, and the Government will go off if there is no majority. And it is who expected that it would be necessary to threaten a cabinet question in order to have a majority in the budget. The problem is that even if a budget is adopted, it is not really a majority in the Grand Duchy who are behind the financial system. You force the bulk of the population, if the Progress Party turns out to give in, to vote for something they're against. Then a budget is adopted, but you don't guarantee a majority behind the financial arrangement. Not only shall a budget be adopted, it shall be implemented every day next year — many crossroads, many audits, many adjustments, and then it is a disadvantage that there is no real majority, a real majority in this Chamber supporting the budget. Among other things, it must be a problem for the Progress Party to vote in favour of a budget which means higher taxes for those with low incomes than for the Labour Party. And I'd like to ask the Prime Minister if he thinks it's a good basis for the Government to force the Storting to vote for budgeting the bulk of the population is really opponents of.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e190	First, to the question of the rule of action. It is important that there is a broad majority in the Stortinget that is committed to the rule of action of the Stortinget itself last year. For my government, it is an important objective of this budgetary procedure to achieve a result that is responsible, which is balanced and which can thus help to bring interest down. It will benefit individuals, households, municipalities and businesses. For example, a family with a loan of DKK 1 million would have to pay. with a 1 pst. interest-rate reduction saves NOK 10 000 and that is a significant amount for many. With regard to the question of a majority behind the government budget, perhaps the Labour Party and the party's parliamentary leader should be somewhat cautious. We have experienced budgetary processes in the past where there has been no majority behind the draft budget of the Labour Party Government. Last year it was changed so strongly that the budget of the Labour Party Government was not adopted. With regard to the use of cabinet issues, this is an instrument in our parliamentary system. In the past, one did not have the opportunity to seek the full adoption of a budget by such an instrument, because a voted chapter for Chapter, entry for line item. It's only now that you've had it in the last few years. And if necessary, I don't see it as wrong to have to use it, but the outcome of that, of course, we don't know at this point in the debate. In the case of taxes on those with low incomes, it is a fact that, for all income groups, the arrangements of the cooperative parties, when looking at taxes and taxes as a whole, are better than those of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e201	The Prime Minister now raised the so-called rule of action to about a kind of new god to be worshiped and to govern everything. Then my question is: if unemployment is going to rise to 150 000 and there is a need to stimulate the economy either by reducing taxes and taxes or by increasing the demand for labour through appropriations, should we say that unfortunately, the rule of action prevents us from spending any more of the huge surplus in the state budget of 173 billion dollars to secure employment? Is it really going to be the case that a theoretical rule of action made by the tailors and weavers' economists is going to be a new coercion, and where, in addition, substantial tax revenue is being snuffed out that is not allowed to be used for the benefit of the population? As shown in the tables in the national budget and the additional proposal, the trick Stoltenberg lost 5,077 million. NOK of the actual expected tax revenue that he said could not be used. They are corrected for activity. After the new government spent 800 million. kr more of the oil money, this activity correction was reduced accordingly, so you would get up with the same phase. And Kjell Magne Bondevik has remedied 4 277 million. kr. Why is it that real tax revenue that comes to the state fund should not be used for, for example: To reduce theft of married pensioners, to reduce taxes and taxes for most people? Is it really that the new rule of action is the new god who is to govern Norwegian economic policy regardless of what is reasonable to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e208	With regard to the rule of action as a new bid, with which the leader of the Progress Party started, I think it holds with the ten bids we have, they are good living rules. However, there are some contexts in the economy that might be useful to be aware of, even if one will not have more commandments and also not more than one god. With regard to the method used by the Ministry of Finance and the Government – under two different governments – for a proper withdrawal of the petroleum fund under the rules of action, as far as I know, there are no economists outside the Ministry of Finance who have raised doubts about it and that this is correct. Of course, there is an opportunity to have other opinions about this, but I have not recorded that some economists who have entered this material have questioned that this is the right way to point it out. It is a fact that several economists, at the latest in today's business yesterday, state that if one now increases economic activity, one has to count on an interest rate rise, or at least not an expected interest rate decrease. I think it is important for families with children, especially for those in the establishment phase, for businesses, for municipalities and for those with loans, that we can bring down the level of interest rates in Norway, which is clearly above what is common in other countries. It will also benefit low pay. In the case of pensions, as Mr Hagen mentioned, he knows that there are several of us who might be interested in seeing whether it is possible to bring about an approach to the pension, a reduction in the curtailment of retirement couples compared to lonely ones. That's one thing I think we should be able to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e219	I think we should hang the bell on the cat and stop walking around the porridge. This is not about an action rule for the Norwegian economy. This is about Norway, one of the richest countries in the world, being in the situation that while the Prime Minister used the election campaign to appeal to the voters that we should think about the future and the grandchildren, we have a government where the Right decides the policy, and in the Stortinget it is Carl I. Hagen who has been directed. The party believed that it was Bondevik and not Petersen who was to become prime minister. And so it was. Carl I. Hagen apparently had his daydream crushed when he did not become a Grand President, he established himself in the sacrificial role he loves so much – and got the head of the Finance Committee. The Progress Party concluded that an inaugural decision should be adopted for this government in the light of the Sem Declaration and the replies to the Progress Party’s Major Group. And so it was. Carl I. Hagen said hope. Bondevik jumped, Petersen jumped, Foss jumped – yes even Lilletun jumped. [[Laughter]] The Party of Advances has decided in advance of today whether the Government should ask cabinet questions and when the Government should ask cabinet questions. This government is kept alive by a respirator, and it's Carl I. Hagen who has his finger on the button. And this is just the first harvest. That's how it's going to be this entire grossing-up period. Next time Carl I. Hagen wants the government to ask cabinet questions - yes, well, Bondevik does. There may be years of continuous humiliation for this government. The Christian People's Party and Bondevik are in the following situation: the right determines the policy, and the Progress Party decides the direction. My question to the Prime Minister is, What determines the Christian People's Party and the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e238	A party leader is allowed to give his own presentation of the situation, but it will not become any more true if it is repeated. If you look at the policy that this government has put forward both in the Sem Declaration and in this budget, you will see – if you have a little more objective glasses on than the Kristin Halvorsen clearly has – that we have a record high aid budget. It would have been interesting if Kristin Halvorsen could find out at least to notice it. We have a stronger commitment to the environment than the Stoltenberg government proposed. It could have been interesting if Kristin Halvorsen had at least mentioned it in a parentheses. We presented the first step in an action plan to combat poverty in Norway, on which Kristin Halvorsen is very commendable. It might have been interesting if she had at least mentioned it in a parentheses. These are areas where Kristin Halvorsen and others before the elections said it would not be possible to get a policy on if there were to be a cooperation with the Right. But that's what one has done, contrary to the description Kristin Halvorsen now gives. And it also falls to the earth when you hear that the Progress Party has the opposite form. We heard yesterday the party's members of the finance committee say that this budget is far too puzzling, with too small steps towards the right, that is, a sharp opposite analysis of what Kristin Halvorsen is now coming up with. This shows what I think this government has done quite well. None of these presentations are correct. There's a balanced cooperation between the center and the right, where all three parties have got something left. We do not conceal that the Right has had a significant impact on taxes and taxes, but the Right has also recognised that the Christian People's Party and the Left have had a significant impact on the environment and assistance. These are objective facts, and I actually think they, when it comes to the problem, are better for the story than the description we now got.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e249	I think the Prime Minister in his reply to Kristin Halvorsen now made it a little too simple, and I want to take one policy area to show the difference between this government and the previous government that Bondevik led, the Center Government, or Bondevik I, where the Center Party was, but not Right. The Prime Minister himself placed great emphasis on rural and agricultural policy during the negotiations at Sem, in line with what Kristin Halvorsen now says. While Bondevik I greatly increased the rural policy framework, Bondevik II – where the Right is – cut as hard. Bondevik I was heavily invested in municipal nutrition funds, which are important for especially the smallest business start-ups. Bondevik II completely removed municipal and industrial funds. Bondevik In the period Bondevik was Prime Minister of the Central Government. Mr Bondevik II cut the same appropriations. Mr Bondevik I supported the gas and diesel balancing system. The Bondevik II cut in such a way that in some districts fuel becomes up to 50 øre more expensive per. liters. Bondevik I established an item called regional coordination measures, which has had a major impact on industrial projects, while Bondevik II removed the budget line. In this way it is possible to continue in areas by region, where Bondevik I had great faith in targeted concrete regional policy instruments, and as experience has shown, while Bondevik II has gone over to general tax reliefs, where most of the tax reliefs, especially due to the loss of dividends, have a distorted geographical distribution, and where most go to Oslo and Akershus. Is that what Kristin Halvorsen asked for, that the reason is that the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture pointed out in Firda on 16 November, where he blames the budget for the right and says that ‘cut in the SND funds and agricultural transfers are not a good thing’, and that ‘we have a cooperative government, and the voters have said that they will have turned the policy against tax and tax laws’, and therefore he blames the Right for the budget that he could not defend in a meeting in Sogn and Fjordne.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e260	Of course, it is understandable and acceptable that the opposition colorises the policy areas as they wish and must be a critical opposition to the Government. We want a critical but also constructive opposition. But it goes with – and at least the Prime Minister must be allowed to say it – that there are some other proposals in this budget that we are convinced will be positive for the districts. I myself have traveled a lot around the districts – not only in the campaign, but also elsewhere – and know how busy people were to get the air passenger fee removed. So now this government is taking care of it. We know how many businesses in the districts that are engaged in tax-free allocations for research and development work as part of the innovation process. This government is expanding its possibilities. We know how many – both in the home state of Enoch and in my own – are concerned about increasing investment in transport as part of district policy. This government does. We know how concerned they are, not least, in the district municipalities with strengthening the municipal economy. There will be such a strengthening with the current budget, both by not involving greater tax revenue than expected in 2001, and by the fact that a lower price forecast and, hopefully, also a lower interest rate next year means a strong real strengthening of the local economy. It would have been nice if these aspects of district policy had also been mentioned. As far as agriculture is concerned, the representative, Mr Enoxen, knows that the Government has said that it should go through the tax rules with a view to improvements to keep the objective of an income development in agriculture in line with the income development of others. With regard to the dividend tax, which the Central Party is now considering – and the representative of Enoxsen has compared Bondevik I to Bondevik II in a number of areas – I have to mention that when Enoxen was in government, he and his finance minister were very clear against the dividend tax. Now they're clearly for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e281	It seems to me that Prime Minister Bondevik generalises the use of cabinet issues, both in his comments here today and in the public debate in the media. What the Prime Minister obviously does not fully take on board is that the problem we are now seeing is that the parties that formed a majority for a new government are not able to form a majority for a new budget. Then we are in the situation that it is strictly a majority of the Government, but it is not a majority of the Government's policy. It is a problem for the country, it is a problem for the Government, and it is also a problem for the Storting, because then we end up in the situation that it is not in this will decide what kind of budget we should have and decide what kind of government we should have, but it is the Group meeting of the Progress Party that decides whether the Bondevik government continues and whether the budget is adopted. And that's not a good situation to get into. This is because the government has not done the job that is one of the most important tasks of a government, namely to secure a majority behind a budget. This has not been achieved, and instead a very unusual instrument has been chosen for the adoption of a budget, namely cabinet issues. Furthermore, Prime Minister Bondevik's presentation of the budgets and comparison with the Workers' Party are very misleading. The starting point was that when the new government came into the government offices, it adjusted the many estimates and got about two billion extra dollars. These two billions spent them primarily on lower taxes for the richest. The working party has spent the money on lower taxes for those who have the least. That is why our budget line involves lower taxes for those with low incomes, compared to the government party budget lines. Bondevik didn't use a single penny to increase the assistance, even though he had an extra 2 billion kroner at his disposal. When the aid budget is there, it is due to the fact that the Workers' Party has, within substantially narrower limits, priority assistance as high as we did. The same applies to poverty and many other areas. We have to compare the same thing to the same thing, and that's what the prime minister doesn't do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e298	When one heard many statements about how it would go with a government aid policy if the Right was involved, I think one might now be able to give some credit because we have achieved that the Cooperation Government, where the Right is involved, maintains the highest aid budget of the time, which now goes up to 0.92 p.m. of gross national income. In the case of taxes, it is probably more interesting to look at a household load in terms of total taxes and taxes. And in the case of taxes and taxes, it is a fact that the arrangements of the cooperative parties are better or equal for all income groups measured against the Workers' Party. So to the question of the use of cabinet questions: first, I wonder a little about what Stoltenberg said about matters being settled in group meetings. The system is like this in Stortinget that the parties have their group meetings. It's really where positions are taken, whether it's in budgets or what governments we're going to have, before one is brought together in the Chamber for voting. This is part of Storting's system. It's not the least alarming thing. I am also not looking to generalise the use of cabinet questions. I hear some say that it would be a defeat and even humiliating, according to Kristin Halvorsen, if one were to have a budget adopted by means of cabinet questions. Now we cannot know the outcome of a vote until it is held, but what would be a defeat was whether a budget was not adopted for which a government can take responsibility. Cabinet issues are an instrument in our parliamentary system which, of course, should not be used too often. I agree with Mr Stoltenberg. It is a serious and powerful instrument. But if there is any area of business that has an extent that may indicate such a use, it must be the whole budget. It's only the last few years that you've had this opportunity. I well remember former prime ministers who were concerned that one should have had such an instrument when it applied to the whole of the budget, at a time when one did not have it. Cabinet issues shall not be used in vain, but it is a parliamentary instrument which is, of course, there to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e309	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e312	With very few exceptions, the State budget is the main document submitted by a government. Therefore, the government will normally place great emphasis on securing a majority behind its draft budget. The government sitting there is not doing that. It is not a majority in the UK that supports the government's draft budget. Nevertheless, we have to count on a budget to be adopted later today, and this is because the government is forcing the Storting to take a decision that is strictly non-majority in the Storing. It's done by threatening to leave a few weeks after the government joined. In this way, the Progress Party, if they bend and vote in favour of the draft budget after having asked cabinet questions, will be forced to vote in favour of a proposal that the party is really opposed to. For example, the Progress Party is forced to vote in favour of a budget which provides higher taxes for all with low incomes and higher taxes on goods at frontiers than they would have received by voting in favour of the Workers' Party's draft budget. It is not right, as Bondevik said, that if you see both taxes and taxes combined, the regime of the government parties is better for those with low incomes. The low incomes come out better with the Labour Party's arrangements than with the government parties' arrangements when we look at taxes and taxes. Then we have to compare the different proposals as they are in the financial situation. This means that there can be a majority for a budget, but not a majority for the policy in the budget. The threat of the government crisis makes us feel that there is a majority in favour of the government's holding, but not a majority in favour of the government's policy. Of course, it has happened before a government asks cabinet questions, but it is very unusual that only a few weeks after a government change, and it has hardly happened that there are cabinet questions on a government budget. That's why we're experiencing something that's at least abnormal, but it's also unfortunate. Not only shall a budget be adopted but it shall also be implemented. Large and small budgetary changes shall be monitored and the revised national budget for spring shall form the basis. The possibilities for the safe, predictable and tidy implementation of the budget are reduced when adopted by means of a threat of government crisis than when negotiated by a majority who actually support the financial approach for next year. The Bondevik Government's draft budget continues to include important parts of the government budget. This applies, inter alia, to: efforts to develop care for the elderly and to step up efforts in the field of psychiatry and cancer care. Of course, the Labour Party is pleased, and not least we are pleased that the government parties have chosen to maintain the financial framework of the Labour Party's budget. The government has not proposed to increase the use of oil money in relation to the workers' party government. It's a wise choice of the Government, which has the Workers' Party's support, because we're adding up to a decline in interest rates. Today, interest rates are about twice as high in Norway as in our neighbouring countries, and by keeping the limits we put up for in the financial system, we can count on some clear interest rate cuts over the next few months and the next year. But there are also important parts of the government parties' budgets that we believe are going in the wrong direction. For example, it was obvious that there was a fault of the government parties to go in to reintroduce excesses on the blue prescription for the elderly and disabled, which the Labour Party had proposed to remove in its budget line. Luckily, the bulk of the population has forced the government parties to change their mind and turn, and yet go in to remove excesses on the blue recipe for the elderly and the disabled. When you went through the budget after the change of government and saw that something higher was proposed and slightly lower in some areas, so that you could spend about NOK 2 billion more without increasing the use of oil revenues, it was disappointing to see that the government parties chose to spend mainly this extra money to give relief to those who have the most from before. The working party has used the same money to give more to those who have at least before. That is why our draft budget contains lower taxes for those with low income. In spring and in the election campaign, the government parties agreed to make decisions to increase the grant rate in the context of the reform of higher education to almost 40 p.m. – 1000 more a month. That proposal and that promise have now gone away, breaking a clear and clear promise given to the students of the country. The problem is that students are getting less, but not least that it is becoming more difficult to implement the reform of higher education that is to return to the full-time student, and to ensure that the examination is completed more quickly, by cutting the funding for studies, as the government parties have suggested. It is also disappointing to remove the Workers ’ Party’s proposal for free textbooks in high school. Instead, you promise a scholarship, but you don't suggest it, so there's a clean cut. It is serious that the government parties are making extensive cuts in regional and industrial policy. We want innovation, we want start-ups, and we want new businesses and new businesses all over the country, not least in District Norway. When the instruments that contribute to innovation and re-establishment are extensively cut, we get less of that, and then little adjustments in the municipal structure or microscopic adjustments in the road budget are helpful. The cuts we are now looking at in industrial policy and in research, among other things. development of new businesses, are serious for District Norway, and they are serious for many, many enterprises that are in a start-up phase. And then I find it disappointing that despite the fact that Højres leader Jan Petersen wrote in a letter to LO as late as August guaranteed the deduction of the union quota – which is an advantage 1.5 million employees have, and which is a base deduction, a minimum deduction, for very many employees – the first financial year has thus been chosen to go away from the Right in writing, namely to increase this deduction. They've cut it by 900 kroner, and actually they threatened to remove it completely. It has a poor social profile, but above all it is a manifest and very unreasonable breach of a written promise from a party leader to the country's largest employee organisation. All the other employee organisations are also involved. And there is no good income policy cooperation when the Right writes one thing in the election campaign – promise it in writing – and then just a few weeks later, the deduction halves and threatens to remove it completely. There is a poor income policy, and there is a poor distribution policy, because it is a minimum deduction for 1.5 million employees. I also think it is a problem that the Government has done with the defence budget. It keeps our frames, and strictly the Workers' Party would be happy for that. The problem is that the government parties have proposed the defence of many additional billions of dollars, and the serious fault we made with the Defense in the 1990s was that the bulk of the population promised the Defense billions. So the defense based itself on it, made investment plans, made purchases and built a structure based on the promises the bulk of the population made – but then the money did not come. Now the government parties are about to do the exact same thing. The right national meeting adopted a resolution in which they spoke of the Workers' Party's defence policy approach as reversing the policy of the used rifles and as a threat to the country's security. So it was a defense plan based on the appropriations and the structure that we put up, and now the government parties have put up exactly the same allocation proposals. The problem is that they've promised so much more. It creates uncertainty, creates a lack of predictability of defence, and therefore government parties have to decide. It is this lack of determination, both in relation to the large lines of who to cooperate with here in the Storting, but also in many individual cases, which create problems for the sitting government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e338	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e341	First of all, I must be allowed to tell the representative Stoltenberg that I think he has to reconsider. I think he has to go into the tax tables and check his numbers. I think it's the following that's the truth: that we're the same in terms of taxes and charges up to NOK 100 000, and that over NOK 100 000, the Cooperative Government has a better arrangement than the Workers' Party. I ask Stoltenberg to check through this. The representative of Stoltenberg was concerned with predictability in politics. You have to listen to that when it comes from the Workers' Party. Because if one remembers well, the Labour Party in the 2001 budget melted down with the greatest tax austerity in this country. In fact, the centre parties got it down and adjusted something, but in any case it was a tax return of dimensions. Then we had a campaign. Suddenly, in the middle of the election campaign, the Workers' Party discovered that tax was probably an important problem. Then they managed to signal new tax reliefs. In fact, yesterday several of the Workers' Party's representatives were up in the pulpit and boasted of the tax relief that the party now had. It is no wonder that someone perceives the Workers' Party to be a very moving goal for the time being. It's actually hard to predict where the Workers' Party appears. It's exciting, but it's not very predictable. But then I have a question for the representative Stoltenberg. Yesterday, there were many representatives on top of the pulpit and told how it would affect the people if double taxation on dividends was passed on. Stoltenberg knows that the Workers' Party only a few years ago actually went against double taxation, and that they had a very heavy reason for this. It was only the SV that was for it. What has happened since then? – I have to ask the representative Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e352	I think the problem with the government parties is that they're not equal to the equal, to say it like this. What needs to be done is to take into account that with the new estimates of tax revenue and of expenditure on social security, it is possible to spend about DKK 2 billion more on other areas without increasing the use of oil revenues. Of course, it's nice for all parties that stick to the rule of action. Then it is possible, for example. for the Workers' Party to increase the rate of the minimum deduction by one percentage point and that means a clearly better social profile and lower tax for people with low incomes, both pensioners and employees. Therefore, there is a better distribution profile in our arrangement than in the arrangement of the government parties. They spent these two billion extra dollars primarily to finance lower taxes for them with the highest income. The 3,000 richest people in Norway get about 250,000 dollars in lower taxes with the regime of the government parties. We don't think that's a particularly good social profile. So to the issue of taxing dividends on shares. Our problem was that the tax reform we had adopted in 1992 was undermined, not missed by the many proposals of the current government parties for holes and associations. This allowed many individuals to change their income from labour income to so-called capital income, and then to take out large incomes of 28 pst. flat tax. Then we said, well, when the old tax reform is so swept through, not least by the centre parties and the right parties, we introduce a dividend tax, and we work with a better system, which makes us get a better and fairer distribution and ensures good framework conditions for Norwegian businesses. Until we get it, we want to keep the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e359	Let me first say that I thought it was nice that when you have managed to calculate up to a few billion extras compared to what the old government had, the Labour Party used part of it to reduce taxes for the lowest paid. There was something the Labour Party forgot in the election campaign. But I would like to reiterate that it is still far from the significant tax relief proposed by the Progress Party for those with lower revenues. But I have two questions for Jens Stoltenberg, among others. from the demands and wishes we expressed to the Bondevik Government during the negotiations. One is about married pensioners. Is it still the Workers' Party's view that it is fair that married pensioners get a basic pension each of only 75 pst. of an ordinary pension? Why does the Workers' Party hesitate to punish people who are married in terms of pension size? There we have never heard any other view from the Workers' Party. We had hoped that the government would meet us significantly, but we have not heard anything about removing that curtailment on a principle basis, and that married pensioners should have the same pension as others. The second requirement and wish have actually been met today, as I understand it. In the evening post today it says: «Shipping away the private hospitals». I had expected that if you first meant this, it might have come as an offer during the negotiations, because it was high on our list. But now it's at least coming, and I think it's fine. Has the Workers' Party now abandoned its ideological resistance to private hospitals? Once the Progress Party has fought for 15 years, the single-price financing under the name ‘intervention-based financing’, the payment for an operation, does the Workers' Party accept that a private hospital should receive the same payment for an operation given to the public hospitals from the Rikstrøgdeverket? Have you now taken a settlement with your old-fashioned socialist ideology about this, or are you stuck in old-fashioned thinking?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e370	Firstly, I think it is right to correct the impression that the representative Hagen is trying to create, that with a lower tax on low incomes, this is something the Workers' Party has come up with now. That is the third year we now have adopted reductions in the tax on low incomes. The Labour Party got to it in the budget deal with the central government for 2000, we got a separate salary deduction that only worked out for low incomes, and now we've got three consecutive years of increased minimum deductions and deductions for those with low incomes, and when there were two billion extras available, we did even more. So it's just completely wrong that this is something new. I can refer to articles and lectures that I have written myself, about the importance of reducing taxes on low and medium incomes, and the Workers' Party has been able to see through for several years in a row. But when we got extra money, it was possible to do a little bit extra, nothing new, but reinforce what we had already put into the budget for the next year and in the budgets for the previous two years, and that's why we're going to continue in the years that are coming. In terms of curtailment of pensions to married pensioners, there is a system that has been there since 1967, or since the dawn of popular fear, and that has been based on a broad political consensus between all parties so far, given that it is somewhat cheaper to share, for example. housing costs of two than if you are lonely. At the same time, we see that this may seem unreasonable to many, that the rules may not be good enough, and that is why it is one of the issues that the Pension Commission, which is now set up, has been given the task to look at, and one of the issues that the Workers' Party will discuss and discuss if we are going to do something about, and in what case. In the case of hospitals, we have used private hospitals if they do so within public plans and public priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e379	It is not unnatural when a party has gone on an electoral defeat as the Workers' Party did, to self-recognizance: what would you have done differently, what would you have done better? And I notice that the Workers' Party has adjusted the course more in important areas both through the first budget that was put forward after the election defeat and in what came after, and in important fields the course has been adjusted more towards what SV was engaged in in in the election campaign, and we appreciate that. The Labour Party suddenly discovered that there has been no policy on distribution for very many years, and has now, through the extra money brought up by the Bondevik government, taken action against poverty. We appreciate that. You have also argued wisely about why the dividend tax is right, and we are happy about that in SV. In one field, SV has also met, and it is in the view of state ownership – not necessarily that the country should own, but in the view of national ownership. It has been written in the setting together with the SV and also the Center Party, that the mandate requested by the Bondevik government, if a large-scale privatisation of large parts of the business we have, is to be withdrawn. But at one point I've been surprised by the spokespersons of the Workers' Party, and that's the last bank we have, DnB. We have put in a proposal that says you have to take a break in thinking before you sell DnB further down, simply because otherwise we are in danger of not having a bank service anchored in Norway at all. I noticed that Stoltenberg last day on TV took on self-criticism that one has allowed the credit fund to be sold abroad, and my challenge to the representative Stoltenberg is as follows: In line with what has now been said in the financial position, namely that one does not want a large sale of the state's property, just out of fear that this should only happen to foreign hands, in line with the fact that one now recognizes that the credit fund should not have been sold, one now agrees with SV that it may be natural to imagine a more long-term race for how to secure national ownership, and thus wants to withdraw also this power granted to sell the state's holdings in DnB?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e390	Firstly, of course, I'm glad that SV mentions elements in our budget line with a positive tone, it's always nice. Secondly, it is not new that we have measures for better, fairer distribution and to help the economically disadvantaged. It was in the last year's budget, and of course it was in the budget we provided for next year. If you take with you the billion we set aside for cheaper and more kindergartens, it was about DKK 3 billion in our original budget proposal that was to the benefit of those who have difficulty – it's about housing measures, it's about labour market measures, it's about helping disabled people and getting sick back into work, and it's about lower taxes for those with low incomes. When we got the extra, we're over 4 billion. Then we've always added 1 billion to the nursery bet. But whether you count in one way or another, there's a significant amount of money in our original draft budget to fight social injustice, to help those who have the most difficulty, and there's even more money now, because there's simply more money at your disposal. As far as the credit card is concerned, I have not said that I regret what we did. What was my point of referring to the credit card is – and I hope that everyone has learned – that even though a third is formally enough to ensure that it is not purchased, we know that it is not necessarily enough. And we believe that each enterprise needs to be assessed separately. There are arguments to admit private capital, there are arguments for listing, but there are also arguments to ensure strong state ownership, for example. ensuring a national anchoring of holdings. And what I have warned against was the impression that at least many in the government now created that you should go down to a third in Hydro – that's what you actually suggested – and a third in Statoil. Then I am afraid that the next step is that there will be a pressure on full sales, and that will be unfortunate for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e400	History writing is not easy in either short or long term. When the Stoltenberg government laid out its budget, one had done something with the top tax. It was consistent with the election campaign, and it was good, but one had done little with the lowest incomes. It was a tightening of the lowest income. So a priority was the top tax and the regulation of it over the lowest income. It had a potential for that. It's not like Stoltenberg says, that he didn't have money at his disposal. A regulated first top tax – it's a historical truth. Stoltenberg has great confidence in the Ministry of Finance, and that is often the reason. Here we have a table that shows «The expected benefit effects of the adjusted tax regimes of the government parties measured if. the reference system and AP’s adjusted proposals.’ It states that on the two lowest it is equal, in zero, and otherwise there is an advantage to the government’s proposals. So it's a table from the Ministry of Finance. Stoltenberg can borrow him afterwards. His presentation here must be incorrect, otherwise we have to make independent look at this. So on the history story: When Stoltenberg took over the government, the first thing he did was cut down SND more dramatically in the district measures than it's done from this government. We're not talking about that right now. So let's see, 34 pst. What were the realities they presented to Telenor before the summer? At that time, one in less than two weeks' notice had to write down the state's part to 34 pst. Otherwise Telenor would not be able to operate in an international market. Then it was vital. Many of us thought it was an irresponsible short term of treatment. We did it anyway, based on the government's clear nudity that we had to do it. I thought long-termity was good, I thought memory was something I should cost myself. I also thought the representative Stoltenberg would do that in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e413	First of all, I recognize 100 pst. that we've raised what's called the entry point for the top tax. I believe it was wrong to start paying a tax of 289 000 kroner. I believe that top taxes are something that should start working at least over average income, and therefore we have now raised the entry point so that at least it gets over an average income. Of course, there are a lot of people who earn less than the average, and that is why, over several years, even in the 2002 budget, we have proposed increased minimum deductions – increased deductions for those with low incomes. These include: a point where the government parties ignore. First, they have a lower rate for the minimum deduction and second, they halve the deduction from the union quota, which is NOK 900 in deduction, which benefits 1.5 million employees. It's also cutting a minimum deduction that has an unfortunate social profile. So based on the calculations we've got, there's no doubt that we have a higher rate of the minimum deduction, of course, giving a better distribution profile than if you have a lower rate of the minimum deduction, as the government has added. My point when it came to assistance was the paradox that the government – which boasts of its aid efforts – despite the fact that different changes in the estimate of tax revenue and expenses on popular security allow them to increase the use of money over the state budget by DKK 2 billion without spending more oil money, does not spend one additional penny of the 2 billion on aid, they spend them primarily on lower taxes for those who earn the most. It says something about political priorities and choices that are not in line with the Christian People's Party at least tends to embellish itself with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e424	In this debate, the Labour Party is as keen as just newly converted people can be. They have cried out their indignation over cuts in district aid and little tax relief to them at the bottom of the table. Even cuts in agricultural transfers have been lamented. And it's been unusually surprising and joyous. It'll show up if it lasts. The Stoltenberg budget six weeks ago gave other signals. The cut in the top tax was four times cut in the minimum deduction. And Foss did not power more highly taxed in fact, but he doubled the injustice by removing the dividend tax. Stoltenberg also cut into district support, but only half of what Foss did. A year ago, the Finnmarks rebellion started. People were startled that the Workers' Party would modernise hundreds of important jobs. This process is moving fast enough," said the Right Council today, and then it is clear that it is moving quickly. The Workers' Party centralized the ownership of the hospitals, the Workers' Party sold the Bank of Credit and the Workers' Party part-privatized Statoil. This went fast, but it was with solid support from the Right and the Advance Party. The Labour Party made the positive move in the new agricultural policy, and it was not only with support but with applause from the Right and the Advance Party. On this background, I would like to ask the representative Stoltenberg: Is it a permanent or just a temporary reversal we are witnessing?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e435	The working party is not reversed and therefore it is neither permanent nor temporary. We stand on the values and policies that we have always stood for. It is entirely in line with our policies over many years to contribute to a more balanced distribution and to contribute to an active district policy. This is why Norway is also one of the countries in the world where we have managed to maintain housing in districts to a greater extent than almost any other western industrialised country, and that is why we are also among those countries in the world which spend the most on maintaining housing and employment in the districts, and that has not least helped to ensure the Workers' Party. This is why Norway is also among the countries in the world with the evenest distribution of income and the lowest proportion of the poor. The problem is, of course, that for those with poor finances, and for those with economic difficulties, it is a very poor consolation that there are fewer of them in Norway than in most other countries. Therefore, there is no argument to reduce the efforts of those with economic difficulties, that it is worse in other countries. On the contrary, it is all the more important that we also solve the poverty problems we have in Norway. Once we've made sure that so many people are doing well, we also have to be able to raise the minority. The Workers' Party has meant a long time, and of course the Workers' Party will continue to think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e440	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e443	The proposals made by the cooperation parties to the State budget represent a new course for Norway. After a few weeks in the government offices, the Co-operation Government has promoted changes in the budget, indicating that one is now taking the first steps to equip Norway for a new future: We have indicated that in a wide range of areas, we want to reduce taxes and taxes, which increases individual freedom of choice and at the same time improves the framework conditions for business and job security. State ownership needs to be reduced and at the same time professionalised.The public sector needs to be modernised to provide all of us with better services and welfare. This is to mention some areas and measures in which the Co-operation Board will launch a new course. The purpose of the co-operation administration was to contribute to the long-term and stable economic development of the country with the proposed budget. The Government has therefore taken into account a phased-in of the return on the petroleum fortune that is in line with the adopted rule of action. The use of oil money is therefore phased in in such a way as not to create an increase in pressure in the Norwegian economy, thereby weakening economic stability. The government has thus provided the basis for a decline in interest rates. The submitted budget from the Government has also been met with positive signals. Chief Inspector Tormod Andreassen of SpareBank 1 The Group expressed the following opinion on the budget: ‘The government’s proposal for a State budget is an improvement in relation to the Stoltenberg proposal. This should be positive for interest rates.» The opposite, too expansive a budget, could give a still high interest rate, or at worst an interest rate rise. This would be unfortunate, for example: because high interest rates hit the hardest those with the least, e.g. young people in the start-up phase, in addition to competitive business and also municipalities and counties with large loans. It is therefore important and correct that the Government shows firmness in relation to the rule of action. Through its policy, the Co-operation Board will facilitate increased economic value creation in mainland Norway. That's absolutely necessary. Our significant gas and oil revenues will not last forever. It is therefore important to increase the economic value creation in mainland Norway so that it can bear the welfare state once our petroleum revenues end. The change in the course of the co-operation administration is precisely taking into account for the first time in many years to ensure that the underlying expenditure growth in the government budget is lower than the growth in the value creation in mainland Norway. This sounds a little complicated, but in everyday terms it means that we get a balance between what we create and what we use. It will be for us all a reasonable delivery gel attached to our private household. Of course, this also applies to the state as such. It provides security for the future. The cooperation parties have really tried to get a majority to support this budget. In this respect, it was natural to contact the Advance Party, as they also supported the change of government. It is only to note that this time it was not possible to reach such an agreement. Of course, it would have been the very best, both for the process and for the budgetary procedure here today. But that was not possible. I just want to emphasize as well as I can that the actual negotiations were conducted in a tidy and real tone, but it was just to accept that the distance between us in the understanding of, among other things. the financial instruments were so large that we did not get them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e500	It's going to be a string shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e503	Yes, we heard online the leader of the largest government party pink what the government Bondevik had achieved at the time they had ruled. That's the job of a parliamentary leader, so it's okay. Another part of the job of the parliamentary leader of the largest government party is to get multiples for the government's affairs here in Stortinget, and we heard Netz Nilsen say he didn't. The adoption of the budget without a plurality and the need to threaten cabinet issues in order to get it through cannot be a favourable situation for the parliamentary leader of the Stortinget either. So I want to ask him if he's happy to have it that way. Today, when we heard the Prime Minister pay so much attention to the rule of action in relation to the use of oil revenues he has made – and the Prime Minister Nilsen also repeated just how important it was – and Hagen, who is to be entrusted with the adoption of the budget, said that this rule of action did not seem to him, it seems that such rounds should also be continued, in the next budget. We're going to discuss how much oil money is going to be used, and the government's party is going to discuss with a party that doesn't care that we have an action rule. Does Nilsen not see that this is a challenge that could be more difficult and more difficult to tackle in the context of the budget based on the support of a party that is completely unbalanced in the financial system?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e514	I tried in my contribution to stress that of course it would have been a great advantage if we had succeeded in bringing together a majority of the budget here in the Chamber. At the same time, I also tried to say that we did everything we could. We tried, but at the same time you have to respect that the distance between us was as great as it was. I disagree with much of the approach of the Progress Party to economic policy in Norway. Now, economic policy is not an exact science. But you disagree with the Progress Party on the use of the rule of action and what is there – I agree with that. At the same time, however, we also gave much in the negotiations. The representative Sanner listed in yesterday's debate what we put forward. The Progress Party could receive a reduction in excess of its own shares in blue prescriptions, a refund scheme for seafarers, measures to combat crime, lower taxes for those earning the least, a VAT compensation scheme, a change in the ISF scheme. We opened up structural changes to find a solution to the defence and also opened up a possible binding agreement with the cooperation parties and the Progress Party. - That's how far we're going. I fully accept that it was not enough for the Progress Party, but this was the craft. Of course, we should have done this, but we believe that we did the best we could. And once again, I stress that there is enough considerable disagreement – there I agree with the representative of the Workers' Party – between us regarding the use of the rule of action, how much money you can spend in the Norwegian economy without having consequences for you and me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e523	Historical tax reliefs, said Minister of Finance Foss yesterday. It's also repeated today. I do not associate it with any very large piece of art to be able to obtain tax relief when people in this country have experienced continuously for 10–15 years tax increases. The representative Nilsen pointed out in a reply to the representative Stoltenberg from the Workers' Party earlier today at the 12 billion DKK that was in tax and tax increases this year, and in a way criticised it. Then it is interesting to see that the tax relief that comes for next year does nothing but put us back to 2000. So overall, the Co-operation Government budget – if you look at it over a little time – does not mean some tax relief of any importance to people in this country. My challenge to Nilsen concerns promises. The right was not the party that was most restrained in the election campaign when it came to promises. It might be interesting to hear the representative Nilsen now draw up a certain list of priorities for the Norwegian people: what taxes and taxes are now highest on the list of priorities for the Right – for example for 2003? Are we going to do something about the document fee, the housing tax, the tax relief for those who earn the least? And not least: will the Right now follow the Advance Party, for example. with regard to the removal of the property tax law? Property tax is now a national hazard, and municipalities are introducing and increasing property tax, which is a totally unsolvable tax, especially on pensioners. It is also interesting to note that the representative Nilsen, who was formerly the head of the Committee on Transport, does not mention in his post a one-word movement. Does the representative, Mr Nilsen, really think that what is in the Co-operation Government budget is an effort for transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e535	I hope it's not going to be my main task today to go to the pulpit and set up the tables for the different parties. I have just pointed out that Stoltenberg's manufacture of taxes is incorrect. And now, unfortunately, I must also go to justice with the Advancement Party. That's not what was said about the increase in tax. It's like if one of the total bookers did it, it's something like 6 750 million. kr, while the tax relief in the current year is probably NOK 7 billion. So it's simply not right that the representative of the Progress Party points out again. You have to read the numbers – I have the documentation here, so if the representative Sandberg wants it, he has to get it! With regard to the priorities of the parties in the next year's budget, I would just like to say that of course the Right is concerned that there will still be tax reductions in Norway. What that means is, of course, the Government through its deliberations, and also related to the Sem Declaration, to decide. But there must be no doubt that the further developments associated with this will be such that the Progress Party will also be able to be satisfied with the direction. I believe that when we see this in relation to the budget presented by the Stoltenberg Government, the Progress Party will also find that this budget, which is now being presented by the Cooperation Government, is better. I have also noticed that the representative Siv Jensen has said several times that it has gone in the right direction. So in that way we're on the right track, but of course it could be more. I stress that our room of action for what we could get to this time was as we refer to, but in the future we will of course see to it that it is also taken in the right direction, but I stress in accordance with the statement we stand around, the Sem declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e542	It is interesting to hear from the Right parliamentary leader, who is very pleased with the state of things and very pleased with what has been achieved in a few short weeks in the government offices. It's just a little bit of a hook on everything, and it's that you don't have a majority. And when you listen to Oddvard Nilsen's posts, this is a post that he could in principle have held in any right-wing union or any other body where there are right-wing voters and right-wing members present. It's interesting to note both, sir. Truer and Mr. Nilsen's articles. I experience these as pure, old fashioned right-wing posts held from this pulpit for all years. You emphasize the exact same arguments, but you sit, as I understand it, in what is not a pure Right-Registration, but a government with several parties present – and with the little chin, as I said, that you don't have a majority. I am amazed that a parliamentary leader of the largest government party can go into the staging room and be so bold and so very satisfied and even performers to say that they have equipped themselves for a new future for Norway. Of course, it sounds great – except for the small chin that you don't have a majority. My question to the representative Nilsen will then be: Is he comfortable with a government that enters the main hall with a minority, who do not have a majority, and who must use cabinet issues in their first budget for – most likely – to force this in place? Is he comfortable using coercive means to save his first budget? And how do you see, sir? Is the Nilsen aware of future developments when this coercive agent has been used once and is likely to succeed in the course of today's debate? Is this a tool that can be used several times, or does it mean that, in essential political issues, one will now put even more to the right in the hope of achieving a better climate of cooperation with what is allegedly the settlement partner today, namely the Progress Party? How does he see the practical need to deal with this in the future? This will, of course, be a continuous balance between humiliation and support as long as you have Hagen on the tow.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e551	I initially believed that the rhetoric should be the common thing that we have heard from SV in the hall associated with the Right as well as having got everything in the Government and the other parties nothing. Now enough the representative from SV moderated something. The truth is that when the Progress Party attacks us from one side and the Labour Party from the other side of this draft budget, I think it is right that the Prime Minister said that we are quite well placed in the middle. When it comes to the question of the use of cabinet questions in the hall, I would like to stress what I said in a previous line. Of course, it would have been absolutely desirable that we could go to the hall with a different situation, where we had a majority. But I stress that it was therefore not possible to achieve what we thought was reasonable for Norwegian economic policy. It is also true that the cabinet question institute is there to use it. It is up to the Prime Minister himself in each case to assess when he wants to use it. I think the Prime Minister has given a clear and straightforward explanation as to why he believes today that this is the right time to take advantage of it. I have basically nothing more to add to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e560	In the evening post Last night, there was an article that said that the Oslo schools get 100 million. kr more for operation. This shall be financed by selling more of Oslo's heirloom in the form of shares in the municipal energy works, in order to avoid painful cuts. In Os municipality outside Bergen, 90 years' work is threatened, i.e. 120 employees, due to the difficult financial situation of the municipality. There they have to cut down on the service provision, and planned rehabilitation measures for the elderly are among others. pushed out in time. And there they have sold most of what can be sold. In Bergen there is a proposal to close hospital wards because one does not have the means to run these departments. In his reply to a previous reply, the representative Nilsen said that they should also give priority to tax relief in future budgets. Then my question is: is the representative Nilsen concerned about the development in Kommune-Norway, where one has to reduce the provision of services in the care of the elderly? How does the Right in the Government think to face this negative development? Will the Right, as the Centre Party has also proposed, consider this possible with a liability to the municipalities as a possible solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e569	When you read through the budget setting, you'll see that there's probably a slightly different perception of reality between the Center Party and the Right and also the Cooperation Government. I guess that's not surprising for anyone. When I spoke in my post about taxes and charges, it is also true that there is a world outside Norway. Norway is going to compete with other nations, and I am of those who believe that it is impossible in the future to have a tax system that differs in particular from the countries with which we are going to compete. You might like it or you might not like it, but that's the reality you have to relate to. In fact, the only way to make Norway robust is to ensure that companies in Norway remain here and that some companies come here and establish themselves. They do so only if the framework conditions in Norway are the same as in other countries. I believe a different approach to this will only lead to the wrong place and will create less economic development in Norway, stagnation, which will greatly affect the sector in which the representative is engaged. It's the total values that we create in society, that can be used as a whole, and that are also the income that municipalities can get. Finally, we are living by creating something in this country. And that's why it was so important for me in the line change instead of stressing that we have to continue with tax reductions, so that we get down to a level that makes us competitive as a nation. That's the attack point for everything. I understand that some municipalities are struggling. At the same time, it must also be noted that this government has continued and also strengthened the municipal economy significantly for next year, so that it actually gets in bag and bag. Good framework conditions have been established for business, which creates a good circle and increases the economic value creation in Norway, which will enable us to use more in the sectors in which the representative was involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e576	I registered that Oddvard Nilsen in one of his lines framed what he defined as significant concessions from the government parties in negotiations with the Progress Party. I can only wonder if it was such that it came as a surprise to the government parties in the negotiations with the Progress Party that we actually wanted concessions of such a nature that we were also visible in any budgetary settlement. Does Oddvard Nilsen think it is the Progress Party's job in negotiations to speed up what is already mentioned in the Sem Declaration and the Government's Declaration of Accession, i.e. policies that the Government itself has said they want to promote for the Stortinget? Or does Oddvard Nilsen think it would be more reasonable in a negotiating situation to give the Progress Party an impact on something the Government initially did not agree with, which, after a budgetary agreement, would appear to be something the Progress Party pushed forward, and thus could reap glory for after any agreement had been reached? When it comes to budget negotiations, it is important not to limit oneself to symbols but to actually deal with realities. Because that is what the budget is about. It is about making tough priorities, changing the daily lives of important groups in society for the next year, for ordinary people. That's why the billions battle is so important. Is it reasonable then that the Progress Party should be satisfied and satisfied to be allowed to sit in the sandbox and play with at the base of 1 per million of the state budget? Or do you think it would have been more close to reaching an agreement if the will to move from the government parties had been something greater and the concessions were a little more than what we saw in the budget negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e585	It is true that the word ‘significant’ has different values in relation to where you have to be and who uses it. I stand firm that we gave significant concessions. But I also admit that when, after the Stoltenberg government went off, it had three weeks to turn around on an entire budget – and we give significant tax relief – the room that was left to meet the demands and wishes of the Progress Party was, of course, less than it would have been if we had made the budget ourselves. In fact, I am asking for an understanding that the space for action was too small according to what the Progress Party wanted. But it's because of the situation that you only had three weeks. And I think we had to do a considerable amount of work to get the budget changed. But the room from which it was possible to give something was too small. And it was also important – and we have had a discussion of that in the past – for this government to show firmness in terms of the rule of action. It is important to give signals in Norway that this government is pursuing a stable, good economic policy that provides a basis for interest rate reduction. I admit that honestly and honestly. It may not be quite right either – without my going into it – that there was nothing in the offer that was not in the Sem-Declaration. I'm not going to go into it in detail, but I think that in retrospect it's going to show that, yes, that's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e592	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e595	Let me begin where Oddvard Nilsen escaped. Only with regard to the negotiations and what was told to the media: it is quite correct, as Siv Jensen pointed out, that the government parties during the negotiations – and this has emerged because the right-wing people themselves have said so – made a proposal to implement a new form of funding for kindergartens on 1 August next year instead of the following year. They offered to cut the house tax over three years instead of four years. It was then said that the Progress Party had met by moving 3.6 billion kroner. It was just that it wasn't on our wish list. That's not what we asked for, plus that it didn't have any real effect on kindergartens or any effect that affected people next year. Instead of taking away our long list of wishes – we had given them a menu where they could choose what they would meet us on – we meet up with something we don't ask for, and then you try to imagine poor destitute journalists that you've been kind to the Progress Party. It must have been a lot easier if we had looked at our list, especially as regards what I said before today: today the Minister of Health has met one of our important wishes, namely to open up input-based funding to the private hospitals as well. It would have made an impression on us. I do not understand that you did not bring it in during the negotiations, but only afterwards. So to something else Oddvard Nilsen said. He said that the room for action was so limited. The state has NOK 173 billion in surplus on its budget next year. We would like to give approx. NOK 40 billion in tax reliefs, which we financed with a cut of NOK 20 billion. We then reduced the profit from NOK 173 billion to approx. NOK 153 billion. The country had done well with a surplus of NOK 153 billion. In fact, other countries have deficits in their national budgets, as opposed to Norway. Everyone's jealous of Norway, because we have a good economy – but we have a political majority who haven't discovered it, and who later like we're some poor people! During the negotiations we said that it is ok if you cannot reach that far – it has not been brought with us by Arve Överby in the VG. In reality, we said that if we in the budget for next year get changes of NOK 6 billion in tax reliefs to those who have the worst in the country, if we do something to eliminate excesses, get a few more medicines on blue prescription, then we were satisfied with it! 6 billion kroner – we could reduce the profit from 173 billion kroner to 167 billion kroner, this would have been in a box. Then you talk about having no room for action. And as far as this rule of action is concerned, no one in this room is able to define what it really is. And here's what I'm talking about the tailoring and weaving economists in the Ministry of Finance -- tailors and weavers were like I said those who made the emperor think he had such great, nice clothes when he walked around naked. It's got some economists okay! I'm just going to read a little bit from the national budget – and that's probably not a good idea, but I'm going to do it, so you know a little about what this really is about: the structural, oil-corrected budget balance, which everyone else here in this room is headed by. Here's what it says: ‘Since the National Budget 1987, the Ministry of Finance has used the change in the so-called oil, interest rate and activity-adjusted budget balance as an indicator of the budgetary policy arrangements. In the calculation of the indicator, income and expenditure assumed not to affect the level of activity of the economy were excluded. The oil, interest and activity-adjusted budget surplus was generated by correcting the oil-corrected government budget surplus on interest rate flows between the State and the Bank of Norway and between the State and the rest of the world, on transfers from the Bank of Norway to the State budget, on income and expenditure attributable to the current economic situation and for some accounting conditions, such as: changes in government accounts. In the short term, developments in the budgetary balance sheet will be significantly influenced by the economic trends in the Norwegian economy. [[activity correction]] In order to balance the budget for the effects of changes in the cyclical situation, the budgetary impact is calculated because activity in key areas differs from trend. This activity correction provides a measure of the revenue from taxes and charges, etc. in relation to a normal cyclical situation. Table 3.1 shows that, for the whole period 1999 to 2002, the tax revenue of the country is assumed, etc. to be higher than if the activity in individual areas had followed a trend trend for the relevant tax bases. The correction for revenue from taxes and duties etc. is, however, intended to decrease and estimated to be 5,1 billion. crowns in 2002.’» So this is the terminology that the rest of this room uses. – This was crystal clear, wasn't it? Here, for 2002, the budget of the Stoltenberg Government has drained SEK 5.1 billion, as it says. Because taxes and taxes are greater than trend developments and normal situations should be mentioned, we're going to pretend we don't have them. In the previous years, the amount that was tricked away has been DKK 10 billion in 1999, DKK 11.7 billion in 2000 and DKK 6.7 billion in 2001 – i.e. real tax revenue entering the treasury. And then you say you lack money – except for oil money, which you cannot use, because they are corrected away, by tailors' and weaver's economists! And as I asked before today: if then the international situation causes significant problems for the Norwegian export industry, and unemployment grows to 150 000, then this so-called rule of action is so that no more money can be spent, neither for tax cuts nor to increase the activity of employing people. Then the rule of action is a rule for paralysis! And it can no longer continue to be governing, as it has been in recent years. Of course, there are limits to what should be used in the Norwegian economy for interest rate reductions and things, but a change like the one we proposed, of 1 pst. by the budget, 1⁄2 pst. of GDP, in order to provide some tax relief to those who have the worst in this country, will have some overall impact on the economy, is meaningless – and especially when the governor has said that if we reduce taxes and taxes, it will dampen the price rise. And when you primarily control after the price rise, that's the bigger basis for getting an interest rate drop. And finally – in this area: how can it be that when a former government could spend $7 billion to pay debts to the Gardermoban, and when the last two governments, including the sitting, use $18 billion of oil money – to take the exact amount: $18,705,000,000 – to cancel debts in connection with the state's acquisition of hospitals, that's not what oil money is used? While the Progress Party makes identical proposals to cancel the debts of the toll companies so that Norwegian drivers do not have to pay tolls, then there will be chaos in the Norwegian economy! So it's something that's really remarkable somewhere. I said, according to the first thing I read, that they're correcting for the impact on the activity of the Norwegian economy. At least we must also be able to start using money to buy goods and services abroad in the Storting, without having any impact on the level of activity in the Norwegian economy. The actual situation is that the economists and the Ministry of Finance themselves are correcting for what they are doing, but the Storting must not have the same opportunity, because then, in fact, the Storing might start to control the economy, rather than the tailoring and weaving economists do. Now it is time for Norway's big business to take control of the economy back and use some common sense. Clearly, de minimis changes in the total economy do not have the dramatic effects. We also know that, because when we look at the accounts the following year, it's often the way you've been wrong about both 10 billion kroner and 15 billion kroner. So it's spent 10 billion kroner and 15 billion more than estimated, or taxes and taxes have been much higher than estimated, without having any impact on the economy. So my appeal is that the National Assembly and the Government will soon have to take back the governance of the economy and politics. So you're saying that you're correcting activity, and you're steering by something that's now called the structural oil-corrected budget surplus, which is impossible to verify. It's just like someone sticks their finger in the air and says, "We estimate that the next year is going to be like this and that. In our opinion, we cannot allow the so-called rule of action, where we start the budgetary procedure by saying that so much oil money can be used, is the basis on which the rest of the budget is drawn up. We have a huge surplus, and it should benefit the people more through the fact that we should charge slightly less taxes and taxes on them with the lowest incomes, and then we should do something for the sick, the disabled and the retired. That's the arrangement that the Progress Party has had as its starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e626	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e629	The entry to the representative Hagen was now a good example of how demanding it must be for the government parties and the Progress Party to agree on budgets in the coming years. There was an entertaining harpsichord with the «scratch and weaver economists» in the Ministry of Finance. There was a lot of error in the presentation of how the budgets are set up and managed. But what is politically important is that the parties to the government, and I fully agree with the parties to the government, have said that they should follow this rule and that it is absolutely essential for them. It must then be a problem for a party which is completely divided in the main lines of economic policy, to see to it that budgetary agreements are made and to agree on economic policy with parties that have a completely different view. That's what in itself is the politically important message in the post from Hagen, and that's why the representatives of the government parties look as serious as they do, even though it's quite funny to listen to Hagen. In addition, I would like to say that what Hagen has done is, after all, a tradition that has made Norway one of the best countries in the world to live in too many – not for all – and that the United Nations has called out to the world's best country. This does not mean that there are no shortcomings and weaknesses, but it still means that there is much we have done in this country, which is related to us, among other things. has been able to conduct a responsible economic policy. The Progress Party tends to pay tribute to an independent central bank and tends to pay tribute to the market. The independent central bank and the market strongly disagree with the Progress Party on the use of oil money. Interest will be set if the economic policy of the Progress Party is implemented. It will affect socially very unfairly. This will affect businesses, and it means increasing housing costs and increasing interest rates for hundreds of thousands of people in Norway. That's why it's good that the Advance Party supports, that's an irresponsible increase in the use of money, does not have a majority in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e641	It was nice that Jens Stoltenberg thought I made an entertaining contribution. There may not be so many entertaining posts coming from this pulpit, so it has to be all right sometimes. But he could not refute the content of any of the things I referred to. I read out his own national budget, where it says in the table that the oil-corrected surplus on the state budget – that is, it is the ordinary one – was 3,766 million in 2001. kr, while what he himself has presented this year, is 36 billion kroner. So it's completely wrong to say that you've only increased the use of oil money by NOK 7 billion – it's increased by 33. But someone has corrected away, so people don't want to see how the terrain of the economy is. Jens Stoltenberg spoke about the government's problems. As for what Jens Stoltenberg said earlier about the use of cabinet questions, I actually agree more with the Prime Minister than with Jens Stoltenberg. It is clear, as former Prime Minister Willoch also experienced in the mid-1980s, that under the old system the government did not have the instruments it has under the new budgetary system. We want the old system back -- we think it was better. But it is clearly a correct history that the Prime Minister has given. It is, in fact, in the parliamentary governance system, to take that as well, an instrument for the opposition that is called distrust of a government. And a government can put a case on the head by using cabinet questions. I think it is remarkable that more people in the Workers' Party and the SV are actually trying to make a completely false representation of the parliamentary management system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e650	I actually sat down tonight and read thoroughly through the representative Siv Jensen's contributions to the debate yesterday. I also think I have read very well the opinion of the Financial Committee on the economic policy of the Progress Party. I'm not a professional economist, but I've tried to get into and understand what the Progress Party is thinking, and why they come to the conclusions they make. And then what are the differences that lie inside? Well, for the Progress Party in this context, 39, 19 and 20 are the magic numbers. They spend $20 billion more on the Norwegian economy from the oil fund in what they propose. What I'm wondering about is, now that we've made this rule of action, which most of the professionals in Norway know me to be good, what's the most important thing about it? So I'm not an economist, but I have a lot of clues about history. I know that there are quite a few countries in the world up through the history that have had a significant surplus in their capital. All those countries have gone wrong. In fact, they have not been able to do exactly what the rule of action says, to see to it that capital is phased in at a reasonable pace in relation to the economy. We all know about the Dutch sick. If we go even further, we also know about Spain's enormous problems related to this. The most important thing is simply to have an instrument that ensures that we manage this capital so that future generations will also benefit from it, and that it is phased in so that the Norwegian economy remains stable. Then I wonder a little bit: when everyone else in this room, and economists, thinks that this is right, could it perhaps be that the Progress Party was wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e657	It's probably sometimes called that the one standing alone is strong. And I recognize Oddvard Nilsen from the adults in the "Keisen's new clothes", who walked around and said, "He has such beautiful clothes. We asked a polite question to the Ministry of Finance recently – because it is strange that when we have proposed to reduce the petrol price in this country by $2.50 in terms of reducing the tax, we have heard the argument that Oddvard Nilsen has now argued, that it means pumping money into the economy, because when people pay less for the petrol, they get more money for other things, and then it's bad. So the gas price has now fallen due to the market forces and the lower oil price, by approx. 5 billion on an annual basis. Then you would think that those who are so terrified of reducing the price of petrol in terms of reducing the rate of petrol would do something, but you don't. The answer is that lower petrol prices alone will help to improve household purchasing power regardless of what is behind the decline in petrol prices. However, within a defined budgetary framework, a reduction in the petrol charge would have to be matched by lower costs or increased taxes in other areas. We're thinking a little bit more common sense. If we reduce the petrol charge, we will reduce the document fee, a little bit on the inheritance fee, a little on some other charges, for example. On alcohol, the effects in society will be that people get better advice, just as they now get. Why do you have to correct for something if people get better advice because taxes are reduced, but when people get better advice because some goods get cheaper? And when we say that lower alcohol charges would actually lead to a reduction in border trade and the establishment of, and perhaps a protection of jobs in Eastfold, Hedmark and elsewhere, someone is going to come and say that it is going to be wrong. We're actually using a little bit of common sense, and we haven't heard any logical explanation about the system you were running after before, where it was the real terrain of the economy that crashed, and not a map that was made by some economists. Then it also went relatively well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e664	The Prime Minister has asked cabinet questions, which the leader of the Progress Party Carl I. Hagen skillfully avoids answering in his post. Instead, he uses his speaking time for a violent rowing – and not without points – about the so-called rule of action. But there is no doubt in this Chamber that the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen are going to stand up so that the Government of Bondevik will continue when this day is over – and therefore Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party will vote for this whole rule of action that is so incredibly ridiculous. Then it is Emperor Carl who may be standing there without clothes when evening is over! I actually think it's quite interesting for the voters to see what it is now the Progress Party uses its power to, when it's such that in the evening they're going to save the government of Bondevik. The progress party has gone into fan formation with a huge number of demands for this government, and has got through very little. But the direction of the Progress Party for today is primarily that they should have the attention themselves, that Carl I. Hagen will be on TV whenever he wants, and not about any demands that are terribly important to many voters. Many voters believe that if you vote in the Progress Party, you get to do something about the pensions. If the Advance Party wanted something done with the pensions, it was, and not a humiliation from or a demonstration of power by the Advance Party, which was the important thing. But no such claim has been made in Hagen's articles. If it is the case that today's pension rules are a frenzy of married pensioners, why does the Progress Party not come with a demand for it to be corrected in order to be able to vote in favour of the Government's budget? That's not gonna happen. This is an act, and I hope that the voters of the Advance Party understand that it's not the result for the voters who count for the Advance Party, but always be at the center of attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e671	Kristin Halvorsen now takes the same amount of mistakes in most of what she now says, as she took when she said she didn't believe that the bombing of Afghanistan would produce positive results. In fact, I believe that our voters have greatly appreciated the fact that, during negotiations with the government parties, we have just stood very firmly on that we have to achieve some reduction in and have as our ultimate goal to remove the curtailment of pensions for married pensioners that we should have Aricept into the blue prescription we would not accept 3.5 pst. increase in the overall share of health services that we would have net pay arrangements for shipping companies and maintain the reimbursement scheme for seafarers that we would zero out all the tax increases that are still in the budget that we would not go in to tighten up the car tax and remove the removal of the moving car scheme that we demanded 1 billion kroner in extra tax relief for them with the lowest incomes that we demanded a reduction in the electricity charge that we demanded a reduction in the alcohol charge to bring the border trade to life that we demanded more money for the justice system, for the police and for road construction. I actually think our voters have appreciated that we've been hard on it to get it done. And when we – and here you want Jens Stoltenberg as a witness of truth, and partly Kristin Halvorsen himself – got such a poor and little offer from the Government on these central things for most people, we couldn't go in to support the budget. It is quite clear, as Kristin Halvorsen says, that when the Prime Minister has asked questions about the cabinet, parts or the main content of the voting basis will be extended to something far more than the budget. And it is clear that when our group at the group meeting this afternoon is going to discuss our voting this evening – which we should in any case have done – each member will decide for himself to what extent the cabinet question will have an impact on the voting. But it's actually also a purpose of cabinet questions like system, and that's also the way in case it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e711	Some of the joyous thing about several of the posts of Carl I. Hagen’s representative today — and also earlier — applies to the mention of ‘mads and tissue economists’. The reference base has not been good enough for me before, but I realize that it's H. C. Andersen, and the literature interest and cultural interest that we now see all of a sudden in the Progress Party, I think is a positive innovation. So we're taking it with us, that's a good thing. So I'd like to further philosophize a little bit about this usage of the rule of action. When it comes to a part of the points that Hagen's representative has, I agree with Kristin Halvorsen. It's clear that at least they can be self-contradictive in isolation and individually. But, with a little bit of a simple approach, if it's true that there's $20 billion more that comes into the economy -- I understand that one actually is quite in agreement -- then it'll have to be a problem with prices and wages, because we actually have almost full employment. So if one in addition to the rule of action accepts $20 billion into the Norwegian economy, there must be a problem also for the representative Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party. That's what I think he's easily skipping. To the next comment: most analysts -- I shouldn't say everyone, but most -- most economists, and also Norwegian Bank, seem to share these assessments, so even if it were like Carl I. Hagen is right, we would then prevent an interest rate drop and maybe even get an interest rate rise on top. Wouldn't that be regrettable, anyway, also, for the representative Carl I. Hagen?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e720	It was nice that the representative Lilletun was pleased that we referred to the literature. We could also include "A People's Enemy" of Ibsen in that context, because there's also a lot of similarity points. But we won't get straight until a few years, I think. It tends to take a few years before we usually get right. 20 billion dollars into the economy, says Lilletun, as if it's completely immaterial how they get into the economy. So it's a change in the economy of 3 pst. You talk like we're doing dramatic things. That's 3 pst. relative to GDP – 3 pst. change. And when it comes into the form of lower taxes, what effect does it have on prices and wages? Well, a beneficial effect, according to the governor himself, who has pointed out that lower taxes will dampen wages and prices. It is clear that the price effect of lower charges will be that prices will go down, as everyone else argued strongly when reducing food prices – we agreed. By reducing VAT, lower prices would be achieved. It is clear that when we go in for tax relief, the prices go down. And if prices go down, the wage requirements for spring's wage settlement are reduced, because everyone who goes into wage negotiations knows that it's purchasing power after price rise and tax that's the basis for the individual requirement of the employees. We have the technical calculation committee that determines inflation, and then you calculate how much you need to have of gross wage increase in order to get an improvement in their net purchasing power after price rise and after tax. And then, when we also reduce the tax burden, it works well on the wage settlement, because you can't demand so high a gross wage increase, and then you'll get a second round back on the basis that the companies don't have to increase their prices as much as they do with the wage settlement. So when we use some oil money to reduce taxes and taxes, it only has a beneficial effect on both prices and wages, and it provides a better basis for interest reduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e727	It was entertaining to listen to Carl I. Hagen. I must say that I marveled, having listened to the description of the excellence by giving the Gardermoban debt to the tunnel company, at the fact that the Progress Party could not support the Senter Party's proposal to give 12 billion DKK of debt to the municipalities, so that the municipalities would be able to run a better school, a better care for the elderly, a better community health service and better kindergartens. It has not been possible for the Progress Party to take part in this. Carl I. Hagen said in his reply to Kristin Halvorsen that the Progress Party had made tough demands in the negotiations, and that the Progress Party had to achieve something to support the draft budget. But what has the Progress Party actually achieved? Well, you've made suggestions like Carl I. Hagen himself said would help the government implement the Sem Declaration, and you've got an offer of 580 million. kr, while the Prime Minister in the budget negotiations with the Labour Party last year contributed to the move of as much as NOK 20 billion. Then I have to ask Carl I. Hagen the following question: How does it feel to have ensured through the change of government that the Right now has the power to implement its policy, that even in some cases it can be thought that the Left with its two representatives will have greater influence than the 26 of the Progress Party, and that the role of the Progress Party is reduced to Carl I. Hagen will be allowed to keep entertaining posts in this room from time to time?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e736	First, with regard to the proposal of the Central Party to reorganize municipal debt, our main reason is that there is a huge difference between municipalities and municipalities. There are many municipalities that may be indebted because they have built a fantastic new town hall or a dense cultural house, while other municipalities have been cautious and have built up elderly care facilities and have poorer town halls and poorer cultural services. To clear the debts of all, regardless of how governance has been, would be most unreasonable to the municipalities that have managed taxpayers' money in a sensible way. That's one of the main reasons for that. But it's strange that those who have been involved in eradicating debt do not seem to have any real budgetary justification for why the cancellation of a debt is in order, while the cancellation of another debt is reprehensible. Then, unfortunately, I have to give Odd Roger Enoxsen justice: we achieved very little during the negotiations, and therefore the negotiations did not take place. We faced the dilemma that if, through an agreement, we were to commit ourselves to freedom of action in the Committees' further consideration, it had to be because during the negotiations we achieved something like the monnet, in order for us to vote for it voluntarily. We haven't. I think the voters are fully aware that when you don't reach the absolute minimum you need, there will be no agreement. And it hasn't been. Then there was a situation in which the voting basis was extended to include the existence of the Government. I have noticed that the Prime Minister himself has said that it is an instrument that cannot be used too often. Then it's probably the way the Prime Minister sets a quota for how many cabinet questions can be asked, and it's clear that then the meaning becomes smaller and smaller, and finally you come to the last. If it were to have any influence on our voting tonight, it would anyway be nice to bring it in later times and new battles. Perhaps the government will then be something more acceptable the next time we will negotiate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e745	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e748	Let me first begin by apologizing to the representative Lilletun. I said that even the representative Lilletun jumps when Carl I. Hagen says hope. It could be interpreted as if I was in doubt whether he was physically able to jump. Of course it wasn't like that. But I have realized that the representative Lilletun is not a traditional right-wing politician, so I thought he had some political problems in jumping under the direction of Carl I. Hagen. But he didn't. So to some of what I think is more games and speculation in Norwegian politics than the voters deserve. The sentiment that we have just been through is not about the realities that the vote at the end of the day will contain. It's about us in a situation where Norway has a Right-Maintained Government, and where Carl I. Hagen is now inviting to some kind of quota negotiation on how many cabinet questions can be asked during this government period. What's interesting is to look first at what kind of politics the government itself is leading, and then at what kind of rule Carl I. Hagen allows. There is no doubt that this is a government with a Right-dominated policy. The billions are the right to decide. We have a government with a majority of Right-State Councils, with a strong man in the position of the Minister of Finance, Per-Cristian Foss, who determines the billions of economic policy, and then of course there will be a few million to the Prime Minister's party. It was supposed to be missing. We are in a situation where Jan Petersen is Minister for Foreign Affairs and determines foreign policy. It's pretty much a nod when Bush says nod. So if you jump home when Carl I. Hagen says jump, and nods out when Bush says nods, well it says something about this government's independent role. What's going to be Bondevik's role is to get the honor of going to Stortinget with even spaces and quiet cabinet questions. What this can lead to is four years of right-dominated policy put forward by the Government, a government that is totally dependent on sitting on Carl I. Hagen's grace, but where the game becomes such that Carl I. Hagen can force the Government to ask cabinet questions, and thus he is voting for a policy that he takes in all other contexts a sharp distance from and raids with as best he can. He comes in the situation that he is in full control of this government, what they are going to talk about and when, when to ask cabinet questions and where and in what cases, but is quite free to wash their hands and not take responsibility for the policy that the Government is actually running. It's a positioning that must be pleasant if what you have first of all on your heart is to be in the center of events. But it must be a betrayal of the voters of the Party of Advancement, who are actually concerned with results, many of whom now believed that the pensions they are dubious about are too low, could actually get a boost. It blows Carl I. Hagen in. That's not what tonight's voting is going to be about. Tonight's vote is going to be about who has power over this government, and who does not – not who will get, and who does not. At some point, someone has to ask the Progress Party questions, and I'm starting today: what do the voters get again, other than the entertainment value and Carl I. Hagen on TV, by voting on the Progress Party? Nothing! They just get the satisfaction by still being furious that nothing actually happens in relation to, for example, the distribution policy. We don't understand that the election result that the voters gave was a strong crowd on more Right-wing policy. What has happened from the municipal elections until now is not the progress of the Right. They're standing on the ground resting, they're resting. What happened from the municipal elections two years ago until now is the progress of the SV and the return of the Workers' Party. It's the biggest changes. That means that instead of this game and the spectacle, you should have a magnification that concentrated on some of the most important challenges we face. We need a significant expansion of public services in Norway. We are facing an older wave, and many will need much greater scope for the services of society. In order for us to do that, we have to have a tax-funded welfare state, where people see that they get something back for the tax money they actually pay. I think many of the voters who this year hit the table and maybe picked the right side, are willing to pay taxes, if they just see that they get quality again. The gaping paradox that many people experience is that they provide for the community, but the quality of what they get back is too bad – at school, at public health services, etc. It's a very big challenge. But then we also have to defend what's at the bottom, namely that if you want a welfare state where everyone has rights, it's wise and solidarity to do it together – pay taxes and get them back as needed. In many other countries, ordinary people pay in ordinary jobs, when they add up what they pay in taxes and in private insurance, much more than ordinary people pay in taxes in Norway. Someone's got to come up soon and defend it that way. But then, at the same time, strong demands must be made for what we think to be most important for the future to happen. Then the school has to be upgraded so that the standard of the public offer is at least on the level of the very many kids used to having at home. That's what's the signal for whether we have a community that can match what goes privately or not. Then it has to be that if you have a disabled child, you don't have to fly to a hundred offices – now I'm exaggerating a little, but not so much – to get help and support in a desperate situation. It's not a reality that many people experience. Then it has to be that if you are exposed to an accident, the public sector is so unbureaucratic that you actually get the help you need, and you don't have to study every possible paragraph and be more resource-intensive than most people in this room are, to get the help you need. This means that we need a public sector characterised by quality, but also characterized by shifting power and authority downwards in the system, so that it is possible to use your head and make flexible solutions for them. We think that a lot of people would like to be involved in something that's important for the future. We believe that many agree with us that we live in an unfair world. We think that many people agree with us that defence policy is something different now after September 11th than what we thought before. We believe that many agree that one of the most important things we can do for the future is to pursue an environmental policy that is so that the kids can take over a world from us that is better than the one we got from our predecessors. Then you have to make some long-term choices, putting the future ahead of present and tomorrow. We believe that many voters agree that we should not have a poverty problem in Norway. But we're not going to have a charity society, where someone is going to be in the hand to be worthy of need. In a modern society, poverty is a relative concept. In a modern society, poverty is about whether or not you can join the large majority of people. That's how you still have to measure it. We're worried when the government comes up with new signals about how to pick out worthy needy. What do the voters have to do? The voters are required to behave as elected representatives and to achieve the greatest possible results in the direction to which the voters gave their mandate. That's what SV will continue to fight for in this four-year period. We are fighting to get results every day here, but also to build alliances, so that this Right-wing policy can be replaced by the next elections. The government has asked cabinet questions today. It's to force Hagen into place and show who it is that has the power to say when someone is going to jump. It is quite obvious that this is a government that does not have our support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e779	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e782	SV is a party that I listen to with great interest in important parts of society. It can relate to health policy, social policy, the elderly, school, etc. That's where I listen to SV with great interest. But when it comes to defence, SV stands entirely on the sideline of Norwegian policy. I think they've done that once again over the last few weeks. We agree that our society is facing new threats, and that it will require changes in defence in a wide range of areas. Some things are no longer relevant as defence means; new steps must be taken in the defence work. There is no doubt about this, and a discussion and debate will continue for a long time in the future. I must be allowed to quote from the budget position, where SV says in the defence budget: ‘Norway also has a special responsibility, including: through the administrative responsibility of one of Europe’s largest food vats in our seas and vulnerable oil installations.’;» This is a recognition that SV does. Nevertheless, SV is in the same position to grant money for the purchase of frigates and MTBs. My question to Kristin Halvorsen is: no matter what we are about to discuss, what defence will look like and develop against new threats in the future, how can we defend our long coast and our oil installations without boats?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e794	The Kjell Engebretsen always has a nice tone. I hope that the tone can be developed and that cooperation can be improved. And I would like to thank you most sincerely for being able to talk a little bit about how we're going to manage and defend one of the world's largest food barrels that is really the most important job Norway has ever done in the world community. So we're in charge of an area of the sea that is approximately equal to that. 30 pst. of the whole of Europe's rural areas. And the situation you're in now is what the defense has really been with all the time since the end of the Cold War, that you haven't been able to get in place an understanding of what is defense after the end of the Cold War. Then you make such decisions as spending billions on billions on investments in frigates. The working party agreed with SV that we did not need MTBs, but we did. So then we get MTBs too – new billions. The paradox is that what was the situation for the Coast Guard, which is today the ones to monitor our sea areas, is that they lack money to operate. What are we going to do with all these billions of investments, when the bulk of the population has had no sense of how to secure the operation, to actually do the job? You should start at the opposite end: make sure you have a coastguard where the capacity that actually exists with the boats they actually have is so that they can monitor the coastal areas in a responsible way. Now it is such that at least three accidents that could have been quite large are prevented only by luck. Actually, we can't have it like that. And then what we mean is, a much more sound management in the face of the great challenges of the future than the majority of the population think.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e803	The representative Kristin Halvorsen has clear points of view and direct speech. I have a great sense of it. I also thought she was predictable and had actually written my reply in advance. She was not predictable today, and I appreciate that she had a wide perspective in her post. But Kristin Halvorsen asked, "What do the voters get?" The right made a good choice. The right is obliged to deliver to the voters part of what we promised. We've started taxing, we're going to go to school, and we've come a little bit on the way. But at the same time, right-wing people also have to accept that we're getting a little shut up from the districts around us – something on defense, something on SND, something on car tax. That's probably what it has to be. Because what was important now was that we could make a direction, we should pave the way, we've got an acceptance from our collaborators about a direction where we're going. And I don't think Kristin Halvorsen in the election campaign would think that what this government came up with as some of the most important things was: how are we going to solve the poverty problem, what are we going to do with the environment to try to meet the major environmental challenges, and how are we going to get at the same time an economic value creation that can really help us solve the big problems in the future? It is in the combination of tax relief and targeted efforts in the key areas where Kristin Halvorsen and I probably agree, poverty reduction and the environment. And we're going to be able to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e812	No, SV does not confess to the Right to get a pass on right-wing policy, and we find that the Right was also very far on the road, and succeeded well, in emphasizing the main profile of this government. Because when we go through the changes we actually managed to make in a relatively short time, it's clear that there's a strong Right-Stamp on this. When we go through the financial position and see what the Christian People's Party now thinks about economic policy in relation to what they meant when they were in central government, it's spectacular changes in the direction of the right. Yes, I'm such a good personal friend with some Right-People, too, that it's almost like I'm entertaining them a little bit. But not in politics, because there we have to be in a tough opposition. Of course, we're also going to tell you loud and clear where it is. And then we disagree. We disagree that the most important thing in our time is to move billions to those who are now receiving dividends. There are a few hundred people in Norway who get over 1 million. kr each of it. We know that there is nothing as biased as income from capital, and especially dividends to shareholders. Of course, it has to be fronted. There's a right and a left-wing disagreement. Now the Minister for the Environment has shown some promising approaches. And we boast if we have something to boast of. But that also means that it makes the height of the drop higher. We have great ambitions in environmental policy. It's one of the major challenges we have in our time. If Børge Brende continues to hit the table against those who blow up the climate challenges in the rest of the world, it's very good, and we're going to cheer him up, but we also make very clear demands to the Right in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e821	I'm glad that Kristin Halvorsen is so concerned that the Advance Party will satisfy its voters, because it's actually important for the Advance Party. And if Kristin Halvorsen has not understood why the Progress Party has been negotiating with the Government and has left those negotiations, then it is precisely because we have not achieved what we wanted for the Progress Party – for our voters, simply and correctly. What we wanted for our voters was just to raise the pensions and give those who have the least, more. We wanted to remove the state theft that has been from the minimum pensioners, so that they would keep the entire pension. We promised our voters that we would fight for more. We actually thought the government wanted that too. We didn't get that. We fought to get lower petrol and diesel prices for those living in the districts and elsewhere in the country. We didn't get that. We fought for a lower car charge in this country. We didn't get that. We fought to lower the taxes for those who have the least in this country, for those who have the lowest income. We didn't get that. We promised our voters around this country that we would deliver something in relation to the Defense, which we actually thought the new government, when we confiscated it, would do as well. We didn't get that. We promised to make it safer for people who want to walk the street in big cities. We promised that we would fight for more severe punishments. We didn't get that. We promised our constituents that we would fight for better health care and better care for the elderly. We tried with the government. We've tried all of this with the Government. We didn't get that. We put this government in the hope that they would deliver what they promised in the election campaign. They didn't keep it. But it's not a game. These are harsh realities. That is why we are today without a majority for a budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e828	This tirad is just one conclusion to it. It is to vote against the budget framework tonight and the joint Bondevik government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e833	The President would point out that the lines should have a content directed at the person who had the post.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e836	We have had many history descriptions today, and I think the story is described from the point of view of the individual. I want to challenge a little bit more on concrete things. I have noticed this year that the SV in this budget will not spend more money than the rest of the team here in the house, and thus avoid an ever-increasing repetition in the budget replica rounds. So I congratulate the party under the leadership of the representative, Mr Halvorsen, on the growth, and not just in size! The co-operation government has set up a budget to allow for a fall in interest rates, because it is very unfair when interest rates rise for the local economy, for people in the start-up phase and for others with high debts. The representative, Mr Djupedal, said in his statement that: ‘is important to use fiscal policies to tighten up where possible, rather than the anti-interest weapon, which is a very unsocial weapon’. Does the representative agree that increasing interest rates will make the situation more difficult for many of the groups that are close to both the SV and the Christian People's Party? Several hands in the work are a need that the representative, Djupedal, was also involved in his post. And I think the Storting often agrees on this. But what surprises me is some of the tools that the representative has taken up. Two instruments include: the reduction of the term of protection and the liquidation of the cash support. In a context with several hands in work, I think these are strange points of view. As different parties, in different cases, we can land on different points of view. I respect that. But often the reasons and arguments for the positions are very crucial to understand why a party believes this. And I have to say, to reduce the term of protection in order to get more people to work, maybe testify to a lack of overall thinking about our defence structure. And so does the cash support, the liquidation of this to get more people to work. Isn't SV willing to also assess the needs of children and families and see the cash support in a family policy context?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e852	It is true that SV is following the proposals of the Government of Bondevik and the Government of Stoltenberg for the budget for next year. It's not because it's a principle for us, but because we believe that from today's economic situation it's entirely possible in one of the world's richest countries to redistribute in such a way that one gets strengthened the sectors that SV thinks are important. There is a lot of private wealth among those in Norway who can be redistributed, both to those who have poor advice and to those common resources that we need to finance. The same is true of environmental policy. What must primarily be at the root of this is how society in general uses its resources. The current situation in the labour market is that in many areas there is a shortage of labour. In a situation of high unemployment, the rule of action would be far inferior to the SV's desire to use what is society's most important resource, by getting people to work. Then we would increase the use of oil money in the Norwegian economy. We are concerned that one has an ambition for political governance in fiscal policy. We have therefore disagreed with the next question on which the representative is involved, which concerns the powers of the Bank of Norway, and the level of interest we are going to have. SV believes that low interest rates are an important distributive policy instrument. But we don't want it to be a matter left to the governor alone, as it is actually done now on the basis of new guidelines – they're obviously not very new anymore. Then there are questions about the liquidation of the cash support – there is a Christian People's Party and SV never agrees. We believe it is important for young people to have a good kindergarten offer. We want to give priority to the 3 billion kroner that each year go to the cash support, to get Swedish kindergarten prices and an offer that all kids can benefit from.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e863	I can fully agree with the representative, Mr Halvorsen, that this debate seems to be becoming more of a game and a spectacle than the voters deserve. The problem with this is that the political road choices contained in the draft budget promoted by the Government come into the background of the whole debate. It's a pity that a debate is so strongly influenced by games from the different parties. One of the road choices contained in the budget is the choice that focuses more on tax relief and reduces the emphasis on targeted industrial policy and district policy measures. We are experiencing a budget that strips several rural policies, which means a dramatic reduction in SND, and which cuts – at the most original – on the agricultural side, simply balances the budget by cutting the negotiating framework under the agricultural agreement. We are experiencing a budget that will reinforce the tendency of centralisation in society. It is a question that should address several of us in this room, and which I believe occupies both the centre party and also SV and the representative Halvorsen. The new thing in this situation will not be that the Center Party and SV will be united on a good deal of things, but the new thing is that the Left and Christian People's Party will no longer agree with us. The trend of centralisation is also happening in the counties, by now having a state coordination/centralisation, so-called regionalisation. I am concerned that in the future there will be a need for forces in the Storting that speak the districts' case, and that are willing to stand for an active district policy. I have some hopes for SV at that point, and I think SV may be able to support many of the proposals that the Central Party is promoting about an active district policy. My simple question is precisely one of the proposals that the Central Party has made today, to which SV has not yet promised any support, to get an offensive and forward-looking relocation of state jobs from Oslo. These are suggestions that the Central Party is remarkably alone in the financial position, but I hope that SV will now support them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e875	I thank you for this kind line about everything SV and the Center Party can work together on. Cooperation, I think, is actually very important. I think it's important that the parties that are now in a clear opposition to this government, not only are concerned with blanking their own profile, but are concerned with having contact and respect for the peculiarities of other parties, and are also looking for areas where you can work together on an important policy. It's important because much of the test you're going to face in these four years is how much right-wing policy the Christian People's Party tolerates, and then it's important that there is an alternative that can challenge and say that it's actually going to get something else. It is not least important in view of the next major elections, whether there are opportunities for what can be a majority, if the voters will, to replace a right-wing policy – not just because we need a completely different political course, but because we need a big one and a government that can systematically work on what are the most important challenges for the future, so that it is not only left to games and speculation in the Stortinget, as we see it now, that is the course, but also the long-term. We have many common interests in the area of district policy. One of the most wasteful things we can do in this country is to pursue a strong policy of centralisation at the top of what the market is doing. The market is centralising, and is now driving policy and centralising as well. This means that many investments in District Norway are becoming obsolete and untapped, and there is pressure in the central areas – to the detriment of people in the districts, and to the detriment of people in central areas. We're concerned about reviewing the possibilities of relocating government jobs from Oslo, but we'd like to be more precise than what the Center Party is. We impose an obligation on ourselves to look at where it makes sense to create growing areas in different districts. That is why we do not agree with the Central Party on this proposal in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e882	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e885	The government of Stoltenberg presented a draft budget in which we agreed to strengthen Community solutions and reduce the tax on labour. I am pleased that the proposal received such a positive reception. The criticism came in particular in one area: the proposal to postpone the closure of the investment levy by six months. There is an assessment that a close-coordinator now seems to agree. Following the presentation of the budget, the Bank of Norway has expressed an increased likelihood of a reduction in interest rates. It is therefore important that the new government has joined the main device of economic policy. In its proposal for a State budget, the new government has presented new estimates for economic development. These estimates amount to around NOK 1.2 billion more than the estimates provided by the government of Stoltenberg. Of course, the working party will use these up-to-date estimates when dealing with the Storting. The Labour Party Government provided a budget that would improve the conditions of growth for children and young people. The bet on kindergartens is about $1 billion. There may be 10,000 new kindergartens, and the parental payment may be reduced by approximately NOK 4000 compared to the level in the first half of 2001. We presented a budget in which the appropriations for culture are escalated. We produced a budget with a strong commitment to upgrading worn-out schools, among others. through a new State financing mechanism. We presented a budget for increased health care efforts, with the follow-up to the hospital reform and greater funding for the health sector than ever before. We presented a budget for the continued development of care for the elderly, a budget in which we invited the Stortinget to work together to raise the most difficult of them through better work, better housing and better financial arrangements. We presented a budget with significant increases in development aid appropriations. I am pleased that the Government of Bondevik has supported these proposals. It's more interesting to see what changes – and in what direction. Here are two important observations. Firstly, when the Bondevik government had more money at its disposal than the Labour Party government, it chose to use it mainly for tax relief. The working party has chosen to use this money to strengthen its efforts towards the most difficult ones. And secondly, the Bondevik government has chosen to give the most to those who have the most from before. 9 out of 10 kroner paid in dividends goes to the tenth of the population with the highest income. All countries in Western Europe other than Finland have their own taxes on dividends. But Bondevik's main tax measure is to give $1.5 billion in tax bills to this group. According to the Ministry of Finance, the hundreds of the richest in Norway will receive an average tax relief of 1.4 million. kr each. But there are some people who have to pay for this. The Bondevik government proposed to take away the elderly and implement the scheme of free medicines on the blue prescription proposed by the Workers' Party Government. The Bondevik government proposed to take free school books from high school students, take $1,000 in scholarships every month from the students, take $34 million. SEK in housing grants from non-residents, take DKK 1 billion of mortgages from the residential community – according to the proposals of the Labour Party Government. That's why we also see clear differences between the two governments. There are two areas where there is reason to emphasise: the relationship with state ownership and enterprise and district policies. When the Storting in our long-term programme for the new ageing period, the Right stated: ‘These members will greatly reduce the country’s ownership of business’. There were no such statements from the Christian People's Party or the Left. But we've often seen the opposite. In the capital expansion of Norsk Hydro, the Christian People's Party and the Left promoted the proposal to empower the government to increase its ownership to 51 pst. The right went against it. Now the government proposes to go down to 34 pst. In dealing with the state's involvement in Nammo, the Christian People's Party and the Left asked that the state increase its ownership to 51 p.m. Right would decrease to 34 pst. Now the government proposes 34 pst. In the partial privatisation of Statkorn Holding, the Christian People's Party and Left would sell down to 51 pst. Right would sell everything. Now the government proposes 34 pst. And so we can keep going. Even more clearly, we see this in regional and industrial policy. Here, too, we saw clear differences in the treatment of the long-term programme in ours. The Christian People’s Party and the Left then stated that there was a need for ‘increased focus on regional policy instruments’. The Right and Advance Party stated: ‘There is no commitment to public business support and package of measures but investment in infrastructure and a general improvement in the company’s framework by, inter alia, reducing the level of taxation and taxation.’ Has anyone heard it before? Bondevik's first government boasted that, according to them, they were ‘in the process of implementing the largest regional policy effort in the 1990s.’ The second government of Bondevik proposes a cut in the regional policy instruments of 350 million. kr. The total cost of the products in the food policy is DKK 1.7 billion. Mr Bondevik I proposed to strengthen municipal nutrition funds. Bondevik II cuts all such support. Mr Bondevik I proposed a new major effort on regional coordination. Bondevik II cuts all such support. Mr Bondevik I proposed increasing support for water quality in farms. Bondevik II cuts all such support. Mr. Bondevik I proposed a gas and vegetables defrosting. Bondevik II cuts all such support. That means that the price of petrol and diesel increases by up to 50 cents per cent. litre in northern Norway, fuel oil with 60 ear. The price of fruit and vegetables increases by SEK 1.25 and the price of milk increases by 20 ears. Air transport charges are increasing in North Norway except for Tromsø and Bodø. The Labour Party Government proposed a strong strengthening of the fishing industry. Bondevik II cuts this. All – absolutely all – the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries’s appropriations for SND’s development programmes are cut. Programmes for the development of the marine sector and for the development of the IT industry and the development of e-commerce were also cut. Everything – absolutely everything – is cut. That's what's called innovation. A new policy is at least that. This is a transformation of the food and district policies that to date have been widely agreed between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. So we can ask the basic question, is this what the Big One wants? We've got choices, and we've got a new big deal. However, for none of the areas of regional policy, industrial policy and state ownership, there is today a different majority from the majority before the elections. The government says it has retained its commitment to health, the elderly, kindergartens and assistance. Here a majority of the parties in the Stortinget support the proposals of the Labour Party Government. The same applies to the increased effort for the most disadvantaged. These are areas where the Working Party and the Centre parties have relatively easy to find together. Bondevik's most important victory, according to the line change instead, is that it is not cut into the aid. But where the government implements a new policy, it is not because it is a new majority in the Grand Duchy. Both in district policy, in industrial policy and in ownership policy, the parties that used to be a majority still have a majority. The difference is that the Christian People's Party no longer believes the Christian People's Party has meant, but now it means what the Right has meant. The Christian People's Party ensures the Right majority for a policy that only the Right and the Advance Party want. Therefore, and only for this reason, what is now happening is happening. It is a political choice, which is not the result of the people's elections to the Grand Duchy, but of the Christian People's Party's elections in the Grand Duchy. And that is why Bondevik has made himself dependent on the support of the Advance Party in voting later today, because no one else can support the Government for a policy that has, in fact, only the Right Party and the Advance Party have been in favour of earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e983	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e986	I register with the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen's posts now and in a media essay that the Workers' Party has suddenly become the district spokesperson. I will dare to make the claim that the Stoltenberg government will hardly be remembered for its good district policy. We may have recovered that former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg was visiting Vadsø this winter in connection with the people's uprising and just got critical of his district policy – so the hat fits. What the Stoltenberg government might be best remembered for is that it left behind Europe's highest interest rate. The level of interest rates is very important for individuals, for companies exposed to competition, which are mainly located in the districts, and for the municipalities of Norway. We know that the district councils have the highest debt per year. the population. Economists agree that the draft budget of the Cooperative Government will provide a good basis for reducing interest rates. I would like to ask the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen whether he does not believe that a lower interest rate is good district policy and will benefit the districts of Norway. The Co-operation Board proposed to remove the passenger charge on aeroplanes. If this fee were to continue, it would have to be introduced on a number of routes in North Norway that are currently exempt. This would have resulted in a price increase of over 10 pst. on some flights in North Norway. How did the Workers' Party intend to prevent this formidable increase in the price of air travel in District Norway if the passenger fee was not to be removed? Finally, the Stoltenberg government had added 35 million. kr too little to move the Coastal Directorate from Oslo to Ålesund. The question that then arises is: Does the Workers' Party think it is bad district policy to move the Coastal Directorate, with a number of functions linked to the Coastal Works around the country, out of Oslo? Or would the Workers' Party have thought of ignoring the decision to roll?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e997	Let me first just remind the representative Robertsen that it was the Workers' Party who proposed to relocate the Coastal Works, so that we can put that debate to death. Of course, on the issue of the level of interest rates, I agree that the level of interest rates is important in all parts of the country. This is why the Workers' Party has placed very great emphasis on pursuing a responsible and long-term economic policy. We have given an anchoring for such a policy through the rule of action that we proposed at the end of March, to which the Stortinget has given its agreement, and which has today been welcomed by the spokespersons of the government parties. I am pleased that the new government has not changed the main arrangement of economic policy, that it has not allowed time to use more than the rule of action. This allows for a decrease in the interest rate level. I note that the Bank of Norway, following the submission of the draft budget of the Labour Party Government, has expressed an increased likelihood of a lower interest rate. Then I register that the representative reminds us of the so - called district uprising in Vadsø. It may also be allowed to recall that the main reason was concern about the future development of the county. It was clarified by the working party government's arrangements in the task message. It was also clarified by a majority vote in Stortinget. The right is known as the depopulation of the county, which was the cause of the unrest among the population of Vadsø. I register that the Minister of Municipal Affairs is now putting up with a policy contrary to what the majority of the Grand Duchy has previously stated, and that she has stopped the transfer of tasks from the county office to the county municipalities. So the question of the passenger fee. It might have been interesting to ask the representative Robertsen: which airport in Finnmark has a passenger fee? There isn't one. On the other hand, the airports in Finnmark have something very significant, they have a deduction of VAT paid by the airlines for their expenses. This system of deduction has been proposed by the Right-Maintained Government to liquidate. This means that charges for air transport to Finnmark and the rest of North Norway – with the exception of Bodø and Tromsø – will increase. I think that's very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1013	It was interesting to hear the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen. It reminded me of the cow who had forgotten that it had been calf. This was also taken up by the previous replicator. The representative of Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen points out that we are now moving away from a district policy on which there has been a broad consensus, i.e. the Labour Party's district policy. Then it's interesting to see what's happened in the districts. Now we've had an uprising, and we've never experienced greater deportation from the districts, never have the districts had such poor earnings, never have the districts had such a poor culture structure, and that's because of the district policy that has been widely agreed upon, as Schjøtt-Pedersen says. I also record that Schjøtt-Pedersen has an undertone that we are now putting ourselves on a course with a policy that only the Right and the Advance Party stand for, only the Right and the Advance Party. I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party has made the worst choices of the times, and overall, probably the Advance Party and the Right will have a greater upturn from the election result than the Workers' Party has, and this is due among other things. regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, I want to challenge Schjøtt-Pedersen in one area in the end. That is what the Workers' Party has flagged high in relation to this budget, and it is deducted from the union quota, which for the 1.5 million workers that Stoltenberg pointed to earlier today will amount to approximately. 20 dollars a month. It's very important for the Workers' Party, I understand. Then my question becomes to Schjøtt-Pedersen: What does he think these employees would have preferred – a 50-piece less in the petrol tax or 20 kroner a month less in the union quota?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1028	I have recorded that there has been a strong commitment – the individual will call a rebellion – in many areas, based on the desire for a stronger regional policy commitment. There has been a desire for stronger use of district policy instruments, a desire for delocalisation of state activities, and a desire to ensure further activity, among others. counties. The Labour Party put several of these pieces in place very significantly by clarifying the division of tasks, by having a very active policy for the relocation of state activities, and by maintaining strong regional policy instruments. I note that both in the course of the long-term programme last spring and in the treatment of the district notification, a majority of the Stortinget expressed support for such an active district policy. The Christian People's Party, the Left and the Center parties even expressed the idea of strengthening the regional policy effort, even beyond what was left by the Labour Party government. Therefore, I find it difficult to understand that what this government is proposing is in line with what has been wanted by a majority in the United Kingdom. It is not a majority in the UK that has expressed the desire to cut the regional policy instruments by 350 million. kr. It is not a majority in the UK that has expressed the wish to cut the instruments of business policy by NOK 1.7 billion. To the extent that it is a policy that has a majority, it is only because the Christian People's Party deviates from its principal views and gives the Right majority for a policy in these areas, which only the Right and the Advance Party initially stand for. I think that's sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1040	The representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen is a real finnmarking, he knows what district policy is – at least he knows what district is, it is certain. He comes from an area and from a county where all the municipalities, with the exception of Alta, experience a relocation. This year, as Schjøtt-Pedersen sailed in, it has even been a revolt of its own in Finnmark, where ordinary people have said that now it is enough, now we want the Storting to do something about this relocation. We don't think about it anymore, they say. We in SV agree with those who say that. Year after year we have said that we have stopped pursuing an active district policy here in the country. Over the last 20 years, it's been abandoned. You've got huge messages. There have been so many messages that you could have dug yourself into them. But one has not shown the will to trade. Schjött-Pedersen points out that it was in the message, and it said in the message – yes, it has been very good in the message – and if we had done what had been in the messages, it would have been very good district policy in Norway. But when you have to implement it, there's nothing going on. An example is what Schjøtt-Pedersen had to say about shipping. I know that the Labour Party has removed 60 million in the draft budget. kr in freight effusion – a dramatic decline, so too, sail if it was not as strong as that of the new government. I know I've been talking a lot about district policy since I got into Stortinget. I'm also going to keep doing that, until I get more people to realize that we can no longer be on the desertification that's now happening around the country, where there's a section with a magnet at the bottom that looses people from District Norway down to central struts. My question to Schjött-Pedersen is: Does Schjött-Pedersen agree that we need to have a new district policy here in the country that is completely different from the one we have been conducting for the last 20 years, and does Schjött-Pedersen agree that a power cap must be taken to prevent depopulation in Finnmark and in the rest of District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1053	I believe the representative Ryan and I very much agree on both the strong commitment to district settlement and district activity and the importance of our active district policy. I don't think we need a new district policy in relation to what was drawn up in the district announcement that was dealt with in the Stortinge in ours, and as a majority that joined. But I think we need a continuous development of district policy. And I think we're going to have a common recognition that the challenge we're facing in securing the main features of the housing pattern and equivalent living conditions is ambitious. It is a demanding objective, and it requires, on the one hand, that we continue to facilitate policies that can create new activity, on the other, in business and on the other, in the public sector, while at the same time insisting that, in the national priorities, we use relatively considerable resources to have rural policy instruments that build up under such policies. The Labour Party has done so, and there has been a broad majority in the back of the Storting. That's why I think it's sad that it now seems to be a majority – as a result of the cabinet question – for such a cut as the Government has now proposed. The Labour Party government made several new moves. One of them was a clearly stronger commitment to the relocation of state activities. I think that is an essential instrument. I think it is important that new state activities have been added to places where activity that was previously there has been abandoned. At the same time, we must seize the new opportunities. One of the greatest opportunities we have for development in District Norway is investment in the marine sector, investment in the fishing industry. That's why the Workers' Party offered to increase the research effort in the marine sector by 60 pst! Then I think it is serious that this government commits to cutting research efforts and cutting the rate of development programmes in the marine sector. It was just where the growth would come to ensure activity along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1062	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1066	‘Modernisation’ has been a key word in the policy debate in the last year. The Stoltenberg government created significant expectations about the modernisation of the public sector. On the other hand, the results have been omitted. The co-operation administration has ambitions for modernisation and transformation in the public sector. The aim is to provide better quality of the services under public responsibility. The public sector and public services exist for each of us. The state is for the population, not the other way around. The cooperation parties will have a public sector, which is service-oriented, efficient and tailored to the most diverse needs and needs of the population. Increased user orientation, clearer responsibilities between administrative levels and improved accessibility through new technologies will contribute to better public services. People should be given greater opportunity to choose who is to provide the services for which the government pays. Modernisation is a long-term and comprehensive work. This work must be based on the principles of a simpler society, population needs, wholeness and diversity. Modernization is not something you do once and for all. It's a continuous process, and the one that thinks you've modernised is not modern, but finished. The world around us is changing, and we also have to change. If we set off in a rapidly changing world, we will reap stagnation. The result will be poorer value creation, increasing unemployment, poorer health care and elderly care, poorer schools and kindergarten services, poorer cultural services and less choice. People most require freedom of choice and quality. They no longer understand political detailed regulation and a public sector characterised by A4 solutions, cows and chaos. This has been taken up by the Government. I am therefore very pleased that the Government of the New Year will make a specific presentation to the Storting on the objectives and main principles of this work and also explain the various strategies, processes and instruments involved in this work. The government invites a cross-political effort and debate to improve public service provision for the population. In kindergarten development, we face two main challenges, which the Minister for Children and Family was also involved in yesterday's speech. It's completing the build-up and reducing the level of parental pay. This is the broad political consensus on it. There is also agreement to provide more funds to the nursery sector. The 2002 budget proposal represents an increase of DKK 1 billion. This effort is essential to improve the operational situation of kindergartens and to reduce parental payments, both in public and private kindergartens. In addition, there is also room to increase the commitment to quality development. The Co-operation Board will continue the draft budget of the Stoltenberg Government, with the aim of changing the main instrument — public funding. We have recognised that it is not realistic to achieve the objectives of full needs coverage and lower parental pay if we are not willing to do anything about the instruments. It's not enough just to give more money. A new grip must be taken. Therefore, the Cooperative Government will provide funding and bring together all government grants into a State grant. Finally, art and culture have a self-esteem and are crucial to our personal development and quality of life. There is a broad consensus in the Storting about the importance of and the focus on culture. The co-operation administration will focus more on the arts and culture of public spaces, schools and workplaces. It is important that the interest and commitment to art and culture are stimulated locally and developed from below. The vitality and scope of cultural life and public engagement in cultural policy shall contribute to this. I will come back to this question also in the context of the debate on the cultural budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1085	The debate we have been going through so far has been largely about political games and policies and less about the political choices that are actually in the budget we are dealing with today. I think it is important to discuss some of the most striking features of the Government's draft budget. One of the most striking features is the reversal of the budget for the broad majority we have had in the United Kingdom in terms of a targeted business and district policy. In the central government, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left took on a number of stakes in these areas. We increased overall appropriations for regional policy measures, and we strongly focus on industrial policy developments, including: through SND. In our draft budget for 1999, the rural policy framework was DKK 2.3 billion. Today it's reduced to NOK 1.6 billion. We put heavily on municipal food funds, because we thought it was an important drag help to get new projects up and go. The whole scheme is now proposed to be removed. All those who have received a letter of commitment about funds can hang the letter in glass and frame on the wall and look far after the realization of their projects. The central government chose to put funds directly against a series of targeted bets that have now been removed or severely reduced. We see that funds for institution grants, interregional actions, SIVA, business parks and conversion funds are being reduced. In addition, all the SND schemes that are also heavily reduced in the budget, and not least the means for developing nutritional measures in the marine sector and research schemes, are greatly reduced. This means that we will have a time in the future with more unpredictable conditions for business in the districts. What one needs to ask is when one sees the profile of regional and industrial policy measures in this budget: what has changed? What is the consequence that the Christian People's Party and the Left now have a completely different view of these questions than the one they had just a few months ago? Is there any significant other challenge in District Norway today than it was six months ago? Nope! Are there other challenges for small businesses and district-based businesses? Nope! I see that the Prime Minister, among others, in replying states that the Government has proposed other measures that will have an impact in the districts. However, the transport investments proposed by the Government will, with few exceptions, go to the central strata, and they will largely go to national road investments. Of the total, it's only 10 million. kr that is going to go to North Norway. This is not a genuine district measure. With regard to the dividend tax, it is true that the central party has also been in doubt about it, but it was the Bondevik I government, the central government, which first launched dividend tax as a means of cushioning. When you see that Oslo and Akershus today receive 1.1 pst. of regional policy measures, but receiving 42 pst. of the gain by removing the dividend tax, and when one sees that North Norway receives 41 pst accordingly. of the regional policy measures, but will only receive 4 pst. of the benefit of the liquidation of dividend taxes, one has to wonder whether it is logical to impose dividend taxes on regional policy measures. That is what has been done in this budget. The cost of abolishing dividend taxes has been re-established by reducing regional and industrial policy measures. It has a strong impact on District Norway. The policy we are facing in these areas is probably a misguided and desirable policy. The Minister of Economic Affairs said clearly in the evening post some time ago that this is not just about budget cuts, this is about a change of course. One shall be separated from a selective industrial policy and from a general tax relief. But it is with some wonder that I have to note that the representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Left also do not object to such reasoning in today's debate, whether the reasoning breaks with everything that these parties have coexisted with the Central Party over the collapse and government of recent years. So the new thing about the situation today isn't that the Central Party can come together with the Workers' Party and SV on some district and industrial policy issues, the new thing is that the Christian People's Party and the Left are no longer with us. I note that this change of course – if it is allowed to continue, as the Minister of Industry calls for – will threaten active district policy and threaten many of the targeted business activities that have been so important to the district industry. I demand the will to take district policy seriously, and I fear what may come in the future in terms of proposals to live up to the announced price change, and also to cover further requests for tax relief. More clearly than ever, there is a need for regional policy spokespersons here at Stortinget, who can also follow closely what this government is going to propose.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1106	For the Left, it is important that this shift of government involves a much more offensive environmental policy than the policy pursued by the Labour Party Government. The Minister for the Environment has taken offensive action in the Sellafield case and in the climate policy, oil and energy ministers have thanked for ensuring pollution-free gas power plants, and the Minister for Transport is betting on public transport. In addition, the Government increases the provisions of the Environmental Fund by DKK 1 billion. Cooperation management has also taken the poverty problem seriously, including: by increasing the child allowance and housing allowance, and by providing lower taxes to those with the lowest income. The left is satisfied with the increased efforts of the Government in its drug policy. The Left proposed a crisis programme against overdose deaths in the spring, but did not get an impact on the Stortingen at the time. But now the government takes hold of this in a whole new way, so it can satisfy. The task of repatriating the dignity of the most vulnerable in society is stepped up. It is also positive that voluntary organisations receive an additional 100 million. kr next year. The organisation life in Norway makes an invaluable effort through voluntary work. No one gets as much activity out of each krone as voluntary Norway, where most work is put into voluntary engagement, without paying off. An active organisational life is also a prerequisite for a living democracy and a local environment with strong networks. The left will release the voluntary organisations from state overgovernment and build up under the freedom and independence of organisations, so that volunteering does not become a public entrepreneurship. The government has maintained the strong increase in the investment in culture, which was also reflected in the proposal of the previous government. The Left and the Government want to further turn the cultural allocation against more diverse and greater voluntary efforts on the cultural side. The debate and many newspaper headlines show that envy remains the main factor in Norwegian policy. For many, it is obviously more important than combating poverty. It is pointless to claim that the elimination of double taxation on dividends is a gift to the richest, as part of the opposition does. The removal of dividend taxes is an important measure to secure money for the development of Norwegian enterprises, and to prevent spending on housing and private consumption from being more profitable than in enterprises. It must be possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, both taking care of a good distribution and at the same time ensuring future value creation, jobs and well-being. Incorrect claims are not more correct because they are repeated more often, especially regarding the Workers' Party and the SV's claims that the Government's budget is a Right Budget, where the Christian People's Party and the Left have no influence. If it is the case that a stronger commitment to welfare and poverty reduction than the Labour Party has done is a Right Budget, whose increased appropriations for environment and public transport are a Right Budget, of 100 million. More to voluntary organisations, is a Right Budget, whose increased resources to drug addicts and society’s weakest, is a Right Budget, whose strong commitment to culture and assistance is a Right Budget, whose full rejection of the horror scenario during the election campaign related to kindergartens, labour market measures, care for the elderly and school is a Right Budget, and whose increased tax burden to those who serve at least is a Right Budget – yes, the Left must be satisfied with the Right Budget. For the Left, it is also important that a new course in education policy be given. The Labour Party has for decades made reforms that are being pushed down across the school. The next school reform should come from below by releasing the creativity of teachers and students. Yes, the left wants to set the whole school free. The budget is a cooperation in which all three government parties have put their mark on the budget and are satisfied with the result. It seems strange when, among other things, The Labour Party claims that there have been minimal changes in the budget, while using harsh words about how terrible the budget has become. Then it is violent how strongly these minimal changes have turned out. It is also interesting that the Government's proposal is subject to strong criticism from both parties in politics: the Progress Party on the one hand, and the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party on the other. The Progress Party believes that there is too little right-wing policy, and the Workers' Party and SV believe that it is too much. Such strong criticism from both wings signals that the Government has presented a balanced budget, which is able to reconcile views on business and jobs and the desire for an active welfare policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1125	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1128	The representative, Skei Grande, said in the evening post on 5 November this year: ‘We are going to have a free school.’ But the Bondevik government budget is not a budget that contributes to free schooling. The government is removing the increased appropriation for free teaching material in high school. Tax relief for those who have the most is given the highest priority by the new government. But someone got strong cut, and the students were among these. The Bondevik government cut off support for the school book lending scheme without providing any scholarships for the students. Students and their families are charged thousands of kroner in extra costs. For families with ordinary income, this means that the tax burden becomes more than consumed. The students refer to this as a rail and a lifting breach. The student organisations have protested, and 15,000 students and students demonstrated their dissatisfaction on 19 November. This protest has even joined the Young Left. Does the representative Skei Grande understand the frustration that students feel? The election campaign gave the impression that all the government parties went in so that the school books would be free. Now you come with strong cuts. ‘Taxes and schools’ were the slogans of the government parties in the election campaign. Then we warned that it could easily become a lot of tax havens and little to school. We look at the proposals of the right-wing parties to the state budget and the Oslo budget, it's obvious that we got it right. Last year, the urban councils cut up to NOK 5000 per year. Students in Oslo Schools. The left says they'll make the school free. That kind of freedom will probably most people want to be ahead of you. After first refusing that there was something cut, finally the town council then said Skei Grande that she should be “honestly honest”, and she admitted that it had actually been cut. And now we see that the parties on new kutter banghardt in the school budget in Oslo. With a project on values in everyday school life, Bondevik II will strengthen the dissemination and awareness of values in school. I would like to encourage the representative Skei Grande and the government parties to start with themselves and be honest both before and after elections. Great schoollifts in the election campaign are cut off when the parties gain power. There are no values that should be passed on to the growing genus.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1139	I would probably wish that the government we now have had been sitting for so long that they had put forward their own models, instead of just having to bring down the Workers' Party. But we're going to do that in relation to school books. It's not always that social democratic systems are something we need to go on. Then to the representative's comments on school bet. I think that if you compare the parties' bets at school, the Workers' Party is not the party that definitely comes out best, to say it like this. There are quite a number of other parties that have shown what they do at local political level. Then I can just give an example from this town, where the three parties that govern, and who also sit in government, have actually managed to get one year extra education in Oslo school compared to that of one in all other schools around the country. And strengthening teaching instead of strengthening the social-democratic system around teaching, I think is the challenge ahead. We have now managed to start with a few extra hours of teaching through the state budget, but it's still a while longer before we reach the level of the municipalities where these three parties rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1146	The representative, Skei Grande, was concerned with environmental policy and Sellafield in his speech, and the Left, both in the last election campaign and, to some extent, also tried to present itself as a party with a high environmental profile. One example of that is the exposure to the nuclear recovery facility in Sellafield, which we agree to. However, there is a great difference between life and learning in the Left. So let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's The left is power generation based on gas, especially in Norway. The left is against hydropower expansion, which is the purest form of energy we have. And the left will spend huge sums of taxpayers' money to subsidize airlocks like windmills, etc., which don't at all mongoose, and which cause great natural interference. And what is the result of the energy policy of the Left? Indeed, imports of highly polluting coal power from Denmark and other countries leading to increased emissions, or nuclear power from Sweden leading to a waste problem, cf. Sellafield. That is why I want to ask the representative Skei Grande: will the Left continue on the anti-environmental line, or will the party soon make sense and pursue a comprehensive policy that takes care of the environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1153	It is no secret that this is one of the fields where we find it most difficult to agree with the Progress Party, but I can go through the ‘airlocks’ for ‘airlocks’ to use the representative’s expression. The left is not against using gas, but we are against building old-fashioned, highly polluting gas power plants to use this form of energy. So the government has added $30 million. SEK for research into getting more modern gas power plants. So to what is characterized as ‘airlocks’, like windmills and other things. We know that these are future forms of energy – we see them around Europe – and these forms of energy are growing and developing and becoming profitable. Then for hydropower. It's a clean source, but if we use energy-saving measures in relation to the hydropower plants we have, we can get a lot more power out of those power plants, and that's what we want to give priority to. I do not think the Left should take responsibility for all the environmental policies implemented by previous governments, but now we have an Environment Minister and an oil and energy minister and a transport minister – those are those who manage environmental policy – who have a good pressure here, and I think we can reverse the trend so that we can also convince the Progress Party that this is not an 'airlock', but a future one.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1166	The President is uncertain whether ‘airlocks’ are a parliamentary expression, but it seems as if the speaker and representative understood each other well in the use of the term.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1169	It is quite incredible to hear a representative of a party who until recently called himself socially liberal, mention those parties in the Storting who have fought against the abolition of dividend taxes, as ‘misleading’. It's a term that you usually resort to when you're missing and have run out of good arguments, I think. But I think it was nice that the representative Skei Grande talked a lot about the environment, because that's what I'm going to ask her about as well. The left went high on environmental issues in the election campaign and promised more money, among other things. for public transport, as Skei Grande also mentioned in his statement. Among other things, she said: that the Government has increased the appropriations allocated to public transport. This is more in relation to the budget of the Stoltenberg government, but this government is still 115 million. kr below the amount granted for one year back. And what was the flagship of the Government, the introduction of the student discount on collective travel, also turns out to be a promise that doesn't hold true when it's being tested in reality. I would like to quote a message from NTB that came yesterday: ‘Half prizes for students on public travel in Oslo are in danger because the tramways believe they need at least $72 million for the reform. The government has only put out $10 million. We've got a job to do, but not money to do it," says Hilde Barstad. [[H]] I am aware that the representative Skei Grande is against the dividend tax. But is it the case that the priority of dividend taxes is to remove first and not the money that is needed to take up a raise for public transport is an expression of the Left's priorities of what is actually the most important, or is this a conclusion that it is the Right that has taken effect on its priorities in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1181	It is clear that we have made a commitment to public transport in this budget which is a good boost away from the environmentally hostile approach of the Stoltenberg government. As far as the student discount is concerned, the Sporvegene is involved in negotiations with the Student Association, and this may also be seen as a negotiated play between parties who are trying to reach agreement, and then we will see what the result will be when those negotiations are completed. So a little comment on SV and public transport. They connect this to the tax, which they have used many times for many different things during the debate. In this city, the three parties that are now in government have power. Here the property tax has been removed during the period, but the biggest promise of public transport was ever made at NOK 1.2 billion. What SV has acquired together with the Workers' Party – they had power in this city before – is nothing compared to it, so we can actually have two thoughts in our head at the same time, both tax and public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1191	I think there is reason to be a little cautious with expressions such as ‘absence’ being a driving force in the relationship between poverty priorities and dividend taxes. I think that's an easy way to say it. Policy is about prioritizing. And if you want to get rid of the dividend tax, you also have to give priority to something else. That is what this budget is all about. The budget includes, among other things: Priority should be given to nearly DKK 2 billion in total food and district policy measures, while eliminating the tax on dividends. These included: measures, such as the central government, with the Centre Party and the Left, were put together, which are now proposed to be removed. There are appropriations for SND, which are now being proposed in a dramatic way, and there were also a number of regional policy arrangements, which are now either being deleted or being considerably reduced. The Minister of Industry from the Right says that this is not just a budget cut; it is the beginning of a further decline. This is a change in course. Specific enterprise policy measures should be avoided; they should be reduced to the benefit of tax relief. When the Left now seems to think that the changes taking place in the budget are quite unproblematic, my question as to whether that also means that the Left is prepared to continue the reduction of industrial policy and district policy measures that we have seen in this budget and which the Minister of Industry believes is a first step towards a further change in course.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1198	It's not that you necessarily make the poor richer by making the rich poorer. That's what was my point about what I said about envy. The dramatic cut that Arnstad's representative is talking about is at 17 p.m. I will then draw attention to what business says that they want when you ask them what they need for better assumptions. Well, there's something to do with the form field, it's taxes and taxes and transportation that's at the top of all business wish lists. Of the double taxation that was there, 70 pst is actually ploughed. back to business, and it's an initial capital that we know business needs, and that we're now giving them the opportunity to get. And when you add $3 billion to the tax relief for business in the budget, it's also a relief that we think can strengthen business. Of the money that is left – because there is a little bit left if the representative Arnstad claimed that this is a bit razed with a cut of 17 pst. – it is important to focus on two things: on the regional dimension of this, removing the national schemes where the biggest cut is, and on restarting. Because with the tax arrangements we have, we're going to give the companies that are already alive the opportunity to actually grow on. And what's the challenge in terms of the money we spend on SND, etc., is to get new ones to start up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1207	When representatives from the Left discuss gas power plants and not least their energy policy, it is always worth listening to. I just want to refer to a little bit of what the representative Skei Grande said. She characterized today's gas power plant as old-fashioned and highly polluting. Then I just want to remind you that a few years ago, the Bondevik I administration went by because of a matter of permission for the construction of gas power plants. Then left the government offices too, and now they have returned. Then it is interesting to note that now a few million have been listed to change the whole view of the Left in terms of permission for the construction of gas power plants. My question to the representative of Skei Grande is: what has happened since the start of the government, as you now suddenly find out that you should not withdraw the permit that has been granted, even if it is a very old-fashioned and highly polluting gas power plant? What has happened that makes it okay now as long as you put in a pot that you can research for in the future to make the gas power plants less polluting? Doesn't the representative Skei Grande see the way you've been going in the election campaign, as a slight paradox? So one more thing. They mentioned the tax arrangements for those who have the least. Then is my question to the representative Skei Grande: What has the Left and the Government done for the country's minimum pensioners in connection with this budget? What makes those who have the least get more?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1218	The left, as I said earlier, has not been against the use of gas as an energy source, but one is against building old-fashioned and highly polluting gas power plants. We haven't changed our mind about that. But what we're seeing now is that we've got a government that's actually willing to "pushe" on the new technology in this area, and that's willing to spend $30 million. kr to develop new technologies, so that we can build gas power plants that actually meet future challenges, also internationally. On the issue of the relationship with minimum pensioners and that group, I have outlined a number of measures in my first post. Here it is primarily about lower taxes and less taxes. We have also addressed a number of other measures on the tax side, as I said in my first post.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1225	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1228	The voters wanted a political change of course and a new government. That's what they've got. The new government is well in the process of following up the Sem declaration, as a debt for the entire four-year period. The budget is good for all of us who are committed to fighting poverty, national and international, and are concerned with family policies, the environment, industrial policy and voluntary action. In the debate on the budget, the government has been criticised for both being too much – and too little – right-wing. I think maybe we believe in most areas have found a good and healthy balance. In the election campaign, Christian People's Party focused among others. on family policies and the environment. I am therefore pleased that these areas are well preserved in the budget. We think it's the family themselves who know best what kind of care they need in their situation. In order to have freedom in choice of form of care, we are investing in both cash support and kindergartens in parallel. The large increase in the number of kindergartens has been passed on. It is a continuation of the kindergarten message, as Bondevik I stated. When it comes to the environment, I am both proud and happy when Minister for the Environment, Børge Brende, receives the approval of his offensive policy from environmental organisations. The fact that the co-operation administration is an environmental administration also shows the profile of the budget. CO2-free gas power plants are an important investment in a more environmentally friendly future. The budget now has 50 million. SEK for research in gas power plants without CO2. The Labour Party proposed 20 million. kr. It's a goal that more people choose to travel collectively instead of by car. As a result, the Government is increasing its public transport investment by 65 million. kr in addition to that provided by the Stoltenberg Government. Furthermore, we follow up the Sem declaration to double the capital of the Environmental Fund, which is part of the Petroleum Fund. Overall, the environmental budget indicates that this is a government that takes environmental problems seriously. It's the best guarantee for the future. Knowledge, competence and creativity provide a good starting point for mastering the challenges that an evolving society faces. The ball is here the most important common arena. There is a need for qualitative improvement in several areas. We're strengthening the quality by increasing the number of hours in the base ball by one hour in 2. - 4th grade. The upgrading of school buildings can also be a reality through a loan framework for municipalities of 15 billion kroner. It is a pleasure that there is a great deal of political agreement about this. The land around us has reduced the fees. We can and should not be a tax policy different country. On the contrary, we have to make ourselves attractive to those who want to invest in innovation and investment. The relationship between well-being and tax/tax is also not an either- or, as someone has claimed. No, to ensure the basis of well-being, we need a strong and growthable business. A good industrial policy is also a good rural policy. Many – mainly the Labour Party and SV, but also the Centre Party in part – come with strong criticism that we are removing the dividend tax. It is strange when, in last year's agreement, these parties assume that the tax on dividends will be abolished in 2002. Here it is said: ‘The transitional dividend tax falls away from the transition to the new tax system for 2002.’» This will free up risk capital that can contribute to investment, innovation and industrial development. There is no reason to stress that more of these measures will be more meaningful for smaller enterprises than for large enterprises. Furthermore, the positive impact on rural holdings is clearly greater in relation to enterprises in more central parts of the country. An improved R & D tax relief scheme would also be particularly targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises. I would therefore like to say that the budget and the Sem Declaration facilitate both a good industrial policy and a sound rural policy in the long term. There was a request, including: by the representative of Marit Arnstad, what we think about SND in relation to the policy that one has pursued when it concerns SND and the districts, and the same thing was called for when it concerns agriculture. When it comes to agriculture, the tax method is going to be applied in addition, as we started with in the central government. When it comes to SND, we follow up on what is stated in the Sem statement that the tool should be used. The only difference is that SND Invest should be sold out. It is an ordinary investment company. In addition, the SND agent shall be used. I see that I only have half a minute left, and I want to apply it to the dividend tax. I thought it would have to be possible to have a discussion here in relation to whether this would have a function to create a owner's environment, get more people who are willing to invest in Norwegian companies. We see what's happening to Kværner right now – and more others as well. The popular argument that has led to the fact that this is giving to the richest is entirely on the side of what this case is all about. And I thought we should be able to have a discussion on that basis – I am asking for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1263	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1266	I'll take Lilletun's prayer seriously. He said there was still to be a solid district policy. And then I would ask: what is so different about the district policy that the current government is leading in relation to the central government that Lilletun put in, led, and that he defended so strongly? But I'm going to remind Lilletun of some things. I'll remind him of what happened to SND. SND's cut by 408 million. kr. The agricultural agreement is reduced by 300 million. kr, regional and local food development appropriations are reduced by 250 million. kr., the anti-fracture measures are completely removed, amounting to 62 million. kr, the funding for food-regulating research is reduced by 140 million. kr. – i.e. a total of approx. DKr 1.2 billion. This is what has happened. Was it completely wrong what the central government did a year and a half ago? And is it wrong what the Workers' Party has done? What's new about business policy now? Where's the growth going to come from? I've heard the debate before. It has been said that we are now removing the fare. But are all those who are engaged in industrial policy in airplanes all the time? It is not the fare that can save the districts when the fare has not been removed in North Norway at all. There's something that doesn't go in the hop, sir. Little thing! I hope so. I would also just like to remind you that NOK 1.2 billion is exactly what is consumed because of dividends now, which are not taxed. So here there has been a significant deterioration, and I also think that the representative Lilletun as the representative of the sitting government must take it inward. This, which I have now referred to, and which is in the position, must therefore be a solid industrial district policy! It is the fare in South Norway that will save these breeders – one would think they were flying all the time. That's where the growth is going to happen. I just want to ask Lilletun at the end: was it totally wrong what the central government did 1 1⁄2 years ago? And is it totally wrong what the Labour Party has brought into the budget in terms of industrial policy? The numbers' speech is clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1281	First, a little history reminder. When the central government went out of the offices and the Stoltenberg government joined, it was the first they did in the revised national budget to halve the appeal to SND – mid-year! I thought maybe one should be a little bit more careful in the way one describes another's policy. When it comes to SND district funds, we cut 11 pst. - So 11 pst. When it comes to the national schemes, it was pretty much a lot, but it's added another half a billion dollars. I'm going to be so open and honest that I say: we have to go into what is now here, and see if we have to re-prioritize something among the programs that are going on, and whether those that are important can go on. I'm not saying that a person now has found the right balance, but what's different from before is that now we do two things: the first thing we do is we make it profitable to invest in axles and in businesses. We don't take the money from people, they're allowed to invest it instead. The second thing we do is we take away the fare and we make a fool of it. I can take Nordtun to an IT company in Lavik, Sogn and Fjordane, which is one of those that goes very well. They say that the most important thing for them is to have the airport, and that the flight fees don't have to be so high that they can't afford to travel. They have an enormous number of travel days by plane to and from Oslo. So this was a district enterprise in Lavik, Sogn and Fjordane. When it's about agriculture, I repeat once again: there we're going to use taxpayers' money to keep what we've promised we're going to have an income development there on the line with what's in the other area. So this hangs in a bunch -- so it's a boat -- and it's not a jump -- or it's not a jump. Should one go high on the track with criticism, one should also bring with it history.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1294	After following this debate for 1 1⁄2 days, I have to say that there is at least one strength with this Bondevik government, and that is that the Central Party is no longer involved. I can say that after following this debate. Then I will ask some questions to the representative Lilletun. Several representatives, both from the Government and from the government parties, talk about helping the weak and those with lower incomes. The Stoltenberg government laid in St. pp. No 1 a proposal that disability and old-age pensioners should be exempted from the medicaments and also nursing articles on a blue prescription. Then came St. Prop. No 1 Appendix No 4, and this was removed. But what was still chosen to maintain was the increase in the excess of medical care and physical therapy, and self-interest. Why did you want to do this? Wasn't this a handshake for those who have the least? It is gratifying that the government parties will now go in for this, but do not make visible what they write in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 4, what does the Government really want in this matter? In the context of social security schemes, the parties to the government have traditionally not been willing to increase the basic amount in addition to what has been recommended by the government at all times. Isn't this also a blow to the pensioners? And then to the curtailment rules for married and cohabiting pensioners, and for pensioners who have a spouse who serves over 2G-25 pst. curtailment. The representative Lilletun was in favour of looking at this fraction in connection with the debate on the languages of the throne. Other representatives have also been positive to look at this part. When can we expect it to be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1305	I want to do the last one first. Both the Advance Party and Nesvik should be praised for keeping it warm. We probably don't agree on what's the basis for that pension, that it's not just a pension you're entitled to. We also mean there's another kind of thinking that's at the back, and that was right from the beginning, because it's both nicer and cheaper to bow two in layers than it is to build alone. But it's quite right that 1.5 pst., as we have today, does not cover it. An OECD report shows that the average should be 1.7 pst. And had the negotiations continued – we didn't come forward because of a number of other issues that were connected – this would have been one of the issues that it could quite clearly be negotiated on. But we respect that there were other posts that were also important here. That is why this was not part of the negotiations, but here we are willing to come back, as the Prime Minister said earlier today. So let's do that with the blue prescription. When the proposal came into the election campaign, I understand that both the organisations and, in part, the Progress Party were not so enthusiastic about the model itself, because it would not help the large consumers enough. That's what we agreed on. But in three weeks we were unable to create a model that attracted the large consumers, as an alternative to the model that was leading from the Stoltenberg administration. When we realized that this was important to be done, not from today or from 1 January, but from 1 October, we made sure that we can do so. We need to figure out a system that covers the major consumers, instead of a system as general as it is now. Our idea was actually to make it even better for those who need it the most, and we hope that we can be in agreement with the Progress Party on the day we have the model done. But now there's what was leading from the Stoltenberg government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1315	The representative Lilletun is clearly a little broken and has it a little hurt when he is reminded that some of what this government has prioritised is to give tax relief to the richest. The defense of this is that this is good district policy and good industrial policy. Yeah, I guess it is. I don't think so many people know so much about where this money is going. But I might have a formation. In any case, SV and Lilletun have previously agreed that good education policies are also good enterprise policies and also good district policies. I'm not going to bother the representative Lilletun with the 350 million. kr which he has cut only in the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs and in the district policy, but I will remind Lilletun of another reversal that the Christian People's Party has made since they came into government. It's about hospitalization. In fact, the hospital settlement is not about hospitals. The hospital settlement is about there being some money left in county municipalities to conduct secondary education. In my home country, Hedmark, which I can take as an example, the deficits in the hospital this year are approx. 140 million. kr. I don't know if Lilletun's doing anything to imagine how to cut in high school, which is essentially what's left of 140 million. kr, when we also know that in Hedmark there are 700 adults in line who don't have high school, who want it, and who need it, but who don't have room. My question to Lilletun when the district aid is gone, secondary schools are being laid down and dividends from the shares Lilletun will now give are to be found in the cities, is: how should high school be used as a district developer and a nutritionist around the counties when the Christian People's Party and the Government are not able to put in place a sensible hospital settlement that makes there exist high school facilities for those who need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1326	I basically take the lines, which today have been several to the Christian People's Party from SV, partly also addressed to me, in a way quite positive, they perceive that I have a social view and a social instinct. But it is wrong when the representative, Andersen, says that I have been broken in relation to the dividend tax, because this is what I have always meant. Double taxation is wrong, and it also meant the Tax Commission in 1990. We know that 70 pst. In any case, these funds go back to investment in enterprises. That might be more, but at least we know that 70 pst. Do it. When I've listened to S.B.'s speakers, they've been quite so busy that we have to get more Norwegian eight companies, like people's eight companies, and that one wants people who invest in the districts, but then we also have to let people spend these money. So at that point, I'm not broken at all. That's where I'm completely overestimated that it's necessary. But I'm willing to look for other ways to do it. I don't need people building cabins with 24 bathrooms. It is not that I want to strengthen that type – I want a Haugian capitalism – but at the same time: if we are to fine-looking the control system, I think we have problems, Karin Andersen! So I'm not broken that we're taking away the dividend tax, but on the contrary, I'm overstated that it's the right thing to do. And then we also have to have a final decision in relation to hospitals, but not necessarily by printing a carte blanche calculation, because intermediate decisions are difficult. So when it comes to what Andersen's representative summed up, the advantages that are given to business now have to be added to the fact that we're also going to maintain a system of both SND and other systems. And we're still going to be able under this government to have a really advanced school.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1335	The representative Lilletun called a range of areas on which he thought it was good politics from the new government. He includes both family and environmental policies, poverty problems and education. I thought it was striking that parliamentary leaders from the Christian People's Party did not mention alcohol policy, which was at least one of the Christian People's Party's hearts. The Centre Party has given priority to prevention in its alternative State budget. With the large and increasing repair costs of society, this must be the right priority. We know that alcohol abuse causes great expenditure on society when it involves both physical and mental illnesses. We also know that there is widespread suffering in families, and we know that violence and accidents are often a result of alcohol abuse. During the examination of the long-term programme, the Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party and the Left, expressed concern at the general developments in alcohol sales. It was emphasised that there was a clear link between lower prices and increased consumption of alcohol. And it was claimed that it would undoubtedly lead to an increase in such damage as alcohol abuse does. In the Christian People's Party, it says: ‘High taxes will help reduce consumption’. kr, shows that the Christian People's Party must have changed its view of alcohol policy. My question then is: does the representative Lilletun and the Christian People's Party no longer see any link between lower prices and increased consumption? Or is it that the Christian People's Party accepts that the context is still there, and that it can lead to increasing problems in families, to violence, exclusion, physical and mental diseases – to mention something of it as the Christian People's Party, at least previously referred to as negative consequences of alcohol abuse?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1344	The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Sollied, was quoted as emphasizing the good policy of this government. Then it's not certain that there's reason to highlight this most, but I'll still continue, saying that it's relative to a recognition of reality. There is no doubt that all research shows a link between availability, consumption and damage. But then the availability image has changed. More than half of the spirits are soon passed through channels other than the Vinmonopole. Even a fundamentalist detainee that I have to kind of recognize that reality has changed so that we have to have more tools. One of the tools must be to ensure that the wine monopoly retains the legitimacy with a price level that allows us to actually get a part of both the border trade, illegitimate trade, smuggling, and so on. I'm going to admit that it's not a conclusion that it's easy for me to stand and perform. But sometimes reality is so that an actual must have the will to change political positions and attitudes. I could well name some people to whom I could recommend the method. But I'm not going to do that right now. I want to say that it is necessary for the Government to refer to the 100 million. to voluntary organisations, which are presumed to be more than the VAT compensation, and that preventive work must become a future bet area. We're doing a lot on the treatment page this time, but we have to do even more when it comes to prevention. For the Christian People's Party, for this representative and for this government, it is important to have an offensive policy in this area, a policy that not only takes on new recognition but also takes offensive action to reduce the damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1353	The representative Jon Lilletun is concerned about the world's poorest. It was also the Prime Minister in his speech today, highlighting the fact that the Bondevik II government has raised the allocation of aid. But we only hear about percentages of GNI, and my specific question is, how many more dollars is the world's poorest with the budget of the Bondevik II government compared to the budget of the Stoltenberg government? Christian People's Party representatives in municipalities and counties are very excited at the moment. It has also been reflected in my own state, and it is admitted that both cut off municipal food funds and cut off in 17 pst. by SND is what creates frustration and anxiety. It is also a strong wish that the Labour Party should arrive at a budgetary settlement, because the Stoltenberg budget was so much better. It's not without reason that the Christian People's Party's political trust party reacts, because we get examples in the newspapers almost every day of how difficult it becomes for some companies. It's not that it's just start-up that's the problem, but it's the renewal and development of already existing companies. A company that stands out in the Tronder-Avisa is Steinkjer Mechanical. It was established in 1995 and now has 18 men. The Executive Director, Kjesbu, says that ‘the company must constantly renew and look for new roads and products’. The company has received good help from SND in that process. On questions about what would have happened if you had not received that help, he says that the company would “of course have sour and gone”. But the development of the enterprise means a lot, not least to the enterprise, but also to the region. So Trine Skei Grande says that the SND funds are now to be used for the start-up of new businesses, and not for the further development of already existing ones. Then my question becomes Lilletun: Is it so that the Christian People's Party believes that a company that "surges and goes" is what we are going to bet on? Does he think it's where they can collect tax dividends that replace the assistance that a former person has received through the SND?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1364	I could imagine doing a trade with their Labour Party speakers here in the hall today when it owes the dividend tax. If they're willing to go into a factual discussion in accordance with the positions they had since 1990 and beyond, when it's due to the reason that we're going in to remove double taxation, that it's actually at the best of business and discuss whether it works or not, instead of talking a little rhetorical about the richest and this tax, I'm going to do a lot of serious work when it comes to SND. I think SND is a good institution in a lot of areas. The Sem statement says how it will work in the future. The cooperation management is required to provide funds in relation to what is said in the Sem statement. That's not all that has been equally necessary, and then we've done something about SND Invest. I agree with Mr Gaundal that it is not enough for a company to ‘surge and go’. It is therefore important to maintain programmes for empowerment and technological innovation. So we still have to go in to take care of that. When it comes to district protests, from different parties, I have just packed letters – after these six and a half years as a nutritionist – when I have now changed offices. I've seen a little bit through them. I haven't thrown them yet, so the representative Gaundal would like to see the letters found after previous rounds of cuts, both in SND and in other areas. The letters state that they felt that the government that put in place was bad compared to the other parties that were in opposition, so it's kind of not a new experience that there are protests. But what we can agree on is that when the letters come, we're going to analyze them, and some times they're actually so serious that we're going to take care of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1375	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1378	After hearing Prime Minister Bondevik's contributions to the presentation of the Government's Declaration of Accession, it was surprising at that time that the Prime Minister did not find room to mention the country's more than one million pensioners with a single sentence. Older pensioners, disability pensioners, medical rehabilitation, transitional benefits, survivors' pensions, etc. represents a very large area, both economically and socially, and should therefore be given a much greater importance than appears to be the case. That this large group of people again seems to be the big loser in the budget, does not at all marvel at the signing, for this only joins in the array of unwillingness to address the problems that elderly and sick people in this country are struggling with. I would therefore just like to mention some of the areas in which the majority has not been willing to intervene, and which it seems as if the Progress Party – in part, at least – is alone in wanting to do something. The majority of the population has for a number of years provided for under-regulation of the basic amount of social security, so that the income of pensioners has not evolved in line with that of employees. There is reason to recall that since the death penalty was introduced in 1967, there has been a pre-requisite that the employees who retire after full retirement in social security should have 2/3 of their earnings available as a pensioner. This is not yet the case today, for the current percentage shows that current pensions do not exceed 50 – 51 pst. of employee income. There is therefore reason to ask whether the majority in this room has deliberately failed the pensioners in this area to save money. The Progress Party will therefore already announce that, in the context of next year's social security settlement, we will make proposals to change the social security policy so that the development of the basic amount is at least in line with the wage and price developments in society. In this budgetary procedure, the Progress Party has paid particular attention to correcting what would at least be described as a theft against married and cohabiting pensioners and pensioners married to working spouses with income above 2 G. Why should it be in such a way that the choice of form of life could result in the shortening of a legally earned pension? In the view of the Progress Party, it is totally unacceptable that there are political assessments of the economic needs of couples in relation to singleness, which are to be taken into account in the calculation of pension benefits. I don't think anyone in this room would be willing to cut off their salary on the basis that they're married or cohabiting with a person who has an income greater than 2 G. Many would say that this is not a relevant comparison, and it may be at the forefront. But I just want to remind you that pensions are a legitimately earned right as a result of the payments made by the individual over a year. I will challenge the majority in this Chamber to now make sure to end this injustice once and for all, and with this I will challenge the Government to support the Progress Party's struggle to remove this shortening of pensions based on life-style. In this way, the Bondevik government can also correct some of its sophisticated policy regarding Norwegian pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1400	In this debate, many have been concerned with ensuring people economic and social protection, or in other words: combating poverty in Norway. That's good, because big commitment will give results. I belong to those who, perhaps not very surprising, have faith in the politicians' ability to do something about people's problems. All the promises of the election campaign and all the speeches in this debate will eventually lead to the adoption of concrete proposals. This will help to combat poverty in Norway. For the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that the fight for economic and social justice, i.e. the fight against poverty, must be fought in a number of different arenas. Working for everyone is the most important thing in this way. It is a constant feature of those who have financial problems today, that they lack work, either because they do not get work for various reasons, even if they want it, or because sickness or injury, in whole or in part, hinders participation in the labour market. An inclusive working life is the most important thing we can do when we want to fight poverty. This is why efforts are being made to tackle measures for the disabled, to invest in the labour market and to reduce sick leave and exclusion from the labour market, examples of very important measures to combat poverty are being taken. The Workers' Party is committed to a social development marked by the public need to ensure access to basic welfare goods for the population. We are committed to a strong public health system, where everyone can afford to receive the necessary treatment. We see that we have gone too far in relation to the excesses in health care. That's why we want to build up the excesses in the health care system. We are engaged in good kindergarten services for everyone. That is why we are betting on more and cheaper kindergartens. We're busy with a good school that's free for everyone. That's why we're betting on free primary camp school and free secondary school textbooks, in this round. We're engaged in a social housing policy that can secure every place to live, some place they can call home. That is why we are betting on the House Bank. All of this is about building a society that does not create ever-new poor people — ever-new people in economic or social need. The alternative to this policy is to focus on increased targeting of actions, tailoring, extended needs testing, measures for those who really need it – for those who deserve it. Free high school textbooks – for everyone – will cost 600 million. kr. A grant scheme for the few, for the poor, will be much cheaper. But the social cost over time will be much larger than the millions that in the short term make up the difference between these two schemes. The alternative to a policy for the broad welfare systems is a policy for increasing differences. We all see that, at a certain level, needs testing will be necessary, with targeted schemes. But the limit of targeting, tailoring, doesn't go to school books for the nation's 16-year-olds. The draft budget of the Stoltenberg government has been criticised for the absence of measures to combat poverty. However, it is important for the Labour Party to stress that poverty reduction is not just about appropriations in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health budget. Our draft budget contained a number of efforts in relation to a policy of increased social and economic security. These proposals can be found in a number of budget areas: labour market measures, lower taxes for those who earn little, the House Bank, the municipal economy, 1 billion extra for kindergartens, free camp schools and, as I said, free textbooks in secondary school — to mention something. In total, there was an investment of nearly SEK 2.7 billion in the budget proposals of the Stoltenberg government, the money that would contribute to increasing social and economic security, to combat poverty. Through the new economic estimate of the Bondevik government, we can also spend more money. We use them to reinforce measures to combat poverty instead of giving tax relief to those who have the most of them. My main point is to stress that the fight against poverty is about much more than the indicative social aid rates. This does not mean that the indicative social aid rates are unimportant, but that the focus cannot only be on these rates. We in the Labour Party will also make proposals during 2002 to increase the indicative rates of social assistance. In particular, we are concerned with the child supplements. However, we should be careful to establish social aid rates that make it unprofitable for people to work. But the main point is, as I said, to avoid people becoming poor and helping those who have come up with economic difficulties, so that they can again stand on their own economic and social bases. The Labour Party is going to use a lot of force in the time to come to work on the renewal of our social policy. All questions should be raised and discussed. Examples include: How should we avoid the need for many social security and minimum pensioners to visit the social services in order to make the ends meet? How are we going to avoid people becoming caste balls between public agencies and public offices? How are we to prevent increased exclusion from the labour market? How are social-security workers and job-seekers more likely to benefit from this? There are a number of such questions that we are now addressing. The Labour Party has always been a party whose identity has been a policy of economic and social protection. As a party, we have had the aim of eliminating poverty in Norway. We're going to re-establish our credibility in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1440	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1444	The representative Hanssen has been given the task of giving the Workers' Party credibility to the fact that they are occupied by the poor in society. This is clearly needed following the lack of results of the Stoltenberg government in this area. Or, as former State Council Hanssen himself says in the Evening Post on October 31st this year: 'We got rid of figures and statistics when we were working on poverty problems.' I fully agree with that. While the party in position spent time on research and investigation in relation to poverty, it used the situation of the poor to justify historical tax increases. The Labour Party has been more concerned with Difference Norway than with poverty. Thus, it was more important to introduce the dividend tax than to take a cap on the poor. It was more important to defend tax increases that there are still some who fall outside today’s welfare system than really to do something about the everyday problems of these people. The new government has shown an ability to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. One has finally taken a roof to do something concrete about the situation for those who really need it. The daily newspaper has probably never been as close to the truth as it was when, on November 7, it wrote: ‘The working party comes naggingly after the Bondevik II government’ in terms of poverty problems. It was only after the Cooperation Government put the fight against poverty on the agenda, and after it turned out that there was a little more room in the budget than the Stoltenberg had set up, that the Workers' Party found room for its own poverty package. The Labour Party has not prioritised this in its programme or in its own budget. It was only after the Workers' Party government went off and the State Council Hanssen became a big representative, that the Workers' Party put down a sample just to match the Cooperative Government. It's great that the Workers' Party gets on the track, but doesn't this representative Hanssen give a flat taste in his mouth?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1455	What will be important to me in this matter is to emphasise that the fight against poverty must be conducted on a broad basis. It's about making sure to keep people working. It's about qualifying people for a working life. It is not least about contributing to those who have come up with economic hardships, in relation to helping them out of a situation where there is a need for social assistance, and it is about qualifying them so that they can once again have the opportunity to work. It's about having broad welfare arrangements so one avoids people getting into economic problems. It is about a set of policies that, in total, create a Norwegian welfare society. In the budget proposal of the Stoltenberg government, it was a pillar for the entire Norwegian welfare community. In addition, approx. Extra NOK 2.7 billion to raise that area of society – an extra SEK 2.7 billion. It is an appropriation that the former Minister of Agriculture does not have any difficulty in persevering. But when the new government came into the offices, one more time one went through the entire financial base and found out that one had about. NOK 2 billion more to spend – of course we also have to show a distribution of. It is then that neither the Right Party nor the Christian People's Party escapes the fact that instead of building on our commitment to poverty, we completely turn around and say that now our concern is greatest for the wealthiest in society. Bent Höie can ask these questions in as subtle a way as he likes, but he never manages to turn away from that choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1462	It was with pleasure that I listened to the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who announced that the Workers' Party will now conduct a turnaround in its health and social policy – especially social policy. That is a good witness, and the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, must be aware that there are parties in this Chamber who are able to make a majority around a change in the policy we are discussing here. It was also gratifying to note that the Workers' Party will now also change its ownership policy in order to reduce its market share. There is also a majority in the European Parliament today, so I look forward to proposals in this area. In this election campaign, and especially after the election campaign, all parties have raced in the fight for the poor. It's amazing how many people have been busy with the poor in the last few months. But the poor we've always had with us. Why haven't we done anything before? In particular, it has focused on children and youth, single mothers and children as poor. It is very good that all parties are now interested in this, but it must be more than verbal pre-postage. It has to be reality, it has to be money. The largest group of poor people in our country are the minimum pensioners, in a number of 100,000 people. There's the largest grouping, and I'm glad that the government parties and the Workers' Party, who found money in the bedside at the very end, also spend more money on the poor. But I have a question for the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen: will the Workers' Party now also turn to the political field of regulating the basic amount, so that the pensioners, the disadvantaged and all those who live by the public interest, who are regulated in relation to the basic amount, get a wage trend similar to those who work? Will the Workers' Party also turn this field around?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1471	I welcome the invitation to cooperate with the representative Alvheim on important questions with open arms. I experience the representative Alvheim as a man with a big social heart. But what will be important is that we have to be able to finance the actions we are going to cooperate on, with proper money. My impression is that it is very often easy for the representative Alvheim to participate in the most incredible proposals. It doesn't matter what it costs, because he has more than enough of it in terms of just increasing on, among other things. in the case of withdrawals from the oil fund. This cannot be the basis for cooperation. But a proper, proper cooperation based on proper, real money, we're going to be happy to be involved. So to the last thing Alvheim mentions, the development in relation to the basic amount, the social security and the minimum pensioners. I think we have to admit that we have a problem in Norway associated with many of them such as the United Kingdom. are disabled at an early age and part of the minimum pensioners, especially those living in cities, who do not live in apartments where they can receive housing, belong to those who in Norwegian society are most struggling to get the economy around. It is not the people who stand on the barricades, but it is where it can really be talking about poverty problems. And we have to go into that. It is not a worthwhile system that social security recipients and minimum pensioners have to be in the social office every month to get enough to meet the ends. I'm not going to sketch here and now exactly how we're going to deal with it, but it's important that we recognise the challenges that lie in it, and I accept the invitation to cooperate on solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1478	Sometimes it can be instructive to look at other people's budgets, not just at the ones we represent in the social committee. When I looked at the environmental budget that we are going to deal with in Stortinget, I saw that it was about. DKK 2.5 billion. And that could be a lot of money. But then you start to reflect on the size of the numbers, and then you see that $2.5 billion is about nothing more than what you've had of growth in costs of one year in the specialist health care and hospitals. And if you look at the entire transport budget, the net sum is approx. DKK 17 billion. This is, despite the fact that expensive roads are being built in this country, and despite the fact that you have to cover expenditure on public transport etc., about half of what we are now using only for the specialist health services in this country. We have had a cost explosion in specialist health services, which means that while we used approx. 18 billion kroner, we are now approaching 35 billion dollars. The problem I want to travel to Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is that when we look at that cost development, we see at the same time differences in offers in different parts of the country that are extremely large. And it's especially related to the establishment of private specialists. Comparing North Norway with the Eastern region, there is much evidence that individual municipalities in North Norway may have a tenth of the frequency of consultations with specialists in the Central Eastern region. Numbers as far back as 1988 show that in Hanssen's own home state, the Nord-Trøndelag, the differences were approx. 18 times as large as in the case of withdrawals of social security funds for private-sector specialists in the central eastern region as in the North-Trondelag. For some amazing reason, and in parallel with the cost developments we are talking about here, one cannot focus on the phenomenon, namely the over-establishment of specialists in the central eastern region and the lack of offers in many other places in the country. Will Hanssen and the Workers' Party be involved in a stronger focus on this and a boost to balance the differences, and that you ask the Government to come back with an overview in this area, so you can do something to balance these differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1485	I'm going to admit that the learning curve has been pretty steep lately, and going into the details in the way that the representative Ballo here is able to do, that I'm not capable of. There is a certain way from udder inflammation to the medical specialist situation in Norwegian hospitals. But the problem that the representative of Ballo is addressing, we also feel in the Workers' Party that it is very important to work with. After all, I have a past as a county politician in the Nord-Trøndelag, and I am well aware of problems over the lack of a reasonable geographical distribution of medical specialists in Norway. The Labour Party has therefore also made very concrete proposals since 1997 to deal with the issue raised by Ballo, and we would like to see further cooperation on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-28.ana.ud2521e1492	The cord shift is therefore over. We've come to the time of the day when it tends to be a break, so the president suggests that we interrupt the negotiations now and gather again at noon. 18 for the evening meeting. - It's passed.
