ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e46	This is actually just an explanation of vote. The central part and SV will follow their positions from the previous Storting round and will thus be in a position to match the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e51	The President thanked for the information, and it was also reproduced in the vote. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 444]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e67	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 444]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e81	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Twist Party 5 minutes and one of the independent representatives 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e92	The size handle today the change in the saltwater fishing law § 5, on special quota arrangements. It should be noted that this amendment of the law does not in itself imply the setting up of special quota arrangements for vessels below 28 metres, but that separate specifications must be drawn up on the basis of proposals which have been out of the ordinary hearing. Furthermore, there is reason to stress that it is the individual vessel owner who decides for himself whether to benefit from the different quota arrangements. The specific quota schemes aim to adapt the capture capacity to the resource base. The majority in the Committee agree that coastal fishing is highly differentiated and that it must therefore facilitate a number of quota arrangements and that a system of a type of unit quota is one of the possible ones. In this context, it may be appropriate to recall that the Storting itself has asked for such a case in connection with the management of changes in the saltwater fishing law, the unit quota system, in May 1999. There it says: ‘The size asks the Government whether the unit allowance scheme can be applied to vessels below 28 m. The size suggests that the Government will return with this assessment in the budget for 2000, so that it can be implemented as from 1 January 2000.’» The size was allocated in the context of the 2000 budget proposal, which made it possible for the unit quota scheme to be no longer suitable for vessels less than 28 metres in line with the pattern of the trawl and ring-fleet fleet. The Economic and Social Committee has also found reason to stress that the fishing resources belong to the Norwegian people jointly. Therefore, there are no individuals or companies that can be granted eternal exclusive rights free of charge to suspend and reduce these resources, while others are excluded from fishing. Let it be quite clear that we want a varied coastal fleet structure, and that it should facilitate the execution of the best aspects of today's structure. This applies both to a good geographical spread of the boats and to different groups of vessels of different sizes. Provision must be made for schemes which ensure the long-term and cost-effective exploitation of all fish resources and which help to increase the value creation and profitability of the industry. Furthermore, it is important that fishing is conducted in an environmentally and energy-efficient manner. Increasingly, there will be a requirement for optimal use of the whole raw material. Our task is to create flexible schemes that can lead to profitable and secure all-year jobs, which in turn lead to people wanting to live and work on the coast. That's actually the main point. In such a perspective, the majority believe that a local coastal fishing fleet and a differentiated structure are very important elements. The majority emphasises the need to facilitate a good geographical distribution of ownership and quota rights, so that the systems with which we end help strengthen the sustainable fishing environment along the whole coast. To take care of the best aspects of today's structure, we need to focus on the different schemes that can be used to achieve this. There may be quota, quota, quota, quota and buffer allowances, or there may be some kind of unit allowance. The majority see no need to set a lower limit when it comes to boat length in order to be able to participate in the special quota arrangements, as each municipality and region naturally has different groups of vessels that are still involved in the creation of a health centre. Then it's natural that they can work together before the same arrangements. In coastal fisheries, as in other areas of scope, cooperation will become more and more important. How can you get the most out of your own set of allowances by cooperating wisely with other equivalent parties? Both locally and regionally, it must be possible for different actors to cooperate in such a way that both fishing patterns and methods produce a result that takes care of the whole raw material in the best possible way and that fishing is carried out in an energy-efficient way. As mentioned earlier, this will be a concern that will become more and more central, and there is much to be achieved for those who take this inward. I find reason to say that the unit quota system is not the same as the transferable allowances, and that developments at different prices on ships with and without quota probably have a more complex history than the introduction of the unit allowances scheme. The distribution of the value associated with the different boats that work together will, after all, be up to the fishermen who participate in this cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e133	Today's legislation has as its starting point the allocation of quotas based on the vessels to be engaged in fishing. The exemption from this rule is the concessional jet and ring-fleet fleet and 28 metres more than as conventional vessel with access-limited enclosures. This is allowed in Section 5a of the Saltwater Fishing Act. For this group of boats the quotas can be distributed differently between the boats by allocating more quota units than there are boats. This scheme has helped to reduce the number of boats involved in fishing, while the remaining boats have greater quotas, more efficient operation and more profitability. At least that's what we wanted to introduce device quotas. But in the proposition submitted by the Government, the unit allowance scheme has not been evaluated, and there is no evidence of the results of the unit allowance scheme being as we wished. Another goal of introducing unit allowances has been to reduce fleet overcapacity. When boats are taken out of the fishing, it will reduce their capacity, but if two old boats are replaced by a new one that is much more efficient, has much more capacity, and which requires a return on a large investment, it is far from certain that the pressure to get the largest possible quota is less than before. The change in the law that a multiple today seems to be voting for does not mean that unitary allowances are introduced, but that the government is allowed to introduce this by regulation. From the Christian People's Party's side, we have earlier pointed out that unit quotas should be evaluated for vessels between 21 and 28 metres. The proposal the Government sent out on the listener had such a lower limit, but the proposal for a legal text that the Government has submitted to the Storting does not have such a minimum limit. We find that strange, and we find it unfortunate. There is a big difference between opening unit quotas for boats down to 21 meters, as the bill sent out on a ring called for, and opening up unit quotas without regard to the size of the ship. Given that what seems to be agreed is to allow the Government to introduce unit allowances, the proposal may seem harmless. It is up to the Government to set limits later. For the Christian People's Party, there is not enough guarantee that important care will be put on. From the Christian People's Party's point of view, we have placed great emphasis on the fact that three of the states have gone against the introduction of unit quotas, and that two states are asking for the system of unit quotas we have today to be evaluated. We also stress that the coastal fishing team is moving towards unit quotas. In addition, we have noticed that there is a great deal in the fisherman team's mind about the proposed hearing proposal and that there is a lot of evidence to suggest that there will be a debate at the fisherman team's national meeting on the status of the fisherman team with regard to unitary quotas. From the Christian People's Party's side, we see that unit quotas can help to reduce fleet overcapacity, and that the vessels that remain can get greater catch rights. But we fear that unit quotas can quickly trigger the construction of new boats close to the limits of the vessel group. We're afraid of an increase in the capitalization of the industry. We're afraid of a development where increasing capital return requirements can lead to an increase in pressure for larger quotas. With increased demands for return on capital and more efficient boats with more capacity, there is little help in whether fewer boats are involved in the fishing. In this context, we have also noted that the Coastal Fisheries Team has stated that ‘the introduction of unit allowances will have the same effect as the introduction of a system of negotiable allowances’ and that ‘with such a system, it will facilitate structuralisation through increased capitalisation rather than capacity adjustment’. The Christian People's Party does not want to introduce translatable quotas – we also have programmable ones – and it is not exactly what the proposal is about, but the consequences can be. So from the Christian People's Party's point of view, we want to clarify what are the most likely consequences of introducing unit quotas for boats less than 28 meters. Therefore, we would like to evaluate the current system of unit allowances for the concessional jet and ring-fleet fleet and for boats over 28 metres as fishing with conventional access-limited vessels. Such an evaluation will provide a better basis for assessing whether unit allowances are an appropriate tool for smaller boats as well. From the Christian People's Party's side, we will also stress that the coastal fleet today has a strong local anchoring. Restructuring the coastal fleet where some vessels are taken out and catch rights collected on fewer vessels may lead to the disappearance of vessels that have been an important part of the basis of a fishing reception. The boats that acquire the fishing rights may be in other locations. This can be a loss of some of the foundations for work on land. We don't have reason to say that this will happen, but if we're going to open up unit quotas for smaller vessels, we need to know that that's not what will be the consequence. I can join very much of what the case-speaker Rita Tveiten said in his post, which had a different conclusion. It tells us that there is not only black and white in this case. But it's an industry with a lot of powers, a lot of shelters that have been given to the ministry. And it has nothing to do with the current Minister of Fisheries to make us skeptical that so much is transferred home to a department. This means that a not all the time can see all the consequences of any regulations and warrants that will be used. All in all, the Christian People's Party will go against this change and ask that you instead get an evaluation of the scheme you've had now, before you come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e163	The President will only ask the representative Lilletun whether he intends to take up the proposal announced in the vote or whether he will leave it to the chairperson of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e166	It seems to the representative Lilletun to do, and thank you for the reminder!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e171	The representative Lilletun has thus taken up the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e174	Norwegian fishing industry is organised as a very well-regulated industry. It is directed and regulated almost down to the smallest detail. That is why we can also find in today's setting the concept of a paragraph boat. Whether the current resource situation is a symbol of the governance and regulation with which this industry is equipped, the governance may hardly appear as a pattern of succession for any other industry. Because the industry saw until the degrees were passed, it is a paradox that the fishing of wild fish over several years has been so extensive and the fleeting capacity so large that we have to recognise today that several stocks are out of safe limits. Herring and North Sea mackerel are examples of fish species that have been subjected to unweed harvesting. In the case of the Norwegian-Arctic cod stock, we get signals from the research team that the stock is down to a level very similar to the cod crisis we had here in the country about ten years ago. One day like this, there must be questions in Stortinget about how we have managed the resource situation in our domestic fishing waters. In the Right's view, we have received a number of evidence that better and more prudent taxation of resources would have created more profitability in the industry today, while at the same time the populations would have been in a much more robust state. All in all, we should also say today that, over the years, researchers have been more right in their estimates than fishermen's associations and politicians who have bent away from them. Today, we are comforted by the fact that other countries do not appear to be better resource managers than us. This underlines the need for further international cooperation in stock research and quota policy in today's debate. The current issue of the introduction of the single quota system also for the coastal fleet is, in the opinion of the Right, an important part of this debate. We have made sure to equip ourselves with a highly volume-oriented fisheries policy in Norway, which mainly lacks market links and legislation to ensure that the links between fishing and processing are not the best. We're getting very close to the value creation from the industry today that the foundation was supposed to provide. In such a situation, of course, the pressure and attention are largely directed towards the fishing stage, a fishing link that appears to be oversized and that is sometimes struggling with lack of profitability. There is therefore a need for new solutions and a different fisheries policy in Norway. Just for the sake of having emphasised it in the debate: the right is also against freely transferable allowances. Of course, from the Right we are pleased that the majority today agree to amendments to the Saltwater Fishing Act Section 5(a), and that the scheme also applies to vessels below 28 metres, because it is most necessary to implement measures that can help reduce the volume at the fishing stage. The great overcapacity we have at the fishing stage is perhaps the greatest threat to our fishing resources. The pressure is enormous, both economic and political. The unit quota system should and must contribute to a reduction in fishing capacity. At the same time, it provides for increased profitability in the fishing industry. At least I am not of those who fear lack of fishing capacity on the day the catchable species are rebuilt. That's why it's a strange and incomprehensible attitude that the minority, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, represent when they go against today's reform. The argument that this affects small ships and ship groups in the outermost regions cannot and cannot, at least, be used as an argument in this debate, which is just as much about the resource situation and overcapacity. The geographical areas to which these batches refer have already been severely affected for entirely other reasons which could have been tempting to challenge those batches, some time and occasion unfortunately not allowed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e187	The Progress Party is part of the majority, consisting of all but the Christian People’s Party and the Centre Party, which believes that mechanisms should be provided for ensuring the sustainable and cost-effective exploitation of all fishing resources available to Norwegian fishermen in order to increase the value creation and profitability of the industry. The unit quota scheme aims at contributing to the adaptation of the fishing fleet to the resource base, thereby providing a better operational basis for each vessel. What is proposed in the proposal to amend the provision on special quota schemes will increase flexibility and thus increase the possibility of better profitability. As the Storting treated the scheme with unit allowances for approx. two years ago, we went in to extend the arrangement to include ships as low as 15 meters. If something had really been meant with capacity adjustments to reduce overcapacity in the fishing industry, one would have followed the proposals of the Progress Party on this. For the coastal fishing fleet, this would have been an important contribution. It is positive that there are many operators of varying sizes in the Norwegian fishing industry, not least it is positive that many can become owners or joint owners of fishing vessels. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the possibility of new generations becoming owners of vessels. In the coastal fishing fleet, the establishment threshold is low. Recruitment opportunities are therefore good and self-ownership is widespread. However, the coastal fleet is characterised by overcapacity, low profitability and lack of access to capital. In order to strengthen coastal fishing as an autonomous way of life and as a combined industry, unit quotas should also be introduced for all regulated coastal fisheries. The Progress Party believes that the introduction of unit quotas for large parts of the coastal fleet will reduce overcapacity and improve profitability. Another thing is that with unit allowances, the individual vessel owner can assess for himself whether it is profitable to invest in a unit quota or join with another quota owner in order to operate more rationally together. For us, it is also important that it is not a directorate or department that decides on the investment and replacement of ships. In addition, in the event of an extension of the scheme, there is scope for simplification and less regulation. A reduction in the management, bureaucracy and management of fisheries may be facilitated. In conclusion, an extension of the unit quota system will focus on profitability and freedom of choice. Today's setting is a step in the right direction, even though it is far to optimal solutions, as we see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e204	The centre party was in the majority who asked for a unit quota scheme for boats below 28 meters to be investigated. By doing so, we have not provided prior support for the introduction of such a system, and the investigation submitted has not convinced us. It is a pity that the investigation does not specify in detail how a single quota system will be designed and the impact it will have on regional and fisheries policy. I find it regrettable that the majority will give authority to introduce a system that is so controversial, so little is known to the Storting, and which in addition deviates a lot from what the public hearing was about. I think we get too many important things from this government with a thin base of expertise. I just want to remind you that the Minister for Fisheries has previously invited decisions on auctions on breeding concessions, with a similar spinle investigation and information to the Stortinget. That case was rejected. The Minister of Industry's proposal for a semi-state investment fund before Christmas was not very concrete and had to be sent back for investigation. The proposal that we have now received on the remuneration of new breeding concessions leaves most of it to imagination and rumors about what the Council of State might think about the number of millions to be collected by the state. I don't like invitations to such wide-open mandates. The bodies that have been invited to comment on this matter have expressed themselves on a basis that is not really the same as what we are dealing with today. The hearing note was about boats between 21 and 28 metres, while the Stortinget was asked to decide on the introduction of the unit quota scheme for the whole coastal fleet. Several of the hearing opinions would look different if they had been about the authority that has now been placed on our table. Nevertheless, several of the hearing bodies were negative about introducing the regime for vessels between 21 and 28 metres, not least the hearing bodies which take care of the interests of the smallest fleet, and the county municipalities of North Norway. Several respondents believe that an extension of the unit allowances scheme should be scrapped until the established schemes have been evaluated. The centre party shares such a vision. It is a dramatic step to introduce unit quotas across the entire coastal fleet without one having at least attempted in advance to identify the unfortunate consequences of the scheme already in place for vessels over 28 metres. Increased ownership concentration and increased fishing capacity were not the objective when the case was dealt with in the Stortinget. If that has been the case, the Storting must know about it now. That is why we have proposed that an evaluation should be carried out before the extension of the scheme. I think it would be strange if there is such a hurry to introduce unit quotas for the coastal fleet that you don't take the time to look so carefully at the experience. Are you afraid that the counter-conceptions against the scheme will increase? Or is it so important to target such a transferable allowances scheme to become EU-like in that area too? The scepticism expressed acts, inter alia: that the aggregation of allowances may lead to the disappearance of fishing rights from certain areas. Especially in relation to Finnmark, this may be a problem. If the scheme results in extensive new construction of costly boats just below the different maximum limits, many small fish receipts could gradually lose the fixed suppliers. Many smaller fishing resorts that depend on the local coastal fleet will experience difficulties in employment and settlement. With the four indicated groups of lengths below 28 meters we can after a while get four boat types just below the length limits. New builders will be expensive to realise, and the requirement for high turnover and thus increased quotas will be strong. Such fleets will have to face even greater problems in future failure of raw material availability. The same will apply to those receptions and communities adapted to such a unilateral fleet structure. Measures are needed for a real reduction of fishing capacity also in the coastal fishing fleet. Similarly, fleet modernisation is needed. The centre party will work towards a certain strengthening of the coastal fleet through a change in the quota allocation at the expense of the sea fishing fleet. This could reduce the need for degradation. The best way to strengthen coastal fishing fleets is to manage stocks in order to increase quotas over time. In particular, with a view to reducing the catch of small fish, priority is given to coastal fishing. The centre party will reinforce the system of capping grants above the State budget. I believe that this scheme can be combined with a structural fund financed by a turnover tax. This fund may purchase catch quotas which are not to be resold. At the same time, let me underline the need for renewal in the light of a work environment and safety considerations that are important to ensure the recruitment of the fishing profession. But also in view of letting young people into the fishing industry, on board their own boats, it is important that the renewal of modern and efficient boats does not take place too quickly, so that the boats they are going to take over become too expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e230	There is reason to highlight the cross-political consensus we initially have with regard to the objective of Norwegian fisheries policy. The consensus includes, inter alia: the contribution of the fishing industry to the maintenance and strengthening of coastal settlements means that we must have a sustainable management of fishing resources by reaping a surplus in the sea and that the coastal fleet must be a carrier in the fishing industry both for the purpose of coastal settlement and to ensure sound resource management. As a background, SV is sceptical about introducing a unit quota scheme for the coastal fleet at this stage. We will focus on opinions from, among others. the three Nordic counties, the Lofot Council and the Norwegian Coastal Fisheries Team, all of which oppose such a change. There is a justified fear of negative consequences in the form of lost fishing rights in many regions, not least in North Norway. The impact of unit quotas on regional policy does not appear to be well enough highlighted in the submitted legislative changes. Therefore, SV supports the proposal to postpone the introduction of legal barriers that could allow the introduction of unit quotas in the coastal fleet to the existing unit quota scheme for the sea fishing fleet to be evaluated. A more detailed assessment of the regional policy and environmental policy implications of a single coastal fleet quota system should also be carried out. What you see today in the situation in the sea is very dramatic. Therefore, it must be all the more important not to implement measures that may exacerbate it. Based on information received from the Swedish Nature Conservation Association in Finnmark, the situation of the cod in the Barents Sea is now very serious. The spawning stock is low and is estimated to be around 285000 tonnes. It's about half of what should be least to be within safe biological frameworks. The very last research piece in Lofoten shows that 80 pst. the broodstock consists of cod spawning for the first time. The total cod population of three years and over is estimated to be 1.3 million. tonnes, which are far below the average for the years after 1950. Today there is almost no older cod in the sea than six years. The one who was older than that, is largely confiscated. The annual strength of cod from 1995 to 2000 is also very worrying. So for the first time in history, we don't have a single strong yearclass of cod left in the Barents Sea. We have recorded that the Prime Minister was not long ago in Finnmark, where there was an uprising, not least related to the management of fisheries resources. The Prime Minister has also been to Tromsø. When discussing this matter of unit quotas today, I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries whether it would be appropriate to look at a renegotiation in the case of cod fishing in the Barents Sea, so that the quotas do not exceed 263 000 tonnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e248	The fishing industry has been, is and will be a bearer of our welfare society. The industry plays a major role in the value creation and development of the country in general and in the districts in particular. The left will highlight that a strong and locally owned fishing fleet is the best guarantee for living coastal environments and an important prerequisite for maintaining the main pattern of coastal settlement. The distribution between coastal and seagoing vessels must contribute both to maintaining settlement and facilitating economic rational operation and ecologically sound coastal resource management. In order to achieve this, it is important to renew the fishing fleet and to recruit for the fishing industry. We go into a time of lack of working hands, and in such a situation, these are major challenges. Initially, I would also like to make it clear that the Left strongly opposes a tangle of historical and debased principles in the Norwegian fishing industry, including the regionalisation of resources, including fishing quotas. Fishing resources are limited. The fishing capacity is too large in all parts of the fleet. This means that one does not have a fully-fledged operation that allows one to be able to renew the fleet and offer attractive jobs. For this reason, the Left is occupied by and is part of the majority who believe that there is a need to provide legal support, so that structural arrangements can be established also in the coastal fishing fleet which allows fishing quotas with fewer vessels or with fewer vessels than those involved in the fisheries in question today. It is therefore important to provide for the possibility of further evaluation of different capacity reduction measures also in the coastal fishing fleet. With today's majority comment and proposals, it is open to it. But this does not mean that, as we know it from the sea fishing fleet, the unit quota system should be applied automatically. It may be applicable, for example: for the group 21 to 28 metres, but in any case, this shall be addressed to consultation and careful treatment, where the industry is consulted before any action is taken. The Government of Norway's Fiskarlag agrees with the majority. The recently set-aside Resource Distribution Committee also agrees to facilitate the introduction of quota schemes that have a structural impact on coastal fleets. It is proposed that coastal fleets be grouped and appropriate structural measures adapted to boat sizes and operating patterns assessed. The pattern of coastal fleet operations is complex and complex, with different operational combinations. Several fisheries are not regulated either, the quotas are not guaranteed at vessel level, but maximum quotas are. Therefore, I strongly disagree with the need for and do not understand the intention of the minority proposal for an evaluation of the current unit allowance scheme before opening up a permit to introduce special quota schemes for vessels below 28 metres. From the left's point of view, new deferrals and evaluations seem to be wrong. Measures that increase profitability and lead to cost-effective exploitation of fish resources are urgently needed. There is also an urgent need to adapt vessels in order to make optimum use of the entire raw material. I am thinking here of the great potential that lies in the exploitation of the by-product. Finally, I would like to clarify that the fishing industry is complex, pervasive and often difficult to get into. I agree with Johannes Nakken, who is the head of the Resource Distribution Committee and former Secretary of State, that it is important to see the whole of their position. All member groups have been represented in the Fisheries Fund Resource Distribution Committee. This means that representatives of the fishing industry in Norway are united behind the adjustment. I think that should be an important signal to the minority in this case. The left is pleased with the solid majority in the case. It serves the industry the best overall in the short term, but especially in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e269	First of all, I would like to say that it is positive that the majority of the Committee has joined the Government's proposal to amend Section 5a of the Saltwater Fishing Act on special quota arrangements. Specific quota schemes are an instrument to contribute to adapting the fishing fleet’s fishing capacity to the available quota base. I would like to stress that quota schemes, which are designed on the basis of Section 5a, are voluntary. It will be up to the individual boat owner if he wants to enter into such arrangements. Special quota schemes allow fishermen to promote a better balance between the resource base and the fishing capacity themselves. It is necessary to strike a proper balance between the resource and the effort put into fishing. This is necessary in order for each fishing vessel, large and small, to have an operational basis to ensure profitability. Without profitable holdings it is impossible to create safe jobs on the coast. Special quota arrangements must be seen in the context of the other regulatory system, so that they do not impede the structural policies desirable in relation to the coastal fleet in a broad sense. It is also an objective for allowances schemes under Section 5a to create a robust regulatory framework – in order to meet both good and bad times, and to facilitate the development of the different ship groups. I would also like to point out that special quota schemes are in addition to other capacity reduction measures in relation to different groups, for example. Condensation grants. Within the proposed wording of Section 5a, it will be possible to establish special quota arrangements, such as unit allowances, quota exchanges, allowances, etc. However, the Government does not propose with this a concrete design of special quota schemes. The concrete proposals will be promoted as regulatory proposals by the Ministry later and will be subject to regular consultation at that time. It is only when a concrete regulatory proposal can be considered that there is a basis for assessing the potential capacity and profitability impact and the potential regional policy impact. Against this background, it makes little sense to carry out an evaluation of the unit quota schemes for the sea-fleet before starting work on other quota models adapted to the coastal fleet below 28 metres. However, when considering models for allowances schemes based on Section 5a for vessels below 28 metres, these must be adapted to the different assumptions existing within each group. Care must be taken to ensure that different groups of vessels have different advantages in relation to operations in different geographical areas and following different types of fishing. Different assumptions as to weather conditions, perception of fish, etc. must also be taken into account. Consequently, quota arrangements for vessels below 28 metres may not be a blue copy of the unit quota arrangements put in place for the sea fishing fleet. The arrangements must be designed to take care of the best aspects of the structure of the day, including the geographical and sizeal distribution of the coastal fleet. It is also important that the quota arrangements are designed in such a way as to enable each boat owner to finance the necessary renewal of the vessel and to allow it to operate for the maximum duration of the year. It is a fundamental condition that the fishing authorities have at all times control over the quantity at which each vessel has access to fishing of different species of fish. Although special quota arrangements are in place for vessels less than 28 metres, it will not be up to individual owners to agree freely between them, quota arrangements require a regulation regulating the scheme in question. It will therefore continue to be the authorities which allocate the quotas to be actually fished. This current amendment of the law does not change this fact. Finally, I would like to comment on the question that had raised about the situation in the cod population. It's true that from a number of teams there's a statement that there's cause for concern. The International Council for the Exploration of the Sea through its Advisory Committee has planned to assess this stock. This will happen during May, and we expect a concrete assessment to be available during June. It would be impossible at this stage to conclude by what might be a reasonable and responsible action after having obtained the conclusions that marine scientists can present.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e288	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e291	The Minister for Fisheries says that there is little point in evaluating a scheme for such different groups of vessels. It may seem logical in itself, even if it is part of the same thing that will be achieved – one will achieve a structural change that will give less fishing capacity, fewer boats, which is more adapted to the resource base. That's equal to that. So what makes the minority make that proposal is that a lot of hearing aids, including, you know, a lot of hearing aids. also those who are engaged in the fishing industry themselves, think it would be good to evaluate. I wonder why it is that the Council of State believes that it can say that it has no sense to evaluate, when those who run the industry themselves say it can have good meaning. The councils are quite obviously out talking to the fishermen – even I try to be something out there – and a lot of people in those environments think it would be good to go for an evaluation. So I don't fully understand why a is so bastant compared to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e296	Of course, there is a need to assess the experience of the unit quota schemes in the marine fleet at some point. However, among the conclusions which can undoubtedly be drawn in advance, very little of the experience of these groups is particularly transferable to the coastal fishing fleet. The ocean fishing fleet, in the groups they exist, are very homogeneous boats. Merging these together has been a fairly simple process compared to what is to be expected with regard to the complexity of the coastal fishing fleet, which has so many more and so far different boats. I would like to stress that it has a not insignificant urgency to get started and set up these types of arrangements. It is not satisfactory in the short or long term that large parts of the coastal fishing fleet must spend large portions of the season at berth because the quota is not based on annual operations. I perceive that a large proportion – the majority – of fishermen want to have access to tools to provide a higher operational base for each vessel in a legal and tidy manner, and that is what we want to facilitate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e301	I said a little about what I reacted to in the production given in the message, among other things. the fact that the Minister for Fisheries did not want to say anything about the experience. We have only received a small letter on the development of the number of boats in the case of the sea fishing fleet. The second is that he won't tell us what this coastal fleet scheme is going to look like. And now when it's said that this is so urgent, I'm going to think that the scheme is over, just as I think the Council of State has decided on how the fees for new concessions in the aquaculture industry should be, but he doesn't want the Storting to know. I believe we should have heard about the result of the unit quota system in the sea fishing fleet, as he promised Stortinget; he thought there would be fewer boats. I would like to hear if it is now the case that in one of the ship groups in the sea fishing fleet there have been several boats, and if that is the case as the Coastal Fishery Team writes: ‘In contravention of the Ministry’s stated objective of the scheme, we believe it can be demonstrated that in the period we have had unit quotas there has been a real increase in capacity in the sea fishing fleet and an overinvestment that has led to increased resource pressure.’ I believe we should have heard if there has been a concentration of owners due to the new arrangement, if the delivery pattern of the boats has changed, if the situation of the crew on the boats has changed by several days on board the boat, because the boat has to fish more, if there have been changes in where the real drivers of the boats live in the country, and if there has been more breach of the universal service obligation than we had before. I think the Stortinget has a right to get answers to such questions, when, after all, we have had this marine fleet scheme for some time. It is no longer urgent to have this coastal fleet scheme put in place, when, after all, the unrest – at least in North Norway – is so great.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e315	I can assure you that there are no solutions on how this should be. I have personally spent my entire working life in the fishing industry, and I am going to spend the rest there as well. And I have to say that I don't know how to make this work in a way that is good, that is constructive, that is fair, that ensures resource management, and that ensures a reasonable geographical distribution – just because there are so different boats and so different considerations to be taken care of. The representative then points out to Lund that there are very many changes in the fishing industry, that the situation of the crew is changing, that universality is not being fulfilled, and a number of other things. But I think it would be completely impossible to carry out an analysis where any change in the fishing industry is to be attributed to the introduction of a unit quota system. The unit quota system has largely resulted in fewer vessels and higher profitability in parts of the sea fishing fleet. This has been positive for those who have got it. Therefore, coastal fishing fleets also want to have access to such instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e322	There's an expression that says where there's no more to pick up, even the emperor will have lost his right. I will therefore return to the question I had before. I will not claim to be an expert in this area, but I perceive that if the cod in the Barents Sea were to be lost as a resource, it is very bad. And based on the information that, among other things, The nature conservation association here comes up with the situation as it is at the moment, it may seem that we are facing a very dramatic situation. In terms of the figures I have received, it is also referred to research reports that already exist, among others. from the fish of the loot. When the Minister for Fisheries replies that during May there will be an assessment of the stock according to the recommendations of the marine scientists and that he will wait until then, does that mean that the Minister for Fisheries is so far questioning that the stock is at risk and that it is a dramatic situation, or does the Minister for Fisheries recognise that situation and will be able to advance the need for measures in the form of renegotiation when so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e329	As I said, I am fully aware of the concern many have about the situation of cod stocks in the Barents Sea. I am asking about the information, but I am not rejecting the fact that this can lead to correctness. But I think it would be totally irresponsible to deviate from the system that we have, that any research report, any advice from researchers, should be dealt with by the Advisory Committee of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea. This is a body designated and paid by the countries to perform precisely this function. What comes out of this assessment is not known, but it is only when this assessment is available that we have a solid and sufficiently professional basis to assess whether there is a basis for action. What I can assure you is that when such information is available, it must be acted upon in a responsible manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e334	The cord shift has thus been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 446]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e344	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1-3.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e372	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e383	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Central Party and the Socialist Left also want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e396	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e533	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e542	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e548	During the debate, Mr Lilletun put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to carry out a thorough evaluation of the current system of unit allowances. Impacts on the agreed fisheries policy and settlement targets must be presented to the Storting before the possible extension of the unit quota system to boats below 28 metres.’» This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e584	The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e595	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e608	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-lower-2.ana.ud2280e617	There is no record.
