ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24-lower.ana.ud1334e34	Document No 8:55 and Innst. O. No 66 concerns a bill by the depositors Torbjørn Andersen, Lodve Solholm and Ulf Erik Knudsen to abolish the property tax law for the municipalities. Property tax is a purely municipal tax. It is the municipal politicians who decide for themselves whether to print property taxes or not in each municipality and at what level it should be. It is also up to the local government to determine the objects on which to print property taxes. I would say this is part of the vitalization of local politics and the visibility of political differences in the parties. Property taxes have been an important source of income used by some municipalities. It would be totally unreasonable and an over-management by the Stortinget if the majority were to go in to deprive municipal politicians of this possibility of income, especially because the proposers do not at the same time propose measures to compensate for the loss of the tax. It is also the case, as the proposers write, that if one is to exempt the municipalities from the possibility of levying property taxes on, for example: power plants, this will primarily affect small, poor municipalities in the districts. To believe that this can be compensated by providing financial compensation through changes in the income system or by adjusting the rates of the natural resource tax is customs; it is only to take from other municipalities. It is hardly popular and will again affect other municipalities that do not have such a good economy either. Fortunately, the entire committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, is in favour of rejecting the proposal. Even the Right, which is not eager to collect taxes, is in favour of rejecting this proposal in the light of the fact that local politicians will have to decide for themselves. Here they shall not be overruled by the Storting, as the Progress Party will.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24-lower.ana.ud1334e47	The property tax is no longer justified as a payment for municipal services relating to real estate, with own charges levied for municipal expenditure on roads, water, sewerage, renovation and fencing. Thus, property tax is a purely fiscal tax, and it has a peculiar effect that it happens by chance because of random tax suspensions. Nor does the property tax take into account the tax capacity of taxpayers, and thus has an unsocial profile. The property tax is levied, inter alia, on: dwellings, known to be dwellings built with money already taxed on income tax. As if that were not enough, VAT and, where appropriate, other excise duties are paid on the materials used when building this dwelling. In addition, if you have lived a long life, saved and taken care of your properties and maintained them well, yes, you will receive property taxes on the same properties. And finally, as if that weren't enough, you get another tax: the property tax. The property tax is the basis for removing it. We therefore propose that it be phased out. In addition, the scope of property taxes has been extended in recent years by the fact that more and more areas have been considered urbanly developed. There are, therefore, a number of urban areas in property tax contexts; otherwise, urbanism may be difficult to see. It is a cross-thinking that, when property taxes are legally anchored in the concept of urban areas, Oslo does not levy property taxes, while a number of small municipalities have introduced property taxes despite the fact that, in the general sense, they are not urbanised at all. I would also like to stress that the specificities of property taxes on power plants cannot in any way justify maintaining the scope of property taxes as at present. The loss of property taxes on power plants could be compensated, either through the framework transfer system, the natural resource tax or otherwise. I will take our proposal into account in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24-lower.ana.ud1334e60	Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24-lower.ana.ud1334e63	In politics, there are many things that are related. In this context, I must say that the proposers and representatives here must have a poor memory. Just before Christmas, Odelstinget treated property tax on power plants. This led to fairly large redistributions in Kommune-Norway, and some municipalities have come out very unfavourable compared to the result of the conversion that was made. For approx. two months ago, the representative, Siv Jensen, from the Progress Party, stood on this pulpit and complained about the reduction in tax revenue in the Municipality of Kvinesdal after the conversion that had been made. Nineteen million. NOK was the reduction in a municipality of 5000 inhabitants. If the proposal were to be adopted today, the Municipality of Kvinesdal would have to cut 25 million. kr in its budget, approx. 20 pst. of the total operating budget. It would, if one were to transfer it to the state, correspond to approx. 50 billion kroner. Then the representatives in this room might ask themselves how cutting 50 billion kroner on the state budget would be compared to doing political work in Norway. This is the reality out in the municipalities. Sirdal municipality, with a population of 1,700 inhabitants, had to cut 36 million. kr. This could become the reality of many different municipalities in the country. But it is also true that there are cities that would have been hit hard here in relation to the cuts in property taxes. We know, at least I know who comes from South Africa, that Kristiansand Municipality is struggling very much with the local economy. It is related to the income system of municipalities, and it is related to low tax revenues. Last year, the municipality of Kristiansand went 35 million. NOK in deficit. I don't know how much a cut in the property tax in Kristiansand would be, but there would be tens of millions of dollars. The question for the proposers must be: what do they say to the municipalities that would have been so dramatically cut off from maintaining their welfare standards? As I see it, this proposal may not have been considered before it was submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24-lower.ana.ud1334e74	I don't know the maths that have been done here, but they're definitely not correct. Looking at the last part of the comments from the Progress Party in the setting, it says that this should be compensated either by increased framework transfers, natural resource taxes or otherwise. The results will not be as the representative describes it, they are not correct. Then the representative showed that there is a bad municipal economy in many municipalities, and that the municipalities are going with a huge deficit and are unable to do what they are going to do. I think the jam is right. There are so many municipalities in this country that don't run in a sensible way, they spend money in areas where they shouldn't spend money. They say that they have every opportunity to streamline and put off competition, where there are billions to save for municipalities on a national basis. This will not be done because the Municipal Council is to govern each municipality. This does not mean that we are getting funds for this. In most counties and municipalities where the Progress Party is represented, budget proposals are presented where property taxes are removed over a certain period of time. There you get money and go with profits by streamlining. There is a rate of spending money on the areas where the municipality is going to spend money, and not on everything else. So there's opportunities to do this if you want and ability to do it. So I want to distance myself from what was said here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24-lower.ana.ud1334e85	I think that the representative is quite free when he first says that he does not know the calculations, and then says that they are not correct. That's what he himself should consider. What is the reality is that there is still an improvement in the efficiency of the municipality of Norway. Norway’s toughest professions are in Kommune-Norway, which is also shown in sick leave. It's not like the municipalities are floating out of money, and I'm very happy that I'm experiencing the reality that's actually out in the municipalities. They give high priority to providing the best possible welfare services to their citizens, and it is not that they are involved in improving efficiency and reorganization – it is constantly out in the municipalities. I want to encourage the previous speakers to take a look at the local economy, maybe travel around some municipalities and see what it really is, because what he said here reminds me of a fairy tale about Municipality-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24-lower.ana.ud1334e94	Kenneth Svendsen has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24-lower.ana.ud1334e97	I want to draw the attention of the representative to the fact that I have been in the local government in Fauske for almost 16 years. I am still sitting there and have a good knowledge of local economy. The Fauske municipality reported a deficit – I mention it as an example that I know this – at approx. Ten million. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. It has shares in the Salt Force Connection that represent a value of approx. 300 million. kr. By selling these and putting the money you received for the power company, in the bank, you would get a dividend of 25-30 million. kr per. For example, in the United Kingdom, the number of people living in the United Kingdom increased by about one year, i.e. about one year. Twenty million. kr more in increased resources that can be used for welfare in the municipality. So the money is there if someone wants to use them, not like the Fauske municipality does, they're wondering in shares either.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24-lower.ana.ud1334e102	The President had hoped that we could come to a conclusion in the debate, but it doesn't look like that. If this is to become a testimony to the state of the respective municipalities, the President will assume that one can find a more convenient time – but Grethe G. Fossum has the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24-lower.ana.ud1334e105	The municipalities need money, they need money for many things other than what the Progress Party wants them to do, and I am very pleased that there are so few municipalities in this country that are governed by the Progress Party. For what will a progressive party municipality look like? Well, it'll be chemically purified for culture that the public pays. But there will be quite a lot of commercial cultural services in those municipalities where they are competitive. You might want private trash disposal where it pays off for the municipality, and where it pays off to have competition. But what about those areas where it doesn't pay to have competition, how will they do? You want a school system where the primary schools are laid down, because there are not enough parents with ‘baggage’ to choose that particular school. And what's that going to look like with the kindergartens? I am very pleased that the Progress Party does not control so many municipalities in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24-lower.ana.ud1334e111	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next page]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24-lower.ana.ud1334e119	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24-lower.ana.ud1334e125	During the debate Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposals:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24-lower.ana.ud1334e164	There is no record.
