ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e36	The called alternate of the Buskerud County, Hallgrim Berg, has taken the seat. The representative Per Sandberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e44	On behalf of Per Roar Bredvold and myself, I would like to propose an instruction for the maintenance of buildings owned by the State and to separate the management role and user role of all government properties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e49	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e70	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Sylvia Brustad Ellen Horn Trond Giske The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We are ready for the first main question, which will be asked by Anita Apelthun Seele.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e89	I have a question for Minister of State Sylvia Brustad. The councils have warned that she sees the need for a review of the UDI, and I agree with that. The situation is unsustainable, and there are individuals who know the consequences of a system that doesn't work. The review shall be carried out in accordance with Official Journal No. Norwegian. 51 of 1 March 2001 in the first row look at resource use, economic practices and administration. And as I understand it, the review will take place from 1 June to 1 August. So it's essentially two summer months for this important work. Delays have already been reported, which is a shame, because the problems are acute. What is the background for the delay? So the council said in its response to the interpellation that Valgerd Reply City Haugland took up, about UDI: ‘I am prepared to use the means necessary to find solutions in terms of both the length of the procedure and in some context of poor service and poor availability.’ Does the Council of State believe that the review she has announced is sufficient and comprehensive enough to solve the problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e103	I'm very busy doing something about the UDI proceedings, which is too many cases too long. That is why I have also taken the initiative, as the representative points out, a review of the UDI, not only to be absolutely sure that the financial management functions as it should, but also to see whether the UDI should be organised differently, and whether the process is done as it should in terms of efficiency. I have previously informed the municipal committee that I intend that it must be concluded on late summer/early in the autumn. Now there are many who have reported their interest in carrying out this review. We are now doing a selection of who will get that assignment, and we are of course determined that it should be started as quickly as possible. But we have rules to deal with the fact that this is going to be published in a real way – we have – and that people are going to have time to report. We're in the middle of that process. That doesn't mean we don't do anything in the meantime. Firstly, on behalf of the Government, I have already proposed some measures to bring down the procedure. We're trying to activate them as soon as possible. We're also looking at whether there are other things that can be done while we're waiting for this review, for example. to see if it is more possible to distinguish so-called curative issues from the more complex issues. I'm set to turn all the stones that can be turned around, so we'll be able to clarify matters faster than is the case today. But it is also true that we have had a stronger influx of asylum seekers in recent years. It also makes it more important to do for UDI.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e110	Of course, the rules we have must be followed. The Christian People's Party agrees. It was a pleasure that the Council of State now said that she would look at whether the processing period was too long. On Sunday I was contacted by a young man who had found his heart slit in Morocco. They had married, and now she might have to wait a year to get to Norway. It's kind of untimely. I had to agree with the young man. I understand that it takes time to examine UDI's secret cook. But it must be possible to deal more quickly with a child who has a mother here, or whether a wife – or a man for the sake of the cause – is going into Norway. Can the Council of States confirm that one will take immediate action before the summer, so that simple decisions can be quickly and effectively stamped and not concealed between difficult asylum cases? Will this happen so quickly that we can say before summer? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e119	First of all, I distance myself from saying, "to review the secret map of the UDI." Of course, everything should be done in public here, and here it is a matter of talking that I also believe that the UDI is interested in us doing our best to bring down the processing time. I don't think they think it's comfortable to get between 2,500 and 3,000 telephones daily with reminders of matters and questions about where things stand. That's what I think illustrates the vicious circle we're inside, and we have a common responsibility to do something about it. The government has already addressed a number of measures for, inter alia: raising a number of tasks from the UDI, one of which also concerns the representative in relation to family reunification. We have proposed that a number of tasks should be uplifted from the UDI, for example. to the police, to the foreign stations. We are prepared to implement what we can implement within the regulatory framework we have, as quickly as possible. So it's that some of the changes we're proposing require regulatory and regulatory changes. Of course I have to deal with that. But I can promise and guarantee that the department is working on a bomb to get things started as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e126	There will be follow-up questions – Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e129	The problem with UDI is that there have been continuous reviews and reports in recent years. In fact, in January last year, State Consultant submitted a review just to reduce the processing time, with 10 recommendations. Last night, the Council of State sent an answer to my questions in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 17 for 2000–2001 that only five of them had been completed up to today, and that the five others were under work. This means that it is a continuous evaluation and restructuring process. My question is: When can the Council of State promise that we will see an UDI that can function after the procedural deadlines and the times that the Storting has repeatedly decided, and that the people who often seek residence in this country can get some human treatment and not sit in the dark? In addition, I have questions to the Council of State on how to have a priority that makes the issues now one year old lie at the bottom of the pile in relation to new issues. That is the priority situation today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e136	I am not satisfied with the state of the matter in relation to the proceedings in the UDI. I've also given that expression a number of times. I have also grasped it through the fact that I have already proposed a number of concrete measures to bring down the procedure period. I have said that we are going to have the review that we are about to launch, with a short deadline, just to try to get ahead of what we all agree that we need to do something about. I have also said – and I stand by it – that I am willing to turn all the stones to do something more that makes the situation that is now getting better than it is. We have said that the UDI should give priority to asylum matters first. Then we have had an increased influx of asylum seekers to Norway in recent years. This means that it takes a lot of time to process those applications. As a result, many other cases have had an excessive waiting time in many cases. We have to do something about that. I'm prepared to do what's at all in my power to do something about it. I can't promise a date for it here today, but what I can promise is that we spend a lot of time doing something about this. And I hope to be able to show results in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e144	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e147	The Council of State now said twice that there has been a stronger influx of asylum seekers in recent years. I want to ask the Council of State: does she think it's random? The truth is, the government and the majority of the population have never really wanted to take responsibility for the blue-eyed and naive immigration and refugee policies that you stand for. Newspaper reports now confirm that there are an increasing number of asylum seekers who have Norway as their final goal, because this is a clever attitude. The Norwegian Foreign Law and legislation are far more liberal than the Refugee Convention requires to keep the Convention. Doesn't the government realize that this is just going to continue, as long as you don't want to give the necessary funds to a large enough device? The only solution must be to pursue a much more stringent policy, more in line with the refugee and immigration policy of the Refugee Convention, in order to reduce influxes to Norway. Is it possible for the Government to consider such measures, on which former Labour Party governments were involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e154	The Progress Party and the Workers' Party are fundamental differences also within this field. The Labour Party believes that it is right for one of the richest countries in the world to accept people from other countries, people who live in need, who are persecuted and who are being tortured and the like. They must be allowed to come and be with us if they need protection, or if there are other strong human interests. I believe that is a matter of course for one of the richest countries in the world, which Norway is actually. That the Progress Party believes otherwise is not surprising – nor is it new. I do not agree that we have a blue-eyed and naive attitude. But it's actually that out in the world around us there are many people who have it considerably worse than us, and who need protection. What the government has also done is that in relation to the minority who come here for another purpose for the eye, for example. criminals, now pursuing a much more stringent policy. We say that people who have been reported, targeted or convicted should be dealt with promptly, and they should leave the country as quickly as possible, when that is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e161	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e164	Governments have notified a review of the UDI. She now says that she has rules to stick to for whoever is going to get this assignment. I understand that this time EEA legislation prevents the Council of States from putting this review into practice as soon as she has thought, and I am asking for confirmation of it. Then I'll put the search light on the cover "most possible." It's good that Sylvia Brustad now has a strong commitment to improvement. It has to notify the committee of changes when it comes to emoluments for job opportunities already in ours. But what does the outline mean for those who are currently waiting in a queue and who in many cases have a curative case, for example. asylum seekers who have been granted asylum but are waiting for family reunification, and those who are waiting for family reunification, for example. as a result of marriage?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e171	To the first question, about the review of the UDI and who will eventually get that assignment, it is right for the representative to point out that we have an EEA legislation to deal with. That means it's taken some time. We've had to take some time to get it published, and for people to have time to report. This is now at the nearest point above, and in a short time, we're going to pick out the ones that are going to get the assignment. – That’s the explanation that it has taken some time. But precisely because I have the same impatience as I feel that the opposition in Stortinget also has something to do with the proceedings in UDI, I have been very concerned that those who receive the assignment do not get a long time on themselves, but short. That is why I have signalled, as I have previously informed the Committee, that this review should be completed on late summer/early autumn – preferably 1 August. With regard to the specific issues and improvements, it will vary a little, but I hope, for example. that family reunification issues – without saying so in general, because there are so many variations – we need to be able to get ahead in a few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e180	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e183	Getting the UDI is not just about getting matters settled quickly, it is also about UDI making the right decisions, and the decisions being made are in line with the signals the Council of State says are current policies. And it's about women who are persecuted because of their sex, and are at risk of abuse and perhaps killing. If they're sent out of the country, it doesn't seem like UDI's policy is in line with what the Council of State says. I have a verdict here that was passed in Borgarting Lawyers' Court on 12 March 2001, where the state is judged not to have taken this into account. Would it not then – when there is so much uncertainty not only about how the UDI operates in a procedural manner but about how they actually make their decisions – be right to suspend the expulsion of women until a review, which the Council of State also says she wants, of the provisions of this is about? Because it's actually about life or death for part of these women.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e188	I cannot comment on the individual issue, but I have no reason to believe that UDI does not comply with the applicable legislation and legislation that the Stortinget has laid down, and also with the guidelines that were given by the Bondevik government. But I'm also very concerned about making sure that in every context we are absolutely sure that the gender perspective is very much involved, especially in relation to women. That is the background to my announcement that I want a review of regulations and laws, including: by the Foreign Affairs Act, in particular with a view to gender perspective. Otherwise, I think that when UDI has now taken over the hearings from the police, it will also make these matters a little easier, because women are now more likely to be met by women in an interrogation situation. That was not the situation in the police, because there are more men. I believe that the improvement in that we have now established the Foreign Office, where people are given the opportunity to meet in person in asylum matters, is also an improvement in relation to these kinds of matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e195	Last follow-up questions – Valgerd Reply City Haugland.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e198	I'm pleased with the commitment the Council of State shows in this area. I could probably think of a little more lean than the Council of State wants to put into practice, and I want to challenge her on a problem issue. I still get letters from people who are looking for the spouse to come to the country, one is married to a foreigner, etc. – Government councils know the issue. They still say that they get answers from the UDI that the political signals are that such issues should be deprioritised. And then I'm going to challenge the Council of State: have they now been given a new signal that these should not actually be deprioritized, but that some things should be able to go first in line? What kind of signal, if any, has been given, as the UDI gives such answers to those who turn to the UDI?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e206	The main signal given is that asylum matters should be given priority. One consequence of this is that the type of cases referred to by the representative here – family reunification cases, etc. Unfortunately, it takes too much time. I'm not satisfied with that, and that's the background for me proposing some changes to get ahead of it. But I think we also have to assume that we have to look at the total resources we have made available, for example. to UDI, is consistent with the problems they actually have, while we have to see if the way it's organized, the way the issues are separated, is right, and I'm not sure if we've found the final answer. That's why I'm just as impatient in this area that I feel, among other things. The representative of Svarstad Haugland is, and I promise that we will work on this as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e211	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e214	My question goes to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Yesterday's newspapers read that the Government of Great Britain's report on the division of tasks between the state, the region and the municipality suggests that the county council should be given a number of new tasks after the county council's backbone, the hospitals, is to be taken over by the state. So once again, the Workers' Party is going to try to revitalize the County by giving it greater legitimacy and prestige to people. Refreshing the county municipality has been tried several times before, without success at all. The party of progress has twice proposed that the county should be closed. Is it so to understand that the Workers' Party is adding up to the very opposite, namely to strengthen the county council's position in relation to today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e223	What the National Assembly of the Workers Party has adopted, and thus what the Government obviously believes, is that there is still a need for a regionally elected level. With regard to the other things that have been mentioned in the evening post, to which the representative Torbjørn Andersen now refers, I have nothing to say about it today. I will present the task breakdown message in two days. Then I will present what is the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e230	After all, the government reformers should have had a stronger lead to wanting to simplify and renew Norway, as the government once proclaimed, and for which it had great ambitions in its accession. Gradually, in my view, there has been a lot less reforming in some areas – perhaps the Trondelags, and the Agders, merge. But it does not represent a major state reform to go from 19 to 17 states, as the Council of State may suggest. It was also the case that the Council of State would go from five to seven regions in this area. How does the Workers' Party think it is possible to further the County by strengthening it with more environmental tasks and more responsibility for culture and agriculture, when even something as important as our hospitals was not enough to legitimize and strengthen the county council's position outside of people's homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e237	I have no further answer in addition to what I have now said, because the government has not actually submitted the matter yet. The representative Torbjørn Andersen must almost lubricate himself with patience until we present the message on Friday, and then one can take the debate from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e244	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e247	I'm going to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research a question. As an extension of the debate on the full-day school, I want to expand this perspective somewhat and refer to what the Workers' Party said in the Budget-Inst. S. No 12 for 2000-2001: ‘The government’s initiative to change the working time agreement for teachers is part of a process to achieve the objective of a school of equivalence, safety and quality.’ I assume that the Workers' Party believes this should apply to the entire training course. Youth has been lagging behind in relation to school reform, and it is still a long way to go before the intention in L97 can be reached. Both the design of the premises and the lack of resources make it difficult for students to provide the individual training they need. This often leads to dissatisfaction, anxiety and poor concentration. However, some municipalities have come quite far, as Haå municipality on Jären. Class boundaries have been removed, teacher teams have been established – at the same time, students have their own primary teacher. The students feel that training is relevant and have a significant impact on their own learning situation. I myself have been there and seen this. Students have their own office space, while there is a common area for social community. What will the Council of State do to stimulate other municipalities and schools to apply the experimental paragraph of the Training Act to improve the learning environment for students?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e263	It is quite right that the representative Tingelstad points out that there are very many exciting and good attempts around the Norwegian school. We actually get more trial applications than it really is based on, in the sense that part of what we're applying for, actually not even is trial, but things that can be done under the applicable law. We have set up a new learning centre, which is a pool of the Department of Education and Research, and which is supposed to be aimed at stimulating trials, pooling experience and making known the good trials carried out. The main problem in Norwegian school is not that there is too little experimentation, the main problem is that the good attempts made become too poorly known, and that a teacher too little of each other’s attempts. In addition, the Government of the 2001 budget has added 100 million. on the school package to which the previous government took the initiative. This means that we get more money for equipment at school, more money for different measures and different trials, as well as that there will be opportunities for example. to bet more on data, which is very important to get into school. So all in all, it's well suited for experimentation. We also work continuously with the teachers to get the working time agreements we have with them, more flexible, so that they also help each school and each class to use the learning skills in a more dynamic and flexible way, and so that they are not a hindrance to the trials.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e274	I thank you for your answer. I want to emphasize that in addition to the 100 million. kr as the government proposed, we added 25 million. This is because we thought it was so important. And that was after the budget agreement, something that the central parties initiated. There is a problem in addition to what has been mentioned and there are the authorisation mechanisms and procedures for these trials. We fully agree that it is important to use the action space that already exists today – and there is a lot that is neglected. But when it takes as long as we've been given examples, it's bad for teachers and schools who're interested. In Oppland Arbeiderblad yesterday, the school manager in the municipality says, ‘We don’t have time to wait for the treatment in the KUF.’ The same inertia was presented to us in Haå municipality. There was an experiment with evaluation without grades in childhood that took a very long time. Will the Council of State take initiatives to advance work so that concrete pilot projects or other development measures can take place, in general, in favour of school development?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e285	Of course, in the ministry, we have to do everything we can to get these applications processed as quickly as possible. We also keep looking at our own routines in relation to that. But one reason why this takes some time is that the attempts sometimes require the agreement of the teacher organisations, because it goes beyond the agreements that apply to their working time and working conditions. Then there are some procedures that unfortunately are a little bit time-consuming. That is why we have taken the initiative to make agreements with the teachers that open up certain types of trials, without needing the extensive procedure to get them approved. I hope that it will make it possible for more people to receive a faster response to their test application, because it is clear that it may be a bit debilitating if it takes too long to get that type of approval. I fully share the view that this must go quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e295	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e298	My question goes to the Council of State Giske, and it's about the whole day school. Last week, the Council of State spoke clearly for the sake of trials in full-time school, but the more he participated in debates, the more unclear it became if that was what he really meant. Last week was well the expression that it was unclearly said also it is unclear thought. This is why the issue of whether the Council of State has thought more over the past week. What is his attitude toward all-day school for the very smallest children?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e305	It is possible that vaguely thought is unclear, but it may also be that vaguely perceived is the same thing. So I'm going to try to clarify what's going on, and what's meant. I also think the debate last Thursday came out a little crooked, as the news in the morning brought the news that this was the introduction of a compulsory full-day school. It's not. On the other hand, we have managed to agree with the teachers on greater flexibility in the agreements, so that schools are given greater freedom to organise themselves in a new and better way. What trials are conducted, and how each school will organise them, are up to the individual school. We are not going to sit in Oslo and decide how to organise the school day and the school leisure system at Koppang or in Bergen or in the interior of Oslo, because there are completely different needs that exist in the different places. Our aim is to facilitate the kind of flexibility and freedom that enable each school and each municipality to meet the needs of the local community as best as possible. We know that today, more than half of the first-graders have a school holiday plan. ==References== 50 pst. of all first classes, school leisure arrangements have more than 15 hours per year. week. It means that already today there are a lot of children in school leisure programs most of the day. Then it must be our task to make that day as good as possible, make the quality of learning and the quality of leisure time and play as good as possible, make the day as little tiring as possible for the children, so that children and parents have the afternoons and evenings together and the families of young children are helped out of time. That's our goal, and that's also the purpose of the different trials.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e312	I guess the council wasn't very ready. In fact, he was clearer in the Dagsrevy last week. There he was talking about melting up school leave and school, and he was talking about the problem of going to school for one period and one period in school leave. He obviously spoke for the benefit of all-day school for the smallest children. I think that's pretty clean. But if for the past week he's become weaker at that point, it's in and of itself good. Can I understand it so that the Council of State will guarantee that you don't want to set up a school day so that parents feel pressured to let children go to full-time school, that you don't get a system that makes parents feel that the children are missing out on education that other children get?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e317	I can guarantee that what's going on at school, what's going on at primary school, is free of charge, and it's going to be for everyone. The school leisure arrangements shall be voluntary for those who so wish. Of course, those who do not want it should be able to avoid participating in such a school leisure scheme. But it's not like these attempts are introducing a full-day offer for the children. It already has a lot of kids. The question is just how to organize it. We're not going to sit here and tell them. Each municipality must have the freedom to decide for itself and to find out what is good for its parents. Last week I was in a Right-steered municipality, in Drøbak. There was a system where you had a period of school, you had some school leave, and then you had a period of school again. 94 out of 95 parents were satisfied with that arrangement, and it shows that it is possible to do things locally, even if the Right is central to it. Now we've taken a big boost for those who are at home with the children. Now is the time to make a big deal for those who need a care package for their children all day.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e324	There will be follow-up questions – Arne Lyngstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e327	The point of the full-day school raises several important questions of principle which should be settled before any attempts are started. The Christian People's Party believes that the fundamental objections are so important that they require better clarification than the Council of State is now addressing. But this whole-day school question has come up in connection with the renegotiation of the working time agreement with the teacher's organisations, which I think has been very well put in place, except that point about the whole day's school. My concern over that working time agreement is twofold, because Giske tends to launch reforms without sending money to those who are going to implement the reforms. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: how will the Council of State ensure that the municipalities retain and spend money at school, and will municipalities that may extend the school day be compensated by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e332	Clearly, if we were to expand the number of hours in primary school in the future, we also have to look at the municipal economy. The government has set as a clear goal that we want the school leisure system to be cheaper. We want the kindergartens to be cheaper, and it is clear that it costs money for the municipalities. That is why, in the years to come, we need to ensure that municipalities are given increased resources and given a better economy. It is an essential part of our work to ensure the good welfare arrangements in the municipalities, and they are so reasonable that people can afford to participate in them. How they implement different arrangements within their frameworks, I think we should give municipalities greater freedom to find out. For some people it might be adding some extra school hours. That's the full opportunity for some municipalities to do it. For others it may be – e.g. As they have done in Drøbak — to add money to special education into the school leisure system, so that the students who go there will also receive a better follow-up from teachers. There may be different ways to do this that each municipality needs to figure out. But the goal must be that every child gets a real offer, and I think they're actually best able locally to figure out what it takes to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e339	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e342	This case travels basically also the question of whether you have fundamental fundamental attitudes. Does the Council of State have the view that, regardless of age, the school should provide good learning through knowledge and good attitudes, or has it now also taken the view that the school should be a substitute for general welfare and family policies in society? Because here there's a fundamental distinction. If the Council of State turns the school into a general welfare policy instead of finding solutions elsewhere, the Council of State will be accomplices in a process that makes parents quite voluntarily seek private school solutions, for which I perceive that the Council of State is concerned. It might be worth noting that today the Parenting Committee for Primary School starts a fight to get better quality in primary school. So my question is, does the Council of State see a fundamental distinction between what is school and what can be the practical exploitation of the buildings of the school, or does he now mix welfare policy into the school under the motto: what we can't solve in family policy, it really has to include in addition?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e347	Obviously, there is a part that is school – we have curricula that students are going through. It's solid. But then 100 000 children in Norway from 1st to 4th grade have a full-time school leave provision. Much of this is happening in the same areas as schoolwork does. This is when we say that even if we are to meet the curriculum for the individual – it is established – it must be possible to spend time in the school leisure system, for the children who are there, and school time more flexibly. For a 6-year-old, learning and playing are not clearly marked with watertight bulkheads – for a 6-year-old, the play and learning go hand in hand. You learn when you play, and you play when you learn. What's relevant to attitudes, values, which are also kind of the role of the school's mission, is also as much in the game as in learning. So here we have to assume what the children need, not what we perceive is going to be one or the other. When it is that 100,000 children use a full-time offer, we have to take the consequences and make the quality of that offer as good as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e353	Ursula Evje – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e356	State Council Giske now takes on the basic needs of the children and repeats a lot of what he said in the news on Thursday last week that the children perceive the school as a play, and then they'll have to play all day. But isn't the Council of State thinking of the basic idea that children actually need their parents as well? Children need their home in a completely different way from what they spend at all-day school, their way back and forth and quality time one to two hours with their parents in the evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e361	Let me repeat: we don't go to a whole day school for all children. We suggest that those children who need it will have the opportunity to get a good offer all day. I fully agree that children need their parents, and if it's such that one of the parents, relatives or neighbors is home and you can go home from school at 0 p.m. 11 to a safe community, is nothing better than that. But the reality in today's world is that this is not the case. The alternative is not to go home to their parents, the option for many children will be to go home with the key around the neck of empty houses and TV, or the street corner or shopping center as the only leisure activity. That's when we say that as a community, we have to take responsibility for expanding a school leisure scheme, a full-time offer, for the children who need it, so that the parents who are at work then know that their children are in a safe environment. So now we spend NOK 3 to 4 billion on supporting those who want to be at home with their children. We've said that it's okay, we accept it, but now I honestly think that the time has come to also make a promise for those who are out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e366	Petter Løvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e369	It's possible that it's like the Council of State Giske let us understand that it's the media and the Norwegian people who haven't understood, and that's where the mistake lies. But there must be reason to point out that the Council of State Gishe has said whether these attempts have been unclear. It started with Gishe opening for all day schooling for six-year-olds, now he is supporting a well-marked Right trial in Drøbak – and that experiment is quite different from the Gish language. There's an attempt inside the sculetide, before noon. 13, then students go to the voluntary school leave scheme with a certain parental payment. Here we are at the core of the whole problem, what has created ambiguity and discussion. It would be much better to know what the council meant, so we could start discussing it and not just explain it out. But the point is, will the Council of State help us to continue to have a clear distinction between the compulsory, free base and a school free time system that is itself valuable, but something completely different?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e374	Of course, it should be that we have a clear curriculum. It is for all children to go through, and it must be free of charge and arranged for all. Then we're going to have volunteer leisure. But that's not the case in Drübak either, as we refer to here, that there's a clear distinction between what's school and school leisure, because there's a little intertwining, and you use the teacher's powers more flexibly. That is what we have arranged for. But what would have happened in Drübak if we, for example, had done as the Right believes, and removed State aid for the school leisure system? At that time it would not have been possible to implement that type of arrangement. That's why I say we have to support the municipalities that want to do things in new ways, and then they have to be allowed to decide locally what their needs are – the needs of their parents and the needs of the children – and then we can contribute with the support of the state to a school leisure system, so that they can afford to implement it. Without that, I don't think it's going to be any of the full-time offers at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e379	Marit Tingelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e382	The Labour Party and the Centre often share common views on training policy. But this whole-day school proposal, without more thorough investigations and assessments than what is now revealed, we're distancing ourselves from it. Such a major reform must be thoroughly implemented. I also ask, where was the parental committee for primary school in this case? We've been worried about all day school, as it could deprive parents of the opportunity to choose between their own care and an organised leisure service. However, following the proposals of the Council of State Giske on probation for a combination of school and school leisure arrangements, we are more concerned about the fact that we can get a school with partial parental pay, and we are similarly concerned about the health minister Tønne's proposal for self-payment in hospitals. We already know that some kids don't attend school because their parents can't afford it. My question to the Council of State is therefore: How is Giske going to secure the single school without payment?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e387	I fully agree that the use of handicrafts in Norwegian school is too high. For this reason, we have started work on monitoring the use by the Ministry, so that action can be taken. For what is school must be free, and it must be for everyone. But when Tingelstad says you're against a full-time school or an entire offer, I wonder, what are the 100,000 children who today have 20 hours of school and more than 15 hours of school leave arrangements going to do in the hours when they're no longer going to get a full-day offer? Should they be sent home to empty houses? Should they be sent home to the street corners? We have to make sure they have a good offer. And that's when we say that the municipalities that want it must be able to organise this more flexibly, for example. like Drøbak, where you have some Norwegian lessons, and then maybe football games, and then English. Today you have Norwegian hours and English hours in a row, and then you have school leisure arrangements. It cannot be that the principle ideological distinction in Norwegian school policy is about whether you can play football between two English hours! How this can best be organised according to the needs of the children and the needs of the parents must be able to find out locally by each municipality. In Drøbak it led to a fixed day from eight to one. For example, it did. also much easier to get good school skyscrapers, and students did not wait as much for the bus that had to be adapted to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e394	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e397	We have just heard an offensive and action-oriented state council, and I want to take advantage of such willingness to act among state councils. There are three state councils here that jointly can secure the fight against racism, the fight for tolerance and the fight for culture. Of course, I aim to protect and secure the theatre school of the Nordic Black Theatre in Oslo. And I want to ask the Minister of Culture if she has now found a solution that ensures this institution a lasting existence, knowing that on either side of her there are two government councils that are strongly involved. But that's why I also had the opening that here, of course, the government's power of action can be measured directly. So I'm waiting with joy for the councillor Horn's answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e406	I am very committed to finding a solution to the overall multicultural offer in Norway, and in Oslo in particular, where there is the greatest concentration of artists and activities from artists who have a different cultural background than the Norwegian one. As far as Nordic Black Theatre School is concerned, I myself attended school not long ago and had a good dialogue with both the teacher's and the management of the school and with the students, which showed a very inconclusive situation. As far as the application for private school is concerned, it is on the table of the Council of State Giske. We will return as soon as possible with an answer to the school's enquiries, both in the long term and in the short term. I have said that I will come up with my thoughts on this in connection with the 2002 state budget. But it's not in time for Nordic Black Theatre School, so I promised the school I'd come back with an answer by 1 June at the latest, and hopefully by 15 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e415	After this opening and initial manoeuvre, my supplementary question follows to the Council of State. Tomorrow, State Council Giske will receive the gift from the Stortinget to ensure the provisions of the Private School Act that enable a private theatre school for Nordic Black Theatre to be secured. And since this is not an ACE school, but simply an artistic, cultural and multicultural school that fights all the crazy things in the world, I'm waiting for us to get an extraordinarily fast process on the application for a private theatre school to secure the multicultural Oslo. Could state council possibly guarantee it, so that state councillor Horn per. 1 June can give a good answer to the theatre school at the Nordic Black Theatre?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e420	I can promise the representative Dørum that all private school applications to the department will receive thorough, good and proper treatment, and as quickly as it can be done properly. The Nordic Black Theatre began now as a labour market measure specifically designed to integrate minority groups into the Norwegian community. And that we're concerned that Nordic Black Theatres should be able to continue, I think we're united about. But I also want to, if I may, challenge the representative of Dørum – although it may not be common in a Question Time – to contact their affiliates in the Municipality of Oslo, so that the community also helps to facilitate the continuation of Nordic Black Theatre's activities. Because it is an important activity, and it is an action that is positive for integration. And then we get to ignore these watertight divisions between the departments and say that we're one state and one public authority, and work together to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e427	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e432	My question is also addressed to the Minister of Church, Education and Research. And I want to go back to these experimental agreements that have been debated a little earlier. The agreements currently concluded are, of course, a follow-up to the Storting decision. I want to make Stortinget aware that, in connection with the recruitment message, we asked the Ministry for good arrangements so that one could try out alternative ways of organizing working hours. So it was a majority that expressed it. One of the attempts we've been talking a little bit about, what's going on, the integration of SFO and school -- and it creates a lot of problems. That's where I think the Council of State is a little fuzzy. One goes on the very financing. We have a self-payment system within the school leisure system, and the school should be free of charge. That's where I think the Council of State must be quite clear. If we are to achieve such integration as we are talking about – we are not talking about all day school, we are talking about the integration of SFO and school – the Council of State must be quite clear that this should be free of charge. It's not about self-payment. The second question is who is going to teach, and who is going to run this business. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e443	The President knows that that will be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e446	I was actually a little surprised last week about the reactions to these trials, because it's quite right, as the representative Reikam says, that this is a follow-up to the treatment of the recruitment message that the Stortinget did, and it's also a follow-up to the action plan we've been working with the teachers, where over a three-year period we're going to do some centralized tests and also to see if the organization of the school can free up resources, so that teachers can get more pay. If we are to ensure that teachers are properly recruited in the future, it is important that we continue the work that the Workers' Party has done last year, with an average salary of NOK 30000 for the teachers. There's a lot of trials. I really think there are other trials that are at least as interesting as those around the school vacation scheme, among other things. the attempt to divide the working day of the teachers into a fixed period of time and free time rather than into timetables, which may give the germ to the school of the future. As far as school and school leisure arrangements are concerned, I would say that all the fulfillment of the curricula is school time. It's got to be free. It must be for everyone. Then it's the care service or the school leisure service. You have the opportunity to charge for that. The government wants that payment down. In some municipalities, we have seen strong jumps in the prices of the school leisure scheme. We want that price to be reduced. But there is an opportunity to charge for the school leisure system. The fact that by merging or reorganising school and school leisure arrangements, you can make it possible to continue taking the self-payment — that is, if the school leisure system for those students who want it comes between two hours of English — I see nothing in principle wrong. But it is clear that the goal must really be that both the school leisure system and the school are free of charge. In any case, the school leave price must be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e455	I think that the Council of State is now getting a little unclear in relation to what is the goal of this. The point is that learning is done in different ways. Learning is also done when you kick football or whatever it is. So now the Council of State has to decide: is this an integration, a new view of learning, learning is something that is going on not just in the schools themselves, but in the time that students and adults are together? If he means the last thing – and I hope that’s what he means – that means that this should be free, and that we don’t have to start with any self-payment regardless of whether we can say that we’re now making a self-payment for those football lessons there, and then we don’t make a self-payment here, because now it’s education. Now he has to decide what view he has of learning. If what underlies this agreement is a particular view of learning, he must say clearly: it must be free of charge. So to the question I was going to ask, President -- it's about educators. Under the school leisure system, we have a system where there is no requirement for those to work there to be educators. We in SV have tried to get it in; we have not received it. The question is: Will there be demands on those who are going to work in our new school in the field of education?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e462	I have to spend a little time on what Reikvam spent the most time on, that is, this with children's learning. Children learn all the time. They learn when they are at school, they learn in the school leisure system, they learn in the school way, and they learn when they are at home. A child absorbs knowledge and uses what they experience in his or her learning. Now it's like approx. half of the first grades are full-time in the school leisure system. They learn in the school leisure system, but they pay for the school leisure system. I don't know if the representative Rikvam is in principle against it. I share the objective that it should be free of charge. At least prices have to go down. But the reason they have a school - leisure offer is that they do not have adequate adult supervision and adults at home. A child who does not use the school leave scheme comes home or is in other types of schemes where they are with adults and learns there. So the school leisure system and what we're doing there is really to compensate for the children who don't have the opportunity and the offer to have adult supervision and attention for the rest of the time. From this point of view, I would say that the school leave system works evenly in relation to children's learning, even though there are some children who are not there, and some children who are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e469	There will be additional questions – Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e472	The state councils are still unclear in their censure. He announces a strengthening of the SFO, he announces reduced parental pay, he announces strengthened quality. Then my question will be: does he also warn with this an additional strengthening of the local economy? If the parental payment goes down, and if the school day is to be extended, it will cost money. Now the Labour Party claims that they gave a lift to the municipalities for the current year. From the center we will say that we were involved and strengthened the finances of the municipalities further. But it is today that the expenditure in the municipalities is higher than the income. For this reason, it has just been cut against children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e480	It is quite clear that many of the measures that the Workers' Party considers to be most important to implement now, i.e. more reasonable kindergarten, after a free core period in kindergarten, more reasonable school leave arrangements and upgrading the quality of the school, are the municipalities responsible for. They can't possibly handle it with budgets cut short. On the contrary, in the years to come, we also need to ensure that municipalities are provided with increased resources. I hope we get support from the Center Party to implement it. I hope that the Labour Party will have so many votes in the election that we have a majority in this Chamber to implement it for the autumn. After all, we know from experience from the two and a half years before we got into government, that other majority constellations, other forms of cooperation, do not necessarily lead to more money for welfare systems and more money for joint actions. So these are political leaders. But our goal is for municipalities to have a better economy and be better able to offer a real offer at school, in health, in kindergartens – on the primary tasks that may be the most important ones for us here in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e485	Erna Solberg – for additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e488	I'd like to go back to the pedagogical challenges in high school, which was one of the starting points of the main question. It's so I have a daughter who's almost four years old. I would essentially recommend the Council of State to get a couple of these. Then you learn something about learning and learning. My daughter is already looking forward to starting school in two years. The problem is that she expects that school to be something other than the nursery she goes into, and that's what she's looking forward to. Last fall a report was published that showed that very many children were disappointed at the 6-year-old school start, because when they started school they didn't feel there was any difference between having gone to kindergarten and actually starting school. The models and trials that are now being tested for a full-day school, which the Council of State has been fighting hot for the past week, are all models that indicate that this distinction between learning and playing, is in a way a continuation of kindergarten. Isn't the Council of State worried about adding up to a school scheme that's going to disappoint and lower the curriculum of the six-year-olds?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e497	I understand that children who have been seven-eight hours in kindergarten and experienced a lot there, and who then come to a school that offers four hours of school time and then it's right home, feel that this was a slight downturn compared to what they might have expected to be the public offer for children. That is why we have developed a school leisure scheme to which the Right is opposed to State aid being granted. There'll hardly be any better school leisure arrangements of that. Therefore, we must continue to expand it and secure that offer. We need to develop the quality of school, the way teachers have the opportunity to communicate what's in the curriculum, and we need to develop the full-time provision for the children who need it. Then we have to be open that some municipalities can organize it in a freer way. We can't be so backward and old-fashioned that we sit here and say no, you can't do that. We have to give the municipalities some freedom and the schools some freedom to do this. The right has proposed the release of private schools. What, then, is to be done with regard to possible alternatives and organisation? But when it comes to public school, you have to hold back and say no, no, no, you can't do this. We have to give them the opportunity to find the solutions locally, because I think they are absolutely able to do that. But then we have to make sure they have enough money to do that, and then 17 billion dollars in tax bills – with all due respect – are not the way to get more money for schools in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e506	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e509	I have a question to the Council of State Giske. Earlier in the Questionnaire today, the second main question was about the working time agreement concluded with the teacher organisations. He has also shown that he is no longer talking about a full-day school, but about a complete offer. And this is something else. We already have a comprehensive offer through school and SFO today. And then part of us sits there wondering what's new in the proposals of the Council of State. My main question to the Council of State is therefore: can he confirm that everyone who is going to participate in the new experiment, which is part of this, has to be in school all the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e518	I can only say that, as the representative here refers to, I am a little surprised that the attempt at SFO is being made as a revolution in Norwegian school. I think other parts of the trial here are if not revolutionary, so quite radical, and I'm really quite impressed that the teacher organizations have been involved. I had really expected not to praise, so a little bit of positive over that here we actually get to new things for Norwegian school. I can confirm again that those who do not want an extended day will not get it. It's supposed to be voluntary. But to take the example from Drøbak that was used here, you were able to make an offer there for all the children from at noon. 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 13.00, that is, an extended day, something that parents were happy with, that they wanted to attend, and that all parents also had an opportunity to reserve themselves against. So there was a local opportunity to find a solution that gave an expanded offer, which even gave you a free quote, so you used the money a new and better way. And they know locally that this is going to work. With regard to the 30,000 first-graders who are now in SFO 15 hours or more, I believe that we have not only a right, but an obligation to ensure that that offer is as good as possible, even by using the teacher's powers more flexibly. And what we got last week was that the teachers' organizations said, "Yes, we're using the staff of the SFO and the staff of the school more flexibly between the two schemes." Instead of saying that you're an employee of the SFO, and you have the children from 0 p.m. 12 noon to noon 16:00, and correspondingly that you have school, we say that we have responsibility for the same children. We're at work the same day, and then we also have to be able to use our cancers a little bit more flexibly. Perhaps it is a child who needs to be followed up by one adult throughout the day, from school to school leisure, etc. Then we can't sit here and say no, you shouldn't be allowed to. There must be children’s needs that govern how we use our resources in school and in school leisure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e536	The Council of State almost wants to receive some support for this working time agreement. I'm going to give him support for one thing, which is actually the most revolutionary in this working time contract, and it's the attempt without read-only regulations in school. There's something quite different than this SFO/school debate. That's where I think it's very good. But the problem is, when one goes to the last attempt of the Council of State, where it's not about all day school anymore, but about a complete offer, that he doesn't go into the principle of the distinction between a mandatory offer and a voluntary offer, and the free principle and probabilities. And as long as you don't manage to operate with a principal distinction here, this becomes unclear, diffuse, and it seems that your parents have to deal with something that they might not want. You want your kid to have a good offer, but what's this new one now? Does that mean that they suddenly have to pay for things that really belong within the school, and that belong within the free principle? The Council of State does not respond to the principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e543	I can repeat: No, what belongs to the school, what concerns the implementation of the curriculum, it should not be paid for, it should be free for everyone, as it is today. The school leisure system shall be voluntary; it shall be possible for each parent to say that my child shall not be included in that part. So I don't know how much clearer I can say that. I can repeat it one more time, so that it becomes double clear, but clearer than that, I can't say it: it's voluntary, and it's free – voluntary SFO and free school. But then the municipalities have to look at the local conditions and find solutions. There are a lot of examples of this even in right-hand-ruled municipalities, although the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are central to skepticism. So to the expression "all-day school". I have not used the term ‘all-day school’. That's the expression of the press. I've been talking about an entire offer all along. I have from the beginning said that you should have a complete offer. All-day school would mean expanding teaching time. There are parties that believe it, and propose it, and there are also municipalities that extend the teaching time. But if you do that, it has to apply to everyone, because it has to be equal to the implementation of the curriculum for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e550	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e553	I have a question to the state council Trond Giske. We've now discussed trials in a lot of Norwegian schools. But what are we actually doing with all of these trials? What do we do with our children? They don't have the opportunity to say that no, stop the world, I can't take any more attempts. I want a safe, stable, good and predictable day at school. I don't want to participate as an experimental animal in an attempt to allow politicians in the Stortinget to develop a new school. There are some policies in this and some aspects of value that are quite important. And when I guess at the top of it all says that they want to try for teachers to get better pay, I'm getting quite excited. Children don't get in replay. When childhood is over, it's over. And if we as adults, responsible people have wasted that time on the children, we've committed something so criminal that it's not to believe. What will Gish do to get values and quality into these trials so that they can be reused in other schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e565	Of course, children should not be guinea pigs. On the contrary, trials have been organised to give children a better day. That's the overall objective of the trials. But if we had not conducted trials in Norwegian school, we still had a school where the teachers were behind the catheter every hour – one teacher, one class, one subject, continuously. We had grades in high school, and we didn't have the right to high school. Now I've registered that what's in the Progress Party program is that you want exactly the type of school, that you want to go back to what was before these trials were carried out, and so I kind of understand the scepticism about developing the school further. But I think that trying different things, that communities get to develop offers that suit them, is the best way to create better quality. If we do it on a small scale, learn from it, find out what's positive and develop it further, I think it's better than to start the big, grandiose reforms that are going to sort of squander over the heads of the communities. As far as teachers' wages are concerned, I think the most important way to provide proper recruitment for the teaching profession is that we pay the teaching profession even better. In Norway, we have about the highest teacher density in relation to students who have any country in the world. We have to ask ourselves, how can we better organise that work, so that teachers get more time with the students just to transfer the values, attitudes and learning that the teacher needs, but also in such a way that it gives room for teachers to get better pay? Because when we spend so much money at primary school, we also have to constantly ask ourselves how that money can be used as best as possible for teachers to get good pay, and for students to get a real offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e572	I have a follow-up question to the Council of State: More research had a survey some time ago, and it was found that the majority of the teachers did not consider it to have a leading role in the Norwegian school. This is in itself frightening. Today a new study was presented on TV 2, where it appears that 12 pst. of the offenders are under 18 years of age, i.e. people in a school situation. This may indicate that the tests have been completely taken over and that the value base has been lost. Trials to get a better school can be carried out in higher education. They can be used as a term to get a better teacher training than what we have today. Will the Council of State do anything to get this done instead of postponing the children for these trial items?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e579	I just have to correct a little bit in terms of the investigation in relation to the employer's responsibility. As far as I remember – but I have to make sure that I do not remember correctly, because it was approx. One year ago – the question was whether the school had a primary responsibility in the role of the contractor. And I don't think I have that school. I think the parents have a primary responsibility for that. But it's clear that the school and the teachers have a partial responsibility in the assignment job. The children are very much of their waking time at school, and the values and attitudes they learn there will be very molding for the children. And I also believe that the teachers fully agree that they have a responsibility for it. I find it very difficult to see that the tests we're doing with, for example. organise the teaching in groups, organise the teaching with cross-disciplinary projects and develop the school so that teachers get more time with the students, have any connection with that 12 pst. the offenders are under 18 years of age. I think that's completely independent. I think, on the contrary, that reorganization of school, better contact between teacher and student, actually makes teachers better able to transfer the values that we want our children and young people to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e584	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e589	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Lisbet Rugtvedt to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 2, from the representative Johan J. Jakobsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 5, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister of Labour and Administration, will be answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister of Labour and Administration, who has been removed. Question 15, from the representative of Mr Sverre J. Hoddevik to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has been removed. Question 20, from the representative Einar Steensnæs to the Minister for Agriculture, will be raised by the representative Olaf Gedrem. Question 24, from the representative of Kristin Halvorsen to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be addressed by the representative of Ågot Valle.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e611	This question, from the representative Lisbet Rugtvedt to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e614	I would like to ask the following questions: ‘Norway participates in preparations for a new broad WTO round, including: on the further development of the General Agreement on Trade in Services [[GATS]] Will the Government contribute to the clear conclusion, through the forthcoming negotiations, in the GATS agreement that the competition rules should not prevent each country from deciding for itself how to organise its public services and that the agreement should push forward competitive outsourcing in several areas of the public sector?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e623	In 1994 Norway acceded to the Agreement establishing the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, and to the trade agreements negotiated during the so-called Uruguay Round. At the same time, it was decided to continue negotiations in two key areas of the WTO – trade in services and agriculture. These negotiations were initiated per year. 1 January 2000. Norway’s trade in services forms an important part of Norwegian exports. Last year the value of Norway’s service exports amounted to about DKr 135 billion. The development of the world market for services will undoubtedly be of major importance to the Norwegian economy in the coming years. To the question of the relationship between the agreement and the public sector, Mr Rangtvedt's representative, I can confirm that there is nothing in the agreement that prevents the Member States from deciding for themselves how to organise their public services. It is clearly stated in the agreement that this right is conferred on the Member States. The structure of the GATS Agreement is such that the Member States themselves positively specify which services are open to foreign providers. This is done by so-called binding lists created for each country. In other words, with this structure, the authorities of a country have full control over the commitments made by the country for increased market access. The service agreement already clearly recognises in the foreword of the Member States: «the right to regulate and to introduce new regulation of services within its territory in order to meet national policy objectives». The issue of the outsourcing of public services is thus a matter decided by the national authorities, and nothing in the agreement is pushing this forward. The GATS Code is not about privatisation or outsourcing, but about developing driving rules, where it is possible to reach agreement on this, for members' trade in services. Individual countries decide here themselves the extent of the commitments they choose to assume.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e645	I thank you for your answer. The GATS Agreement states, as the Council of State states, that services provided by public authorities are not included in the agreement. However, such services are defined in point 1.3 of the Agreement as services provided neither on a commercial basis nor in competition with one or more service providers. [[bb]] As is known, a number of public services are gradually being exposed to competition with one or more service providers and therefore this does not seem to be a sustainable definition. When public services are put out to competition in countries that have traditionally had a strong welfare state, it is no wonder that a pressure is coming from large companies to open up these growing service markets, for example. in the field of health and education, for international free competition. The question is therefore whether the Norwegian Government wishes to contribute to the repair of this weakness of the GATS Agreement and to clarify that public services are not to be subject to the competition rules of the GATS. Will the Government contribute to the adoption of a clearer wording on this point in the forthcoming negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e659	I would like to repeat some of what I said at the outset, namely that there is nothing in the agreement that prevents the Member States themselves from deciding how to organise their public services, and that it is clearly stated in the agreement that this right is conferred on the Member States. I can also say a little about how we have participated in the WTO negotiations on this, which may be of interest in this context. Last week we presented several Norwegian negotiating proposals for services, which cover six service areas: shipping, aviation, energy services, telecommunications services, financial services and so-called business and professional services. These are all important export sectors for Norwegian industry. In particular, through the EEA Agreement, Norway already has an open market for these service areas. Through the WTO negotiations, we want to ensure Norwegian companies improved market access in key markets for Norwegian service providers. Nor are the Norwegian proposals aimed at liberalising or privatising the public sector. In the past, we have also tabled proposals in the agricultural negotiations. In addition to the negotiations that have begun, useful work has been carried out both in Geneva and through bilateral contacts in the capitals, with a view to laying the foundations for a new broad round. In this context, it is not least that the new US administration has indicated a positive attitude towards such new negotiations. I hope that there will be opportunities to reach agreement on new broad negotiations up to the next World Trade Organisation Ministerial Conference, which will take place in Qatar at the beginning of November, not least in the interests of developing countries, also in the field of services.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e668	What we have registered from SV's side is that there is a pressure coming from other sides, among other things. by the US team, on increasing the competitive deployment of public services and opening up this sector more to free trade. What we therefore expect from a social democratic government is that a clear message should be given that one will go against such proposals that can help to promote competition and the privatisation of the public sector. From the point of view of the SV, it is important to prevent the GATS agreement from contributing to the absolute commercialisation and sale of everything. And of course, we who are followers of a strong and qualified public sector want to be curbed for this development through the forthcoming WTO round. Unfortunately, the Norwegian debate proposal does not make it clear that the Government will enter into negotiations with a defence of the public sector. It does not just hold out that it is up to each country to organise its public services. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether the Government can assure us that it will actively work towards the conclusion that the agreement will contribute to increased privatisation, and thus demonstrate the proposals and pressure that come from other sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e675	I am actually a little surprised that this discussion and criticism is being addressed to the World Trade Organisation and the GATS negotiations, because it is so clearly specified that with regard to the public sector, it is up to the Member States themselves. With regard to the political debate and the pressure from various actors in the international community to privatise services that we want to manage in public, there is no direct link between what is happening in the WTO and what is happening in the WTO. On the contrary. I have recently had discussions with my colleagues, development ministers in other Western countries, who are also concerned about this problem, and who are strongly involved in the social field and also in protecting parts of this service production that we must have in the public sector, and they are, I would say, relatively doubtful that there will be such a derailment of the debate on the role of the WTO in this area. I don't think that's appropriate. What is important is that we focus on what should be public service production and what should be private service production.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e690	This question has been postponed to the next question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e696	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: «The evening post writes on 17 March 2001 that Kontreadmiral Kjell-Birger Olsen's candidacy for a top position in NATO has been drawn. The reason shall be the counter-miral's statements to the press on the decommissioning of the MTB weapon and the importance of monitoring our marine areas. Does the Council of State feel it would be better for this position to go to other countries in front of Norway to show that breaches of the «obligation» on oral cords in relation to the Defense Study 2000 will have consequences for the officer concerned, and what freedom of expression is subsequently infecting him?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e705	On the question from the representative Bastesen about the reason why the nomination of the countermiral was withdrawn, I would like to state, as the press official of the department did in the evening post the same day, that the Government does not, in principle, comment on the disposal of the officer in the defense. In the case of freedom of expression for officers, I refer to what I said in the Stortinges Question Time on 10 January this year. There are no legal barriers which specifically restrict the right of the officer corps to participate in the public debate. On the contrary, the Government considers it valuable that insightful officers participate in the discussion on general defence issues, including, of course, the Maritime Defense. However, it must be expected that any person may exercise discretion. The closer you get, the closer you get. the decision-maker comes to an end of proceedings, the more cautious the individual should be with regard to public disclosure of decisions taken. This is the usual position in the state, and I refer again to my previous answers in the Questionnaire on this, and also to the Prime Minister's answer to questions about a similar issue. With regard specifically to the 2000 Defence Study from the Chief of Defense, I would like to remind you that there are, to a large extent, officers from all areas of defence who have participated in the internal and professional investigation prior to the Chief of Defence's recommendations to the Department. Of course, the same military chiefs are available to the Defence Committee, whether or not they have been ‘supplied’ in the Defence Study or in the Proposition, as clarified yesterday in the ordinary hearing of the Committee. And I refer here to the opinions of the committee's chairman after the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e714	I have an additional question. The minister has previously stated that he does not perceive the situation there until the officer's corps have been imposed on the oral basket. I have neither seen nor heard so far that still serving officers have been actively involved in the debate on the future defence – even before the surrender of the Chief of Defense. Defence's coastal radar and coastal surveillance tasks are not covered by the option, but the silence on this is not an indication that the situation may be somewhat different from what the minister has perceived?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e724	No, there's no oral tissue. I have daily newspaper clippings – from both retired and still serving officers – in large quantities. And I don't think anyone can say that a missing information about that, for example. The marine defense believes that the MTB weapon is strongly prioritised in the future and has its specific reasons for it – for which it is fully respected – as well as for all other defence branches. I don't have the impression that this is someone who underestimates information because you say that you are not allowed to inform. On the contrary, we rely on insightful officers to participate in the debate. That is what I have said about this. In addition, I want to refer to the main answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e729	I have another question. As the minister understands, my sources have explained that from the highest level of defence, there has been an order for detention with information. This probably has an explanation, but it is unfortunate that, in the democratic process in progress, there are disagreements between the Minister's perception of the situation and the signals that flow to the Storting. It must be clear that the expectations of the Minister and the Storting are the same. Will the Minister of Defence take the initiative to inform the officer's stand about the expectations of the Minister of Defence and the Stortinget, as far as open room discussions are concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e738	It is very difficult to comment on explanations from the anonymous sources of the representative Bastisen. I have publicly said what I believe about this several times, and I have repeated it here today. A few more public speakers than this, I cannot see that there is, so I believe that the need to be met must be said. I will again refer to the flow of newspaper clippings and newspaper inserts by constantly serving officers and by retired officers, suggesting that we have a flora of very useful debates about the device on the future defense, including air defence, maritime defence, land defence, home security and everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e746	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘The need for emergency aid in the Kola peninsula is high and the voluntary effort by the Norwegian side is significant. Y ́s Men ́s Club in Harstad distributed clothing, shoes, carpets, etc. from military surplus stocks, and since 1999, in cooperation with the Church’s Emergency Aid. However, letter of 27 April 2000 from the Defence Overcommander refers to this practice. Will the Council of State take the initiative to remove bureaucratic obstacles so that relief organisations such as the Y’s Men’s Club can also access military surplus stocks?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e755	The defence receives a number of enquiries each year from foundations and organisations wishing to take over surplus material. The defence has as a guideline to cooperate with the main humanitarian organisations. It's to make sure that donations of surplus material from the Defense are seen in a larger context and given priority to areas where the need is greatest. Per. Today, the defense cooperates with Norway's Red Cross, Norwegian People's Aid, Save the Children, the Salvation Army and the Church's Emergency Aid. There are currently no humanitarian organisations — including those mentioned above — that have direct access to defence surplus stocks. In the event of major humanitarian disasters in the country and abroad, the defence will be able to contribute materially. Support is then channelled through the humanitarian organisations after treatment in the so-called Disaster Commission, led by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The last time such humanitarian aid was given was in the context of the conflicts in Kosovo. This practice is described in the letter from the Defence Command, to which reference is made. There has been no conversion of the procedures, as suggested in the question. This does not preclude, in some cases, exemption from the provisions. The Ministry of Defence will be able to do so upon specific request for assistance for a specific purpose. That's how the defense has previously donated material to Y's Men's Club's work on the Kola Peninsula – which I see positively. A prerequisite for the Ministry of Defence to meet such an enquiry is that it is clear what kind of material is needed and that the defence has a surplus of the material categories concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e764	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it is positive that the Council of State takes a positive view of the work of the Y's Men's Club in Harstad. This association has sent humanitarian aid to the Murman state – mostly to Kirovsk – since 1990. Per. Today 50 shipments have been sent, each with approx. 80 m3. Throughout the 1990s, this association has had good contact with the U.D. and received money, but has also cooperated with the Ministry of Defence, to which reference is made. But the association has encountered problems after you no longer want to automatically approve the cooperation they have had with the Church's Emergency Aid. I am very concerned that we get an insurance from the Council of State that he will now take the initiative that the Y's Men's Club can continue its business, a business that has been going on for ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e773	I almost have to refer to my first answer. So we don't think that this is a new guideline. It is based on concrete requests for assistance for specific purposes — and many of them will over time — that the Ministry and the Defence Department respond to this. This means that each individual enquiry has to be assessed separately, there are no limitations to this than that. I can say, on behalf of the Ministry, that there are no new constraints now regarding the opportunities offered by the Men Club for continued assistance and support. Each enquiry must be considered separately. The connection to the Church's Emergency Aid and other organizations is unknown to me in this context, and I'd like to help clarify it if there's things the ministry here is not aware of.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e780	I have received a lot of correspondence that shows that there has been a change. I think it's sad, since there's been such a commitment to the local environment to help cross the border in a situation that's very dramatic in many ways, that part of the goods that's been conveyed, vital goods like clothes, shoes and carpets, have actually gone to destruction instead of being used for emergency aid. I hope the Council of State will ensure that this does not happen, and that no bureaucratic obstacles are put in the way of the Defence Command for the valuable work and the local initiative that has been going on since 1990.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e789	I would like to receive copies of the material with which the representative Rise had to sit, so that we can clarify this issue. I repeat: I am not familiar with new and bureaucratic, negative guidelines in relation to what has been practised in the past. We will evaluate each individual application in the usual way. But the story – the representative says he has papers that can light it – I am interested in studying.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e799	This question, from Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister of Labour and Administration, will be answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister of Labour and Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e802	I will ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs the following questions: ‘According to the Municipal Report of 22 March 2001, the Sandbeck Committee’s investigation into public sector postponing competition has been put in a drawer by the Government. The majority in the Sandbeck Committee thought that between 10 and 30 pst. could be saved if competitive outsourcing was used to increase the efficiency of the public sector. Does the Government really choose not to take a closer look at this work when it is estimated that there are so many savings potentials, and does the Government not at all care that billions of money may be saved through competitive outsourcing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e811	The government will primarily focus on renewing and not privatising the public sector. The government will therefore also choose the instruments that we believe are compatible with this objective. A strong welfare state is the basis for the government's policy. If the values of the welfare state are to survive, we need to be able to get more services out of the resources – both human and economic – that are currently being transferred to the public sector. This is because the public sector needs to perform its tasks in an increasingly tight labour market, and users need to feel more strongly about their needs. In addition, consideration of the country’s economy limits the growth of public expenditure. The public sector is faced with new demands because the population and business will no longer find themselves in long waiting lists, incomprehensible rules, complicated bureaucracy and lack of service. The old ideals of non-discrimination are challenged by demands for diversity and flexibility. Rigid rules are challenged by demands of judgement and reason. Bureaucratic structures are under pressure from demands for effective solutions. The user will be at the centre, and it is increasingly the attitude of employees. Renewal and conversion capacities shall characterise the public sector in the future. Therefore, it is necessary to review the public sector framework in order to remove unnecessary obstacles to the renewal work. By reviewing personnel policies, budgetary and financial management systems, information technologies and administrative legislation, we shall ensure that the framework supports the objectives of the renewal work. However, the renewal of the public sector requires close cooperation with the employees and their elected representatives, the municipal sector, the population and the business community. Participation and dialogue are both an objective and a means of destruction. This is the way the government wants to move on. The Government is committed to assessing all available instruments and strategies to achieve the main objective of an optimal public sector, including the different instruments addressed in the Sandbeck Committee’s decision-making process. It is important not only to make efficient use of resources but also to maintain the build-up of Community solutions. In the view of the Government, the outsourcing of competition is not the main response to the challenges facing the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e826	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think I can draw from the answer that using more competition in the public sector has become to some extent a non-case in the Government's plans to modernise the exclusive right of the heavy and old-fashioned public monopolies to provide citizens with publicly funded welfare services. It is clear from the Sandbeck Committee's setting, which was submitted last year, that it is possible to save 10-30 pst. to improve the efficiency of public service production, precisely through competitive exposure. With the signals now coming, the Government will not, in my view, hear anything particularly about such sensible measures that can make the large protected public sector more efficient and all the services provided there. In fact, I believe that we need to improve efficiency, and we need to expose the production of services in the public sector to competition. Some better solution doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e835	Here, the Labour Party and the Advance Party separate teams, because the Government believes that competitive outsourcing is not the main response to what we now need to renew the public sector. In the case of the Sandbeck Committee, it is correct, as Andersen’s representative here points out, that the sample considered that tendering should normally lead to 10-30 pst. cost-effectiveisation. However, these are figures which have not been confirmed in the case of Norwegian tender experience. I don't doubt that 10-30 pst. may result in accuracy based on foreign facts and experience. However, such an efficiency potential involves both an experienced and professional order, a competence that is likely to be acquired after some tender experience, and market conditions must also be present. This is not always the case for Norway. At the same time, one also sees that tenders involve a conversion cost for employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e842	The Council of State mentioned in its first response that it was important to take more services out of resources, and I do not think there is any better instrument in this way than to introduce competition to perform exactly those welfare services that are largely monopolyd on by public authorities today. But at the same time, I think it is worrying that we have a government that is governed by the professional interests of trade unionists, when, in my view, it is clearly harmful to the inhabitants of this country. We have a protected public service production without competition. This leads to higher costs and less focus on the quality of public services. I believe that the Workers' Party must sooner or later separate itself from the professional interests and speed up its modernisation and renewal plans, and they must be more willing to assess all the effective instruments, which include competitive outsourcing, when the Sandbeck Committee clearly suggests that there is a lot to pick up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e851	The Ministry of Labour and Administration is now working on systematising and summarising the hearing opinions on the position of the Sandbeck Committee and will, of course, come back after it has been done. The government is not governed by trade unions or professional interests, as Andersen's representative here says, but the Labour Party and the Advance Party have totally different views on how to make a public sector work better. We believe that one of the things that needs to be in place for us to do the public sector even better, which is necessary in many areas towards our citizens, is that we also have to play with those who work in the sector, because there are a lot of public sector employees who do an excellent job and who work pretty well, not least in the health sector. But what's a big challenge is that there's too many people working with administration and bureaucracy, who should do other things, that's to provide services to the population, whether it's in the health sector or in other sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e864	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Norway is now in the process of forcing 9 out of 10 Kosovo residents who have had temporary protection in our country. After Stavanger Aftenblad 21 March 2001, Sweden either provides asylum or abstinence on a humanitarian basis for 2 out of 3. In Sweden, they also discuss even more of those who want it, until further notice. What is the reason why two Nordic countries made so different assessments of a question where both receive advice from UNHCR?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e873	Norway evacuated more than 6,000 refugees, Sweden evacuated 3,500. While Norway provided temporary protection to some 8 000 people from Kosovo, Sweden provided similar protection to approximately 8 000 from Kosovo. 7 000. However, the composition of these groups has been different. While three out of four in Norway were evacuated refugees, about half in Sweden were persons who had come on their own and in part had several years of residence in Sweden behind them before the NATO action started. The difference in practice between Sweden and Norway can be well explained by the different compositions of the groups in the two countries. In Norway, about 12 pst. resided by the Kosovo refugees who have applied for asylum. Anyone who is refused can, of course, complain to the Department of Foreign Affairs. The study has not yet dealt with many Kosovo issues and the outcome of the treatment is thus unknown. In Sweden, approx. 45 pst. resided by applicants for asylum. Most of those who have received a residence permit in Sweden came on their own between 1995 and 1999. Long residence in Sweden has been important in many of the cases. In my view, it is therefore wrong to compare the rates of approval in Norway and Sweden without considering that the vast majority of those who have remained in Sweden came partly long before the NATO action started in spring 1999. Sweden, like Norway, granted a deferred leave period for persons who refused to leave during the winter. In Sweden the deadline was set at 15 March. Sweden has also chartered flights for its returns. The first was to go Thursday, March 22. It had to be set, because many of those who were going to be there disappeared. In the handling of asylum applications from persons from Kosovo, both Norwegian and Swedish authorities place great emphasis on recommendations from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. Both countries provide for returns for those who do not have a basis for further stay, and these are carried out in full understanding with the High Commissioner and the UN Administration in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e888	It goes with the comparison between Norway, Sweden and Denmark that Denmark and Sweden took their full share before the war, and thus have previously accepted far more than those who at that time had the opportunity to stop in Norway. I thought that, according to the state councils here, it could be desirable to have a more detailed briefing on the actual contact between Norway and Sweden when it comes to practice. I am concerned that temporary protection should be temporary, but I am concerned that it should be lifted when it is safe to return, and it should also be lifted in relation to a return which is itself safe. How is the contact there?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e897	Let me first say that I am glad that the representative of Meltveit Kleppa says what the government representative was in, also when the refugees from Kosovo came here during the war, that this was temporary protection, which was to be lifted on the day it was safe to return home. It is the same policy that this government is pursuing, and we have clear signals from the UN system, the UN High Commissioner and the UN Administration in Kosovo that it is safe for the majority of Kosovo Albanians to return. That's the same thing that Sweden does, of course. I can reassure – if it is reassuring – that of course we have contact with Sweden and the other Nordic countries also in relation to the return of Kosovo Albanians. I can also tell you that 4000 returnees have now passed. That means that over 50 pst. of those with collective protection now returning to Kosovo. There's a plane going on today, there's a plane going on Friday, and we expect to continue to be able to set up two planes a week. I also expect that we will still try to do this in as smooth, gentle and proper a way as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e906	When it comes to this comparison, it is a fact that Sweden offers either asylum or suspension to more people. It is also a fact that the help organisations are now in a position to say that they could have done more in relation to a safe return if they had received more funds. But in this area, there's slowing down, there seems to be a misunderstanding here between the funds that are being deployed on the military side, and those that are being deployed on the humanitarian side. My questions will then be: Does the Council of State think it is important to consider this question, in line with Sweden? Will the Council of State take an initiative to ensure a more secure return, i.e. greater chance of getting housing and getting work in construction activities for those returning? And the last one: What about today’s unrest – does the Council of State do something special about particular areas in Kosovo?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e913	I believe that the return we are now implementing and implementing is safe. And there's nothing government has taken out of the air, but it's following recommendations from the United Nations at different levels. In comparison with Sweden, I just want to say that the main explanation of the difference between Norway and Sweden in relation to those who are staying is that the groups are different. The situation in Kosovo has improved significantly in the last year. It is that the school situation is much better. Health services are much better. This also applies in relation to the housing situation. That's where the United Nations tells us that it's now about 40 pst. free capacity, so that those who come to Kosovo and who have to spend time rebuilding the house or building a new house have the temporary opportunity to have a place to live. I would like to add that we have also received a message from the United Nations that Norway is a red person who sends NOK 15 000 per person. person. There is a lot of money on the Kosovo scale – I think it is right to be generous – but it is a very good contribution to be able to rebuild their homes, at home in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e923	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘Unworthy and ethical concerns have been identified in the autopsy and removal of organs in Norwegian hospitals. What will the Council of State do to ensure a decent and good practice in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e932	I agree that what has emerged in the media in recent days has given examples that autopsy practices have not taken into account the respectable and dignified treatment of the deceased. In addition, questions can also be asked about the information provided to patients and relatives has been good enough. It is the transplant law of 1973 that gives the rules of hospital necrosis. The law does not require explicit consent from patients or relatives. However, if the deceased or his loved one has spoken against it, autopsy shall not be possible. The same applies if there is reason to believe that such an intervention would be contrary to the life-view of the deceased or his loved one, or any other particular reason against performing autopsy. This principle of so-called'suspected consent' is left in the law of several other countries, including the United Kingdom. in Swedish, and is also in line with the additional protocol of the Council of Europe to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedi-sin. The first question that it is natural to raise in the light of the matter raised by the representative, Sjøli, is whether there is reason to change the law at this point. The alternative to the current principle would be to introduce an explicit pre-consent principle. I have come to the conclusion that I will not recommend such a change. On the other hand, I see reason to intervene in relation to the practices of which unfortunate examples have emerged. I believe that this should be done primarily on the basis of the regulations of the law. In this context, it is important to provide written information on post-mortem access and the right of patients and their relatives to oppose autopsy. The Health Authority has stated that there is reason to take a closer look at how these information activities should be conducted. It is of great importance that information is provided in such a sensitive area in a gentle manner. Post-mortem tissues and organs are released for educational and research purposes. The starting point must be that the organs are returned after the examination. However, where this is not possible, this biological material shall be handled in an ethically sound manner. The current law on transplants and the regulations under the law are little explicit on the issue of ethical soundness and respectful treatment in the context of autopsy. In view of the circumstances that have arisen, I believe that we should modify the regulation on autopsy. I can mention that the Swedish Autopsy Act has a separate provision on respect for the deceased. National health surveillance has decided to reduce a sample to address the ethical issues of autopsy. The Committee shall review current practice and make proposals for regulatory changes. In addition to this, I can mention that the rapporteur for the treatment of Ot.prp. No 77 for 1999-2000 on changes to the transplant law has now raised legal and regulatory issues that ensure adequate information and ethically sound management of autopsy and autopsy material. I believe that there is good reason to consider this, whether or not there should be a clarification of the ethical aspects of autopsy in connection with the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e951	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. I am pleased that we have a common understanding of reality, and that there is a need to safeguard practice in this area. Now it's like, in many of the recordings that the Minister of Health made here, that's what's there today. But there's a need to strengthen this. Today's law also gives the patient or his immediate right to oppose autopsy, but it does not require active consent. I understood from the Minister of Health that he was not prepared to introduce an explicit pre-consent principle. There are examples of this not being respected, even if you have the opportunity to oppose it. I would therefore like to have a more detailed explanation as to why the Minister of Health does not want active consent to be required.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e962	These are issues that have been assessed several times in the past and also in the context of other countries' assessments of equivalent legislation and in international cooperation, as I mentioned in my first post. To a large extent, it seems to me that these assessments are based on the fact that the ethical and other aspects of demanding an explicit prior consent are as complicated as maintaining the principle of presumed consent, but of course on the assumption that there is a nominal and ethically sound information about the access to the reservation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e969	I don't feel quite sure about exactly those assessments, that it should be ethically problematic and so complicated to give an opportunity for consent before autopsy. It should be possible to be in place, I think, to show respect just for those who give notice that they themselves do not want autopsy, or that the relatives do not want it, or that they may also have entered into an agreement. Nevertheless, many people feel overwhelmed. They're being pressured. I have examples that someone has even been threatened with police report if they don't want to allow autopsy. Last night I had a phone call from an older man about exactly this. What they want is that what they want is respected. I do not feel quite sure that the practice that the Minister of Health puts forward will take care of it, so active consent is a possible solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e978	What the representative, Mr Sjøli, mentions here are examples of, if the threat of this is the closest thing, will be totally unacceptable, whether you have the current presumption principle or some other principle. It would be better to characterise it as both illegal and unacceptable. I think you can make new assessments of the question raised here, but you should be aware that such a practice, for example. will raise questions as to who is to be asked for active consent or explicit consent, whether it is to be done at all hospitalisations, or whether it is to be done in specific situations. As I said, I understand that this also leads to a good deal of practical and ethical problems. But if it is desirable, as I said, it will be an opportunity for the committee that is now dealing with the transplant law to carry out such an assessment again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e988	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘When the Pharmacy Act was being dealt with, the Right went towards obtaining concession ceilings in the cities. However, the majority supported this, and until 28 February 2001 such a concession ceiling was also included in the draft regulations of the Pharmacy Act. The Minister of Health has now lifted the concession ceiling, following an agreement with the Norwegian Medical Pot [[NMD]] Is it politically appropriate to negotiate and conclude an agreement concerning the termination of the concession ceiling with only one of the pharmacies?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e997	When examining the new Pharmacy Act, Stortinget decided, against the votes of Højres and the Advance Party, to authorise the Ministry to introduce concession ceilings for the establishment of new pharmacies "if the geographically sound distribution of pharmaceutical personnel so requires". The majority justified the need to ensure pharmacies coverage in the districts. Ceilings in key struts were considered as one of several instruments that could be used for this purpose. In preparation for the entry into force of the new Act on 1 March 2001, the Ministry prepared draft new regulations, including a regulation on concession ceilings. This was sent to the hearing on 8 December 2000, with a deadline of 19 January 2001 to deliver a hearing opinion. The views of the hearing bodies on concession ceilings varied from support to strong scepticism. The fans thought the roof was necessary to ensure the pharmaceutics coverage in the districts. Opponents doubted that a concession cap would be an effective instrument for this purpose, while pointing out that competition in the pharmacies market would be severely restricted. One of the hearing bodies, Norsk Medisinaldepot AS, offered in its hearing opinion an agreement to guarantee the pharmacy coverage in the districts as an alternative to the concession ceiling. For the sake of order, I mention that all the hearing opinions were public. I considered this an interesting alternative, and the department therefore investigated after closer contact with the company the possibility of concluding such an agreement. After clarifying these possibilities, including the aspects of competition policy in the case, an agreement was concluded on 28 February and announced by a press release on the same day. It was my opinion that due to this agreement, it would no longer be necessary to introduce concession caps upon the entry into force of the new Pharmacy Act. It was also my opinion that such an agreement would be a more targeted and effective instrument to ensure the maintenance of pharmacies in the districts than a concession ceiling in built-in districts. In this respect, I stress that the contract provides an obligation in relation to each pharmacy, including: with regard to the provision of the necessary pharmaceutical competence, whereas a concessional cap will not provide any guarantee that such competence will be channelled to those districts or pharmacies which lack such competence. In addition to being a better district policy instrument, it is my opinion that the agreement also confers advantages over a concession ceiling in terms of the objective of strengthening competition in the pharmacies market. If a concession ceiling were to be effective with a view to ensuring the maintenance of pharmacies in the districts, it would probably have to be both low and so extensive as to result in a strong restriction of competition. The key element of the agreement is that Norsk Medisinaldepot undertakes an obligation to take over and continue to operate pharmacies as other players in the market, after having been given the opportunity to assess it, will not have. In other words, there is no exclusive access for NMD to take over, but a commitment if no one else will take over. Nor is there any obstacle to the conclusion by other actors who may wish for a similar agreement. This issue has already been raised, and the ministry has made it clear that it will be such for those who want it. In my opinion, it is not in conflict with competition policy that it has been negotiated and agreed with one of the pharmacies chains. I then stress that the effect of the agreement is a freer access to pharmacies for all, and that regional policy concerns are achieved unless restrictions on competition are imposed. I also stress that the agreement does not confer any exclusive rights on one actor, and that similar agreements can be concluded with any other person who would like to do so. I add that the Competition Authority throughout this process has pointed out that a concession ceiling is not a suitable instrument for secure district pharmacists, and that it will result in a weakening of competition and loss of efficiency. The Competition Authority was kept informed of the agreement with Norsk Medisinaldepot AS. In a short time, I will present a proposal on some changes to the Pharmacy Act and the Medicines Act, and I will also inform the Stortinget more closely about the transition to the new Pharmacy Act and about the agreement between the Department and the NMD.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1016	I thank the Council of State for the answer. No one should be in any doubt that the Right is happy that there will not be any of the concession ceiling that we have been against all along. Now that I've raised this question, it's from a feeling, which I think was strengthened by the Council of State's response, that the Department has had a different treatment and a different approach to the different actors, the different chains, in the pharmacy market. There can be no doubt about, I believe, that this is not good in terms of competition and equal treatment. The important thing is that everyone is treated the same way. The Council of State just said that, after closer contact with the NMD, the Ministry investigated the possibility of concluding such an agreement. This was done without the other chains getting to know it. The other chains did not realize that there was a possibility that the concession ceiling would fall away, and that such an agreement was also possible, before it had actually been concluded and signed by one of the actors alone. My question is: does not the Council of State think that he has just explained here that he has not treated all the actors equally?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1027	No, I really don't think there's any reason to claim it. First of all, I have to say that it is wrong when it is presented in the question as if we have lifted a concession ceiling here. We have failed to make use of that authority to introduce concession ceilings as a majority in the Stortinget decided that the ministry should have. It's something else. I would also say that it is not that there was in any way a decision that the actors could base on, that there would actually be a concession ceiling, rather than say where that ceiling would apply, and what height it would have. The only difference in treatment is that the various hearing bodies have given different opinions. We have followed up the opinion of one of the Hearing Officers, which provided for the possibility of such an agreement. It required a few days of investigation before the agreement could be concluded. As soon as it was concluded, it was made public and also with the possibility of accession for all other actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1038	Of course, the Council of State is right in that there is an inaccuracy in the question of the fact that it was not decided that it should be a concession ceiling, but that it was given a warrant. I'm glad that home isn't being used, just so it's clear. I do not think the Council of State answers what I asked for, namely: Is it not true when he actually says that the department has had contact with one of the actors before it became publicly known that it was no longer the way the department publicly indicated that they wanted to do, namely to make use of the concession ceiling? When the ministry has extra good contact with NMD, which is state-owned and the chain they own, it makes the market skeptical. Would not the Council of State agree that it would be appropriate, more honest, more transparent and more transparent to have a meeting with all those involved, in order to provide the alternative that, instead of concession ceilings, there could be an agreement? Then everyone wanted to know about it at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1045	I believe that in this case we have been as open as it has been possible to be. The difference is that there was a difference in the hearing opinions and the proposals that came through them. We have not had contact with the NMD in our capacity as owner or with the Ministry of Ownership. It has been through the exercise of the mandate conferred by the new Pharmacy Act that my department has negotiated this agreement. The fact that there was an agreement was not clear until 28 February. It was not until 28 February that the agreement was cleared where it had to be cleared, that is. of the Government. As soon as that agreement was ready, but only then, it was also decided not to introduce a concession ceiling. It was immediately communicated to all actors and the public, and thereafter it has been fully open to all to conclude similar agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1055	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «In connection with the treatment of the Pharmacy Act, a unanimous committee of the Government asked for a proposal to amend Section 20 of the Medicines Act to allow a full review of the issues related to what should be considered as a medical claim in advertising in the case of herbal medicinal products. There has been more than one year since the adoption of the Pharmacy Act. When will proposals for the amendment of Section 20 of the Act on Medicinal Products be submitted?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1064	Section 20 of the Medical Products Act limits what may be permitted by medical claims in advertising for non-medicinal products. I am aware that the determination and practice of it has been controversial, and I fully understand the Committee's wish for a review of this field. When the work on such a review has not been completed, it is due to the fact that one has now given all priority to the implementation of the new Pharmacy Act. In this respect, I would like to remind you that the same committee also strongly requested the rapid entry into force of the Pharmacy Act. An overall committee stated that it ‘considers it essential for competition reasons that the law enters into force as soon as possible and that the department prioritises this regulatory work very high’. On this basis, I have found it right to give the highest priority to implementing the new Pharmacy Act. This law could not come into force until a comprehensive regulatory system was in place. This happened on March 1st, i.e. a little less than a year after the decision of the Storting. I now propose to give priority to the work of Section 20 of the Act on Medicinal Products. The Ministry is in the process of establishing a dialogue with industry and other stakeholders in order to facilitate a good review of this important field. Unless unforeseen problems arise, I aim to present the matter to Stortinget during this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1075	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As far as Section 20 is concerned, there has been a certain exchange of letters between the Council of State and me. The problem I want to go further goes on with the exemption from the law which was given to those who had received product information before 1998 and who are contrary to the guidelines laid down in new Section 20. They have therefore received a derogation until the new Section 20 is adopted. And the council writes in letters to me: ‘In conclusion, the letter asks whether the exemption scheme should be extended to actors that have arrived after 1998 and are therefore not initially covered by the exemption scheme. I see that competitive considerations can speak to equalise new and old actors, and I will therefore assess this.’ I would like to ask the Minister of Health: has this been evaluated, and is it in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1085	They've evaluated it, but I can't say that the conclusions are finally drawn, and that it's in place this way, but it could happen in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1090	I thank you for that answer and hope that that decision will come reasonably quickly. A certain time has already elapsed, and it is clear that the new players entering the same market with almost identical products are being discriminated against in relation to those already covered by the exemption scheme. The longer it goes, the worse the situation becomes for the actors this is about. I hope you'll catch up with that problem. It is also claimed from the industry that the practice of the new guidelines has become more stringent. In a letter to me, the Minister of Health rejected this after a conversation with the State Medicines Agency, now the State Medicines Agency. The question I have for the Minister of Health is this: does it not appear that the new concept now being used, that after an overall assessment has come to light, has actually led to a more stringent practice of the legislation in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1097	I have also met with the industry representative who has claimed the same thing, that it is in practice a stricter enforcement of Section 20 than it has been in the past. It's quite recently I've been made aware of that perception again, and I'm going to go through this again to make sure that that's not the case, or inculcating that that shouldn't be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1105	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘I would like to refer to more headlines in the media in the last few days in connection with the large number of suicide attempts, not least in the group of girls under 20 years of age. What new measures can be taken, or financial support, to improve prevention performance, and how can voluntary sector be used more effectively in this context?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1114	The representative Woie Duesund addresses issues related to the most difficult and tragic areas of health prevention. It is difficult to discuss these satisfactorily in a Question Time like this. The high suicide rates among girls under 20 years of age, to which the representative here points, are based on a study by the South-Tronde County. The basic number material is relatively small. We have no reason to say that the number of suicide attempts for girls at this age is particularly high across the country. It is also difficult to draw certain conclusions if there has been an increase in the incidence of suicides among children and young people. This contrasts with what might be the perception of e.g. mass media. But regardless of the size of the numbers, one suicide is too much. The government has given the State Health Authority responsibility for the follow-up to the Action Plan on Suicides, in a new project for the period 2000–2002. In the follow-up project, the prevention of suicides among children and young people is given special attention. The continuation is also justified by the need to ensure and continue the competences already built up. A national competence centre has been established in Oslo and three regional resource environments in Trondheim, Bergen and Tromsø respectively to ensure regional competence building in healthcare. The resource environments shall include, inter alia: assist municipalities in establishing preparedness for crisis management. Special action will be taken in this project against groups which are particularly vulnerable. These are elderly, lesbian and gay, children and young people as well as health professionals who come into contact with people who have attempted suicide. Through the mental health escalation plan, concrete measures will also strengthen health stations and psychosocial work among children and young people in municipalities. In this work, attention is paid to the prevention of suicide. In addition, the Government requires county councils to plan for the follow-up of people who commit suicide attempts in the context of the escalation plan. A requirement is the establishment of procedures for the registration, treatment and follow-up of people applied to somatic and psychiatric institutions. At the same time, I see that there are still many knowledge challenges in this field. These include: professionally challenging to work with prevention measures among children and young people, and we know little today about how to reach this target group. Health authorities have referred to experiences that show us that transparency and a strong focus on suicide can be self-enhancing in the case of young people. We therefore need more documented knowledge to know where and how to apply prevention measures aimed at children and young people. Therefore, concrete research projects are under way to increase awareness of the mental health of children and young people in general and to increase suicide in particular. Norway participates here, among others: in international research studies in addition to the launch of national research projects. The challenges are huge, and we need to draw on the resources we have, including volunteers and organisations. In drawing on voluntary efforts, this must be coordinated with the work done in this area by the Government. National health surveillance actively cooperates with relevant users and non-governmental organisations contributing to the enhancement of competence within and outside the health sector. I welcome the further use of the voluntary sector. Health surveillance was granted 8.7 million in 2001. kr, of which 1 million. SEK has been allocated to projects under the direction of non-governmental organisations. I have then requested that the projects be coordinated with the work of the Health Authority and be professionally satisfactory. The funds shall be directed towards actions targeted at particularly vulnerable groups, including children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1129	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. The Christian People's Party supports the measures mentioned. Sandefjords Blade points out that Vestfold tops the suicide statistics for young people under 20 years of age. The report shows that the young people are in a situation where they feel that they have few or no one to talk to. The Church's SOS has a lot of experience and recognition in helping people in a very difficult situation, through the emergency telephone service. In Vestfold, the Church’s SOS has launched a project in which they distribute schedules to all high school and high school students, with the number of the emergency telephone on. The response has been overwhelming. In meeting the political leadership of the Department, the project has been recognised. But why has the department repeatedly said no to the application from Vestfold?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1140	It is difficult for me to go directly into concrete assessments or concrete mention of individual applications from non-governmental organisations in this field. I rarely participate directly in application procedures, and am therefore not fully aware of the reasons that have been decisive in the specific case. But I know well about the telephone service that both the Church's SOS and others, among others. Mental Health Norway, is responsible for this field, and can confirm that we take a positive view of that work – without, as I said, being able to address specific application procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1145	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that it may be difficult to say something about a specific application. But I would like to remind you that the Storting has increased the contribution to emergency phones in general, as we have seen that the need is increasing, and that this is good prevention. Since the Church’s SOS in Westfold distributed schedules to 17 000 school students, compared with the previous year, they have received twice as many calls from young people who would commit suicide. This says a lot about youth in distress. This year the Church's SOS in Vestfold will also hand out e-mail addresses to young people. This, I think, is forward-looking. Many people need to speak anonymously to adults who have professional secrecy. The project in Westfold has proved to be preventive. The idea can easily be transferred to the rest of the country. Would the Minister for Health consider recommending a review of the application? A phone call can save lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1156	As I said in my first post, there is also a great deal of emphasis on preventing the type of tragic cases that we are talking about here. I don't think anything needs to be inexperienced on that occasion. In general, the Ministry has expressed a positive opinion about the type of activity to which it refers. Of course, I should like to look at the specific applications that have been made to this effect, in order to ascertain how they have been dealt with, and what reasons have been given for the conclusions that have been drawn, possibly also to reconsider them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1164	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘The media have concluded that nurses in the municipality of Tromsø believe that they are violating Norwegian law by having unskilled doctors distribute medicine to sick people. Is it so that nurses in Tromsø and other municipalities are forced to break the law, and what will the Council of State possibly do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1173	I have been in contact with the State Health Authority, who informed that the County Medical Board in Troms is planning supervision in all four home districts of Tromsø Municipality to look at the pharmaceutical management there. In addition, the municipality of Tromsø is called to a meeting on 30 March to explain the situation. I am prepared to follow up this matter. The county doctor in Troms will be contacted after the meeting with the municipality of Tromsø has been held. In addition to this, I will not comment on the matter in Tromsø now. With regard to current legislation, unskilled persons may be empowered to distribute medicinal products to patients in municipal health care. The assumption is that they have received special training and that they have been delegated to it by a doctor. The establishment and the doctor must assess whether this is appropriate. The municipality also has an obligation to establish internal control systems and to ensure that activities and services are planned, carried out and maintained in accordance with generally accepted professional standards and requirements laid down by law, regulation or administrative action. I would also like to point out that the municipality as an employer is responsible for ensuring that healthcare professionals handling medicinal products have the necessary skills and that they receive the training they need to distribute medicines. In addition to supervising, the county doctor may advise the municipalities on how to organise the work to ensure the safe management of medicinal products. I would like to mention here that the State Health Authority has received a grant from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health for the development of safer drug use, where different types of guidance will be produced and disseminated. But I also want to challenge the municipalities to continue working to ensure that the necessary training is given so that the distribution of medicine to sick people can be done in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1184	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that the Council of State has taken up this matter and will follow it up. I registered that the health manager of Tromsø in the NRK Nordnytt expressed that there is a lack of medication because there is a shortage of professionals. I think there is reason to be a little concerned about such a situation and reason to ask if this also happens in other municipalities across the country. It has also appeared in the media that in the same municipality that we are talking about here, users have expressed that in 14 days they have to relate to 17 different people from home service, and that there have been students in both law and fisheries who have provided these services. There must be grounds for asking whether this is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1193	I can assure the representative that I am going to follow up that both medications and other services are to be distributed properly. I share the representative's concern about the many different helpers that each recipient has to deal with. Very many people have talked to me about it, and together with the municipalities, we probably have to take a vow here to get to another kind of organization. As for the background that people are going to provide services, we are well pleased that there is a wide range of people who want to make an effort in the care services. What we have to be careful is that they can do what they're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1205	I have also registered that the head of the patient representatives in Norway is concerned about the safety of patients. He believes that the county games in general are too defensive in relation to this. I record that in this case the council had to go to the county doctor and asked him to do a job that it would be natural for him to do. But I'm glad that the Council of State has taken this up, because now you have to make sure both for the user himself and not least for the relatives who may fear this situation. I hope that the improvements and measures outlined by the social minister here are well known, so that people can now be sure that this is in the best hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1214	The government is in the process of significantly renewing the public sector, including the way in which the services provided to people who are unable to take care of their best interests are supervised. The county doctor’s services are also included in this, so that there will be a more streamlined supervision service gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1222	I shall ask the Minister of Social Affairs the following questions: ‘A man who is paralyzed from the point of view of life has received a refusal to apply for battery cover on his platform hoist, which runs from the cabin to the office on the second floor. The reason for the refusal is that battery backup for wheelchair hoists is not necessary in the sense of the Law on Social Security in order to improve the functioning of daily life. Does the Council of State agree with this justification for the refusal, and what about the functionality and safety of power failure and any fire?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1231	When a person has had his or her daily function significantly and permanently reduced because of illness, injury or hearing, a social benefit is provided in the form of loans for technical assistance. The benefit is provided in the context of measures that are necessary and appropriate to improve the functioning of the member in everyday life or to allow the member to be cared for at home. Social security provides support for five types of platform lift. Lift platform with shaft, platform without shaft, lift for wheelchairs, lift with seat and lift for standing persons. When the Rikstrøgdeverket sells lifts, this is done according to the Nordic standard. This means that all lifts have an emergency stop and emergency sink that can be operated either by the user himself or by a helper. If the current goes while a platform lift without backup is in use, users will be stuck in the elevator. To get the user out, a third person must move the platform lift to the exit deck. The community health service is responsible for having emergency plans for disabled users who, in the event of a fire or similar, will not be able to get out of the dwelling on their own. Many of these users also have a social alarm. Users who have received support to a lifting platform without a shaft may trigger the safety alarm. If the safety alarm is triggered, the municipal rescue contingency plan shall enter into force. This contingency plan shall be such that assistance from the municipality or others who have assumed responsibility for the user can be quickly received. According to the Rikstrøgdeverket’s practice, public support for battery backup is not provided by the public because the safety aspect must be ensured through the lift’s emergency sinking mechanism and the emergency plan in the municipality. But these battery backups are a newer form of security, and I'd like to take up with the Rikstrygdeverket whether we should change this practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1244	I thank the Minister for the answer. I personally do not understand that the Rikstrøgdeverket has refused to pay the battery backup to the current user, when I am at the same time informed that other similar patients have been covered with battery backup, but they live in other counties and other municipalities. In a letter dated 6 March, the Fire Department of the Mandals region states: ‘If the power disappears in the course of a fire, and the user is at home alone, he is out of his way if he is on another floor.’ — Further, the Fire Department says: ‘We therefore find it strange that there is no regulatory requirement that wheelchair lifts for floors without another usable escape route should have battery backup.’ Should not the quoted statements of the Fire Department be a sufficient argument for the Minister of Social Affairs to instruct the National Agency to provide this patient with battery backup that other similar patients receive?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1260	This matter was new to me until I received a letter from the Norwegian Handicap Association dated 19 March. I am already looking at this matter, both its real content and how we can take it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1265	I thank you again for the answer, and I am glad that something is going on. In order to justify the refusal of battery backup from the county ironing office, the following is quoted: ‘The aid centre understands that it is appropriate to have a battery backup for a wheelchair lift. However, we do not consider battery backup for wheelchair hoists to be necessary in the sense of the People's Security Act in order to improve the functioning of daily life." Then my question to the Minister for Social Affairs is: Does the Minister for Social Affairs really agree that it does not have to do with the functioning of the applicant in question, that you get battery backup?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1277	I agree that a battery backup will serve as a day-to-day security for those involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1285	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The Road Directorate has drawn up a proposal for an action programme for the Road Administration of the State for the period 2002-2011 to be based on St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000 and national transport plan. To what extent has the Directorate-General for Road followed up the decisions and majority comments made in the national transport plan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1294	The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Fisheries issued guidelines on the work of the agencies on their respective action programmes for the period 2002-2011 last October. In addition, additional guidance was provided for work in February of this year. These additional leaders have been given precisely in the light of the suspension of the Committee on Transport and the examination by the Storting of the National Transport Plan Report on 15 February of this year. The Directorate-General for Roads has drawn up proposals for action programmes for the route investment on the main road network, while the Road Offices are responsible for developing action programmes for the other activities in the county. The draft action programme of the Etas shall be submitted to the county council for its opinion and the deadline for the county council to be set at 20 June 2001. On the basis of this treatment, the State Road Service will establish the final action programme for the floors for the planning period. The size will be briefed on how the broad lines of the recommended strategy have been followed up in the Eta programme and on the up-to-date impact of the 2002 budget proposal. I assume that the state road system in its work on the action programmes follows up the majority of comments on the treatment of the national transport plan. This relationship is also referred to in the supplementary guidelines of the departments. The action programmes will be the basis for the follow-up through the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1310	I am very pleased with the answer given, but I have an additional question to the Council of State. In setting up a national transport plan, the Committee has given particular attention to the accident-related sections. To what extent will the Council of State and the Directorate of Roads take into account the fact that some roads have been channelled much more traffic, thereby increasing the risk of accidents and more accidents? After the consultation rounds are over, will the Council of State also pay great attention to these accident-related sections?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1315	It will be known to the representative of Nistad that safety is one of the main features of the national transport plan and that the transport plan is based on zero vision – that there will be no accidents with fatal or severe damage. And just to get in the direction of this vision, it's essential that the investments we're going to make have as their main objective the prevention of accidents. As a general guide to the work of action programmes, it is therefore necessary to aim at investments which have an accident-reducing effect. And I take it for granted that there is also a basis for the work both in the Road Directorate and in the individual counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1320	I thank the Council of State for the good answer, especially because he wants to focus on preventing accidents and reducing the number of sections with special accident risks. In the setting of the National Transport Plan, a unanimous committee said that the whole of E16 would be upgraded in Uppland and Sogn and Fjordane, and in particular that the route from Steinklepp in Sogn and Fjordane to Eye in Valdres should be given priority. In the consultation note that has now come from the Directorate of Road, there is a provision for money from Steinklepp to the Cross Borlaug in Sogn and Fjordane, but there is nothing for the journey from Borlaug in Sogn and Fjordane to Eye in Valdres. A map developed by Vegvesenet and Viking Rescue Service shows that the accidents – after the Laerdal Tunnel opened – have increased traffic there by 100 pst. They're in Valdres. Will the Council of State focus on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1327	It is true that the setting of the national transport plan focused on the route E16 in Oppland and Sogn and Fjordane, and in particular on the mountain section Steinklepp–Øye. The Committee then asked for a plan to upgrade that route, and I take it completely for granted that the Road Directorate will comply, so as to give priority to returning proposals for remedial measures in accordance with the plan. Then I take it as a matter of fact that we're just going to use the idea of eliminating the specific accident-related points.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1335	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The Task Distribution Committee has proposed to transfer a number of tasks, including in the field of transport, from government offices to state-owned governance in the counties. At the same time, there are plans for large-scale bundling of road offices, which are currently the state's competence environments in the planning of new transport projects. Do the Council of State agree that such depopulation of areas of competence from District Norway is incompatible with a reform that decentralises overall responsibility for transport policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1344	In a short time, the government will present a major communication on the division of tasks at regional level. Here, the Government will, among other things, make concrete proposals on the allocation of tasks related to the transport sector. The task-sharing committee, which presented its study in the summer of 2000, recommends a population-selected regional level of 10 to 15 units. In addition, the sample is recommended, for example: adding public responsibility for regional land and sea-based transport to the popular regional level and adding responsibility for the county road offices to the regions. Regardless of this, extensive conversion and efficiency work has been started in the state road system. The Road Directorate has concluded that there will be a more effective road system through a change in the organisation of the station with 5 to 8 regional road offices, and a greater number of local units that are more decentralised than current road offices. One consequence of this is that the share of administrative costs in road appropriations is reduced, and that service production and, consequently, the environments of competence and planning are strengthened. Reorganisation to fewer road offices will allow functions currently in the Road Directorate to be moved to these units. Consideration shall be given to the tasks and, as a result, the competence and capacity which may be added to regional offices and premises. The government's final proposals for the follow-up to the Task Distribution Committee will be promoted in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1355	I thank you for your answer. My claim is that Coast Norway, and most notably More and Romesdal, need offensive and innovative transport policies, not least in view of the value creation growth associated with aquaculture and marine industries. There are many examples from my county that local creativity, good spirit and spice layers, together with proximity to a regional road office, have led to road projects finding solutions that would otherwise have been far ahead in time. Does the Council agree that the proximity of the road office in a value-creating group with an active and growing business life is important and that local/regional creative road solutions will easily be lost in a more bureaucratic, centralised road system?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1362	I fully agree with the representative of Kongshaug that significant consideration must be given to value creation, not least in District Norway, in terms of both investment and other transport policies in the future. And we need to set up environments of competence in the Road Administration in such a way that we can take care of both regional and local creativity. However, I must be allowed to point out that reducing the number of road offices has also been assessed in the national transport plan, and in the setting ended, among other things. Left to the Government’s assessment that it is important and proper to review the structure with a view to improving cost-effectiveness. On the part of the Government, it is obvious that we need to organise a policy in which we primarily take account of the users in the transport sector in the high-seas.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1369	I agree with the Council of State that rationalisation is important, but rationalisation does not always have to be centralisation. In More and Romesdal, it is well known that there has been good and fruitful cooperation between the Road Office and the College, which has courses of study in transport and logistics. In my opinion, this well-established cooperation will weaken, with a total loss of regional competence as a result. Does not the Council of State see the possibility of transferring, instead of losing regional competence, tasks from the Directorate of Roads to the regional road offices — which he had in his reply — the road offices and their competence to the county council as a natural and good alternative?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1376	We want to carry out tasks both to regional units and to local units, just to improve the use of resources and to improve the relationship with regional and local units. The decentralisation of competences environments in Norway will also have the effect, as the technological situation allows. So it's not right to view this as a detachment of competence in District Norway. Overall, I'm reasonably sure that the result will be the opposite. As far as the question of how to organise regional units and thus the responsibility of regional units is concerned, as I said in my main reply, we will come back to this in a short time when we present a regional impact report.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1386	This question, from the representative Sverre J. Hoddevik to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1389	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Transport within the Ministry for Fisheries: ‘It is now known that the Ministry of Fisheries, in cooperation with the county councils concerned, has carried out a comprehensive pre-project for the City of Skipstunnel, as requested by the Stortinget. Can the Council of State confirm that the Storting will be brought before it in the current session, as previously stated by the Council of State?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1398	During Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 34 for 1997-98, On the implementation of a ship tunnel pilot project through the State, it was concluded that a better basis had to be developed before a decision could be taken on the possible construction of such a tunnel. In the past, a number of partial investigations were carried out for some topics, but the available material had not been fully evaluated. The pilot project, carried out in cooperation with Sogn and Fjordane and Møre and Romsdal County municipalities, has reviewed the existing material on such a tunnel and has carried out new assessments where necessary. The project includes, among other things: sets out the technical, geological, safety and environmental aspects. In the light of the results of the pilot project and in line with the provisions of the Planning and Building Act on Impact Assessment, the Swedish Coastal Agency has drawn up an impact assessment on the action. This has now been sent to the hearing, with a deadline of 28 May 2001. Following the hearing, the Coastal Directorate shall decide, in the light of the impact assessment and the consultation opinions, whether the obligation to investigate has been fulfilled or whether additional investigations are necessary. Thus, it is only through the impact assessment and its consultation that there is evidence that the impact of the action on the environment, natural resources and society has been preserved. Prior to having this information, the full basis for deciding on and, where appropriate, the conditions under which the action may be implemented will not be available. During the debate on the National Transport Plan in Stortinget on 15 February, the Minister for Fisheries stated that he would return to the possible development of the City Ship Tunnel during the spring. The provisions of the Planning and Building Act require an impact assessment, which has now been drawn up and sent to the hearing. I therefore find it difficult to see that it is possible to present this matter in the current session. The government will present the matter to the Storting in an appropriate manner when the result of the impact assessment and its treatment is obtained.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1415	It is true that the Planning and Building Act cannot of course be set aside, but it is tempting to ask the Council of State whether the Government is aware that there are already approved regulatory plans for the felling on both sides of the City and that the county has so far expressed its opinion on the environmental aspects of these plans and has concluded that for the construction period as well as for the operating period, the City Ship Tunnel is unproblematic from an environmental point of view. Now it's 8 million. kr from the department and county council, and in the past private interests have spent a few million kroner. The question is: What hearing bodies can be expected to have surprising and ground-breaking comments that may rock the principal in this matter, in the light of the investigations carried out over ten years?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1420	As regards the planning status of the site, it was included in the development of the project. It is also the case that the representative states that the Planning and Building Act must, of course, be complied with. It will be to hope that the pre-project and processed otherwise in this case is so solid and good that one can see that the obligation to investigate is met when we get so far, and that we are also in the situation that we do not get comments that lead to further extension of the time needed before a proposal can be made to the Stortinget. But we will not be able to have a final answer to that before the deadline for the hearing ends on 28 May this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1425	It may be that the government's treatment of this matter by many is perceived as a kind of training. In fact, the Council of State can share responsibility with Bondevik, who spent a year in government without dealing with the matter. The last time the Workers' Party tried to conclude, the answer was negative. It was in Secretary of Fisheries Jan Henry T. Olsen's time. Does the Council of State realize the frustration of entering a new four-year period without a fundamental clarification, after such a long procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1432	As regards the main report on the pre-project on the Stad Sønder tunnel, it is dated March 2001. In view of the recent arrival of this pre-project at the Ministry of Fisheries' house, a progress plan has been established in relation to consultations which are as rapid as possible at the moment. What is going to be this government's plan for further treatment is to keep a high pace for the reason that the representative here says that there have been partial investigations over many years. Now you get an overall assessment and an investigation that provides the basis for a final proposal for the Storting, which the Government will come back to as quickly as it can be done, and then in a suitable way, as I said in my main response.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1440	«Last year's biggest bid was made for proposals for the creation of Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund in its own proposal during the autumn of 2000. This did not happen. It is also not clear when the proposition is presented. Thus, there is a significant delay in relation to the Storting assumption. When does the proposition propose the creation of a cultural memory fund?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1447	Over the last few years, more and more attention has been paid to our cultural memories and the way we manage them. As knowledge, overview and evidence in the field have improved, it has been recognised that efforts need to be stepped up. Several key policy documents in this area express ambitious objectives for cultural memory management and contain a number of proposals for increased efforts. The size has proposed a number of concrete actions, such as the creation of a public body to explore cultural memory objectives and instruments and a separate cultural memory escalation plan. Furthermore, the Stortinget has asked for concrete proposals to be made for improved support schemes and other incentives to ensure protection and restoration, and finally for the Government to promote proposals for the creation of Norwegian cultural memory funds in its own initiative in the autumn of 2000. I am pleased with the Storting's commitment to the preservation of cultural memories and environments. I would like to stress that, in my opinion, Stortinget's proposal is closely linked, and that their follow-up must therefore be seen in the context. The measures also concern a very central point in the mandate given to the Cultural Memory Committee, which shall examine in particular the relationship with private owners and economic instruments. I'm now working on a follow-up to the different size decisions. To solve the major challenges we face in cultural memory management, I think it is necessary to create a gap between public and business. We're now evaluating different models to get this done. I have received interesting input from non-governmental organisations, which I also look at in the work on following up on the Storting proposal. In addition, we are examining similar schemes in other countries. The Government is in the process of following up on the request to draw up a plan of escalation. With regard to progress in the work, I recall that the Government in the draft budget for the year – 2001 – said it would come back in the 2002 budget with concrete proposals to strengthen cultural memory protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1460	I thank you for an answer that is marked by an engagement in the cultural memory work that I share, and that it is important to follow up in an interaction between greatness and government. The decision taken last year in Stortinget on the Cultural Memory Fund is a clear priority, and it shows that a person wants to get ahead of this work. I am familiar with the review in the budget of the progress of the work on the cultural memory fund, and I noticed that, among other things. stood a possible cultural memory fund. I assume it's a formulation that can now be replaced by the fact that it's perfectly clear that it's going to be a cultural memory fund. Then, in the context of the budget, there will be proposals for a tightening-up plan and other support schemes. But at the same time as the budget for the harvest, will it be a complete arrangement for the cultural memory fund, so that it can be established and become concrete as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1475	I am working on a follow-up to all these proposals, and the budget for the next year will at least be an important document on where the follow-up will take place. The most important thing for me as regards the follow-up to the proposal on cultural memory funds is to look at how we can best organise ourselves to secure the intention – which I have clearly understood the Stortinget has – of more resources for cultural memory work in the future, so that the way we organize ourselves will help us in the private sector to trigger even more resources for cultural memory work, in addition to the fact that the state takes its share of responsibility and steps up its own resource use.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1482	It's a huge amount of work, and it's important that it's done thoroughly and really. But I think that the Stortinget is expecting that, most recently, in the context of the budget, there will be a scheme for setting up a cultural memory fund. The Committee, including the members of the Labour Party, underlined this need as it decided last autumn to ask for a readmission. One year's deferral is a great deal, and it is clear that if it is not specifically indicated in the harvest when such a fund can be established, it is disappointing and too weak in relation to the level of ambition set by the Stortinget. My clear request to the Council of State is that, at the same time as a stepping-up plan on support for cultural memory work, a scheme for setting up such a fund will be put in place – and possibly further develop it with additional elements in place afterwards. But it has to get going, and I hope this can happen in the context of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1489	I take note of the views of Kvassheim. I see them very clearly and can confirm that I am working on follow-up on all of these points. I will present this to the Storting in the best possible way as soon as possible, so that the proposals can be seen in full, and so that we can get an organisation that will provide us with a strengthening in the future, and that is at the same time a follow-up to the Storting proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1498	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The use of snowmobiles, or illegal motorcycling, is presented by some of the State’s natural resources as being a very big problem. Does the Council of State share this impression and are there plans to intensify supervision in selected areas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1507	The snowmobile has its legitimate use functions recognised by law and regulation. It is when the snowmobile is used for purposes outside the scope permitted by law and regulation that the use is a problem. Of course, the authorities responsible for ensuring compliance with the applicable laws and regulations must also consider the extent and manner in which the supervision is to be carried out. This will be a balance, for example: between the size of the problem and the resources over which it is generated. The State's natural resources are also responsible for the supervision of motor traffic laws. In line with the general policy of the State's NS, there is a great deal of emphasis on informing about the legislation in force. In several areas of the country, therefore, the State’s nature oversight has helped to develop information brochures in order to clarify the legislation for users. The State’s nature oversight team closely cooperates with the police in the motor vehicle traffic oversight activities. The need for enhanced supervision is assessed, inter alia: as a result of reporting illegal motor traffic. Planning such supervision is operational and is not presented to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1518	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State is in a way defining today's legislation, but I am fully in agreement with it. The reason why I ask the question is a reference in Namdals-Avisa – this concerns the Namdalen area – to two young people who used snowmobiles to go fishing. They were fined 7 000 kroner each for the illegal motor vehicle. Of course, there's a paradox about getting 500 kroner in fines to stand on the corner and sell drugs, but I'm not going to follow them up. So in this context, the information counsellor at the State Department of Nature in Trondheim says that Namdalen is a loaded area in terms of illegal motor travel, and that now when it comes to Easter, they may see it as necessary to use helicopters to monitor the area. My question to the Council of State is then: Is it correct that the use of helicopters should be considered to monitor any illegal motor traffic with snowmobiles in Namdalen?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1529	The State’s nature oversight has a broad responsibility. They work within budgetary frameworks that have to be worked hard to comply with, as many have to, and I trust that they will carry out their tasks in a good way. It is the case that the State’s nature oversight cooperates with the police on illegal behaviour also related to the use of snowmobiles in cases where this occurs and the way in which the work is carried out in order to overcome this situation becomes an assessment on a case-by-case basis. But I trust that this is done in a reasonable way and based on what is needed locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1534	I thank you again for the answer. I record that the Council of State sees it as taking into account the environment by using helicopters, with the noise and pollution it must involve, instead of using skis and snowmobiles to possibly ensure monitoring. It's a little bit surprising. In this connection, there was also a public meeting in the area in question yesterday, and it emerged from Secretary of State Stein Lier-Hansen that a new regulation is being worked on in relation to the use of snowmobiles. This gives the impression that the law is to be embellished, so that the local maritime council will once again be brought into the municipalities, and perhaps in line with document No. The 8th proposal that the Progress Party had voted down two years ago. My question is: Is it right that such a regulation is being processed and that it would lead, if necessary, to an embellishment towards the desire of the Party of Advancement for local right of access and that motor travel in areas where it is permitted on bareland should also be permitted in winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1541	Since the examination of document No. The 8 proposal has been followed up by the Government. I can confirm that we are working on a follow-up to that decision. The direction to be followed is that there should be a greater local responsibility for the enforcement of the laws in force in this area. We have also launched a very specific experiment with a number of municipalities, where this is tested in practice in a slightly different way. This experiment will last for several years, but we aim to have rules and guidelines clear so that regulations can be changed from the next season.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1549	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘In the localities of Hedmark, it is now announced that the State wishes to offer hunting rights holders an agreement to rent their hunting grounds in wolf areas. In what areas will it be appropriate to buy out the hunting rights in this way, and what is the allocation used for this lease payment? ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1558	The Ministry of the Environment is dealing with three different conflict areas in relation to the management of wolves in Norway. It concerns the traditional conflicts with bofe and tamrein on grazing, the relationship with people's fear of large predators, and the relationship with lost hunting incomes for hunters. The assumption here is that, as a result of wolves in an area, it will no longer be possible for the hunting rightholder to rent out hunting grounds. In order to reduce conflicts with hunting rightholders, the Ministry of the Environment, in cooperation with relevant organisations such as Norskog, the Forests Association and WWF, has investigated the possibility of setting up a testing scheme in which the State offers to rent hunting rights in reviral areas for family groups of wolves. As a basis for such a testing scheme, the environmental management has now, in cooperation with Norskog, sent out an advertisement. The first objective is to identify the interest in the scheme among hunting rights holders who are currently directly affected by the reviral areas of the wolf family groups in Norway. In the light of feedback from game owners, the Ministry will return to the Stortinget with proposals for further work on this and funding the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1567	I thank the Council of State for the answer. However, I find it a bit alarming that from the state side you now go through at least one of the landowners' organisations and announce that you are going to buy out the hunting rights, for example. in areas which are not at all relevant to the wolf zoning plan. The Minister of Environmental Protection now also said that it concerned ‘reviral areas for family groups of wolves’. This means that it is also believed that this should apply, for example. municipalities such as Stor-Elvdal and Rendalen in Hedmark, where the zoning plan for wolves has never been applicable according to the official documents that have come out in this context? I also want to ask the Council of State – I got no answer to it – what means you want to use for this, what kind of appropriations you have for this lease.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1574	We will come back to proposals for a concrete design of such a scheme if we find that there will be an appropriate way of resolving the conflicts that arise in some areas in relation to the relationship between hunting areas and areas of wolf establishment. The specific areas in which it will be most relevant to enter, we will assess, among other things. In the light of that interest, we focus primarily on those areas where there is wolf establishment in Norway. With regard to the economic basis for this, we will first assess what kind of costs this will have, and we will later come back to proposals on how this will be done in relation to appropriations, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1581	I find it a bit alarming that it is said that one should do this where there is wolf establishment. It must mean that the Government does not have any plans to move the wolf to the areas which may be zoning areas for the wolf in the opinion of the majority of the population and in the opinion of the Ministry. I'm very concerned about that. So I have more questions for this. For example, other losses of income related to hunting and land management will also be considered as replacements? Is it not worrying that local administrative law will now be taken over by these organisations and the state? A third question: Isn't it that if you divide hunting rights and ownership for too long over time, you don't have hunting rights as the landowner anymore? And my last question: is it also considered to do the same in the case of grazing rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1588	Firstly, I would like to make it very clear with regard to the management areas of the wolf, that the Government has established them on the basis of the debate and the decisions taken in the Stortningen on predatory policies a few weeks ago, and we will follow up the limits that have now been set. These include: the reason for which wolves are now being killed in some of the areas outside the wolf management area. With regard to the system of possible State rental of hunting rights, I would like to emphasise once again that we are assessing and investigating the possibilities for a trial scheme, and that we will return to the concrete scope and concrete principles of this, including several of the challenges that the representative addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1596	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘The daily newspaper on 19 March 2001 refers to a family who have to live one night on one farm and the next night on another farm. The reason is the interpretation of rigid rules for the calculation of production aid. The agricultural authorities of Time Municipality seem to apply sound farmland legislation, while at county level they seem to follow the government's regulations to point and point. Will the Council of State intervene and arrange for regulatory changes, so that this and similar cases do not have a tragic outcome?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1605	The structure of production grants makes it more profitable to receive an estimate of grants for more separate holdings than for one overall holding. Minor units receive compensation for having higher operating costs than larger units with economies of scale. Therefore, it would not be reasonable to pay two sets of grants to users who actually have an operating community, because there are no such small scale disadvantages as the differentiated grant rates aim to balance. Common residence is a strong indicator of a single holding holding. Because it is easy to practice and predictable for each individual, it was decided to introduce the rule that a common residence initially entails a single grant. After a specific assessment, a derogation from this residence rule may be granted so that users can nevertheless be awarded separate grants in the absence of an operating community between them. This ensures that the rule does not affect cases which it is not intended to cover. As far as I understand, in this particular case, the family moves not to be counted as resident on the same agricultural property as another user. I would like to stress that no one in the agricultural management, as far as I know, has asked them to move, and that the decisive thing when users live on the same property is whether there is actually an operating community. The specific complaint is now under consideration in the State Agriculture Administration, and I therefore do not think it appropriate to go into it further now. However, I am aware of the regulatory issues in this area. A review of the conditions under which production grants may be received, including the common residence rule, is currently under way. Proposals for changes are expected to be sent to the summer consultation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1616	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and at least there's a review going on in the ministry to look at this. Throughout agricultural management and throughout agricultural policy there are 120-130 grant schemes, and it is clear that people are complying with the schemes that are in place. As the council says, they haven't been asked to move, but it's clear that people make pro forma arrangements with a little hive in some corner of a house to get a production grant. Much of the subsidies in Norwegian agriculture are based on schemes that are not necessarily socio-economically sensible, but are organised accordingly. If it's allowed, President, to call it molbo politics or not, I don't know, but that it is, there can't be any doubt about it. But the question is, how far is the Council of State willing to go in change of rules to really bring this to life? Can he estimate how many subsidy schemes we really need in Norwegian agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1621	First of all, this particular rule. As far as I know, it has existed since 1980, and in that way Gabrielsen's own party has administered this so-called Molbo policy from the Ministry of Agriculture. Of course, I am not willing to address those types of characteristics, but it is clear that the problem here is that there are large economic benefits associated with having as many holdings as possible, and I believe that a flare of structural products in general in agriculture can bring in much more healthy farming practices. I think that's a very important contribution. Furthermore, we are now in the process of reviewing the whole system of subsidies in agricultural policy. How many grants we'll eventually end up with, it's way too early to go into, but that we're going in the direction of significantly fewer schemes, there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1626	I understand that the Council of State cannot give an exact answer to the specific matter. But as it is produced in the newspaper, as it is produced in the letter sent from the county council in Rogaland to the State Agriculture Administration on 19 March, and as it is produced in all the documentation that has followed this case, it is quite clear that no one can be expected that we have arrangements that require a family to establish such a satellite, by the fact that every other night they will be on a shelf on a farm to maintain two production grants. In the specific appeal, I see that the Council of State cannot answer. But will the Council of State say that after such a review as the Ministry now has, it is more likely that we will avoid this problem than before that review?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1631	With regard to the specific case, it is essential, according to current legislation, whether those who have their dwelling on this farm are involved in the operation of the farm where they live. So it's not the place of residence itself, but whether you're involved in the operation where you live. And that's what the State's agricultural administration is now assessing, based on the legislation that you have today. With regard to the last part of the question from the representative Gabrielsen, I think we are facing quite major changes in this area. On the one hand, the kind of issues that the questioner raises here, the other is the development towards the formation of companies, etc., which comes in as drivers of agricultural property, and which is a sign of the time the administration has to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1641	This question, from the representative Einar Steensnæs to the Minister for Agriculture, will be raised by the representative Olaf Gedrem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1644	‘In the regulation of the milk quota scheme, there is a condition for merging the milk quotas by merging the use of applying limits into each other with an inset. A strict practice of this rule may be closed for desired rationalization. Will the Council of State take the initiative to allow the merging of allowances for uses that are merged, even if they do not limit each other?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1651	As far as the milk quota system is concerned, I have already taken an initiative to assess the legislation of the scheme. The question of how to achieve increased flexibility in the quota system is now being addressed. This includes an assessment of the requirement for the single limit in the inland area in order to combine allowances when used together. Changes to the requirement of a common inland border had already been discussed with the agricultural organisations in the context of the discussions on what is known as the 2001 quota legislation. The record of these quota discussions on 8 December 2000 states: ‘However, the Ministry of Agriculture and both agricultural organisations agreed that questions relating to changes in the terms of aggregation of quotas in the event of acquisition of use [[§ 16]] This means that proposals for changes to the quota system in the areas referred to here will therefore be submitted in connection with the agricultural situation this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1663	I thank the Minister of Agriculture for a positive answer. I think both of us understand that one of them, when it comes to marriage, finds it natural to combine use. And then it's a little bit artificial to experience that it's not possible to process the milk quota at the same time as this aggregation. Not so often, it's a big and a small use, so you get a pure rationalization. In addition, the effect is that the state saves a production supplement. So from my point of view, this must be said to be a good rationalization. Therefore, I also find that the rule that now applies in Section 16 is somewhat narrow and difficult to practice. So I just want to hear if the Minister of Agriculture is positive about changing the rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1670	I think I can express a clearly positive attitude to that. I think the general situation is that we need much more flexibility into the quota system. Today, the only possibility for dairy farmers to enter into co-operation is actually the option. Many of the cooperatives are sensible and well-founded, but I also think that many of these come into place because it's the only flexibility that lies in the system when it comes to dealing with the milk quota system. In my view, the fact that we are now going through the whole quota system with a view to increasing flexibility in addition to co-operation is right and sensible. And the example that the questioner uses to illustrate that need, I think is good. My basic attitude to rule changes in line with what the queryer is addressing is, as I said, fundamentally positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1675	I thank the Minister of Agriculture for a positive attitude to the problem. I would also like to mention that in my county, Rogaland, there is actually a lot of use where it might be useful to use a new banner relatively soon, because one then freer can usually dispose of the large housing stock on two uses that are driven into layers, but carried on as two own uses. So I want to ask the Minister of Agriculture about any change in this scheme and these regulations can be applied from 1 July, so that the changes one wishes can be implemented relatively quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1682	Yes, it will certainly be my intention that they can be asserted from 1 July this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1690	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister of Justice: ‘The development of the Internet, mobile telephony and the integration of these technologies raise a number of important issues related to privacy, trade and legitimate police interests. Encryption and access to encryption keys are examples of this. What is the Government’s strategy for meeting these difficult balances, and when will the Storting get presented with a complete case on such fundamental issues related to the use of the new information technology?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1699	The question refers, as I read it, to the responsibilities of many departments. But since the question was asked to me, I am in consultation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, which has a primary responsibility in this area, to give an overall answer. The government wants to promote the use of information and communication technologies across society and works through eNorway, the broadband action plan and sectoral plans to achieve this. The Government also recognises that a number of current framework conditions need to be adapted to technological developments. This is why different departments work with, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t removal of regulatory barriers to electronic commerce, coordinated by the Ministry of Industry and Trade regulatory development in the field of telecommunications and broadcasting, under the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Culture Regulation of the Act on Electronic Signature under the Ministry of Industry and Trade examining the use of digital electronic signatures in and with the administration under the Ministry of Labour and Administration establishing systems for the certification of IT security in organisations, under the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and products and systems, under the Ministry of Defence; These cases will be submitted to the Stortinget either as own cases, or they will be reported in the departmental budget proposals. Let me highlight in particular the work the Government has started under the direction of the Ministry of Labour and Administration for a 24-hour administration. This work, which is part of the Public Sector Renewal Programme, aims to provide users with easier and faster access to public services through electronic channels. This requires the development and establishment of the necessary security in communication for users to have confidence in the systems, including: the protection of privacy. The government has also started work on establishing an overall policy for the use of encryption in Norway. In this work, a number of considerations need to be made, such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t the need for and use of safe communication by individuals, businesses and authorities in order to promote the fight against crime in Norway's position in international cooperation, inter alia. on the export control of crypto products how national interests, e.g. related to trade, sovereignty control, publicity and security policy A group of experts has been set up to participate in this work from seven departments and the Defence Security Service. Work has focused on contacting Sweden, Denmark and England. The government will consider how the Stortinget can best be briefed on these issues when the report from the group is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1745	I'm familiar with the first part of the answer that the Council of State came up with in the field of IT technology, and it seems logical to me that it belongs. But that's the last part of the answer that's rightfully my focus. I think it is good that a separate working group has been set up with representatives from seven departments. I would encourage this report to be presented to the Stortinget for a broad discussion, because the principle balance in terms of encryption in relation to privacy, security of electronic commerce and police investigation will raise a number of legal fundamental issues that I believe fit for a proper debate in the Stortinget. I myself believe that this belongs as naturally here as that one in his time, for example. discussed new research methods, but which relate to part of the area we are now discussing. So I want to encourage the Council of State to let Stortingen get this as a broad and collective matter. I think that's the right way to deal with such important questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1752	I have no immediate objection to the request from the representative of Dørum. Depending on how this work comes out from the expert group, it is heard to the extent that this concerns new considerations and the establishment of new policies in Norway that it belongs in some form also in the Stortinget. Anyway, of course, if the Storting expresses a desire to treat it, they get it. But the government has not yet taken a decision on how we follow up the group's report, among other things. because the report of the group is not yet available.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1757	I note that the Council of State has an open position, and that is very positive. I wish, on behalf of the Left, that the Storting should deal with this matter. The alternative is that individual cases can be dealt with by the Data Protection Authority, and it can be presented through individual cases, for example. by Ecocrim, and then you never get the balance to be made as a whole. This is done in a case in which this is weighed. I just want to say that the Left for its part at least wants this case to come to Stortinget when the job is done, because it is best to be leading was on these questions instead of coming afterwards and improvising the policy. It is an important balance to be made with regard to privacy, to which Norway has a tradition, and which we have secured again with regard to data protection and our own legislation. Norway has also done a good job in electronic commerce, which should have its own security, including: against hackers, and then the police must have legitimate interests. Governments themselves opened a conference on cybercrime and crime online. So I think getting your own case is the best way to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1762	I take no further notice of the invitation from the representative Dørum and can at least agree on a general basis with the representative Dørum that difficult questions of principle can often be appropriate for a general discussion and not just solved through individual cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1770	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘The State Council may clarify who, following the new working time agreement for teachers, is entitled to dispose of the hours of instruction which fall away from other activities, such as: the employer is able to use these hours to reduce overtime, and when these hours are used in learning centres where there is no preparation or evaluation afterwards, is then one working hour in that context 45 minutes or 1 hour and 50 minutes?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1777	The parties to the school system have been working for several years to simplify the contract work for teaching staff. The regulatory framework is still relatively complex. The question from the representative Höie addresses the technical details of the contract work, so I regret that the answer also needs to be quite technical. In the working time contract concluded with effect from 1 August 2000, the teaching step metal of teachers is given as an annual framework and a weekly average reading obligation. The annual framework is the starting point for the number of teaching hours to be carried out by teachers in a school year. Thus, the working time contract has become more flexible than it was in the past. The agreement requires the development of individual work plans for the individual teacher. These plans, which contain those parts of the annual work in which teachers are to be present at school, provide for the possibility of varying the amount of teaching provided by teachers from week to week within the school year and are to be set in such a way that the annual framework for teaching by teachers is filled. This means that, among other things: examination, professional practice and sports days are incorporated individually in the work plans as part of normal working hours. Work plans may be amended with two weeks' notice unless shorter deadlines are agreed at school. The work plans are set out in the context of a dialogue between the employer and the employee, but it is now the former employer who has the right to govern. Overtime occurs when individual teachers, in agreement with the school management, undertake work in addition to normal working hours. If teaching hours are used for educational work other than education, such hours correspond to 90 minutes in childhood, 100 minutes in childhood and 110 minutes in secondary school. For the teacher, a unit of work is 60 minutes, of which the teaching time for the students is 45 minutes. The decisive factor for calculating 60-minute work units or for converting the work unit to 90, 100 or 110 minutes respectively is whether instruction is given or whether the teacher performs other pedagogical work. In conclusion, I would like to add that I have many positive reactions to the new working time agreement, both from teachers and from schools. It's a step in the right direction. However, as both questions and answers indicate, there is still much that can be done to simplify the agreement further.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1792	I understand the answer to that question that the Council of State agrees that it will be up to the individual principal whether he or she wants to purchase extra education or other pedagogical tasks at overtime by one or another teacher, or whether he or she wants to purchase this course from a teacher who can do this in the ordinary position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1797	The very best thing for any school is to be able to draw up a work plan for the whole year, where overtime is not needed, but where the regular education to be taught can take place within the planned time of the individual teacher. During the new working time contract, teachers have a pot of 20 hours that can be used more flexibly throughout the school year, so I would say that in sum, the new working time agreements will reduce the need for overtime use. This frees a resource that can be used to further improve the quality of the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1802	In its speech at Bolkesjö, the Council of State pointed out at the County Council’s training meeting that it was important for the school leaders to use the flexibility provided by the new working time contract. Later, in an interview with the Evening Post, the Council of State has presented it as the use of the agreement by Rogaland county councils and, in the near future, has misjudged the arrangement they have used. In my opinion, the agreement is exactly as the State Council pointed out here that the agreement can be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1807	It's important to distinguish different things here. Firstly, it is right that the agreement provides for a certain amount of savings in the form of reduced overtime. But first of all, the agreement is likely to improve the quality of the contract by reducing the entire period of education in contrast to the previous one. Part of the salary increase that teachers received can be taken in the form of a better use of resources, but when we experience that county municipalities cut school budgets far beyond it is possible to save through better use of working time, and justify it in the new working time agreement, I believe that the agreement is being broken down. Of course, every municipality and every county each year has to make the school budget for which they have room. Unfortunately, we know that some municipalities sometimes cut school budgets. However, using the working time contract as a reason for a large cut, I believe that there is no room for it, and that is what I believe puts the agreement in a bad light.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1815	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘Akershus County Council shall build a new central hospital and construction starts shall be fixed until 1 October. Development conflicts with higher education, and the department needs to be provided with new premises. The department has approx. 500 students and contribute greatly to the recruitment of nurses to SiA. Several possible localisation options have been considered. What will the Council of State do to secure university premises for the coming academic years, and can the Council of State guarantee that the admission of students to higher education next year will be as planned?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1824	Since it was decided that the University of Akershus should move to Lillestrøm, the department has worked on different localisation options there. Moving the total number of activities at higher education takes time. A start allocation for a new building has not yet been granted. The building that houses the nursing training is among the first to be demolished when a new central hospital in Akershus is to be built. Provision must therefore be made for a temporary solution for nursing training. The Ministry is working with different options for this. I can assure you that the Department attaches great importance to the existence of a satisfactory local solution and that the student admission can go as intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1831	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I perceive that the problems we now have with the premises will not affect the student admission. I perceive that this will go as planned. Then my next question will be to the Council of State: 1 October is a deadline, as it is now. Does the Council of State also work on that deadline, or does the Council of State see that this could possibly be shifted, and for that reason does this take something more calm than he would otherwise have done on 1 October as a deadline? This is important for me to get ready, so you have it as a frame.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1838	As far as I have registered, no date other than 1 October has come from those who are responsible for the expansion, so we continue to deal with it. If it's going to be a postponement, we might have to take it when it comes, but for the time being, there's no one who can say for sure that it's going to be a postponement. We have to find a solution that works, I was close by saying independent of construction start, but at least in relation to construction start at different times. So we have to have that embedded in our plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1843	I'll follow up on this. Since the Council of State operates on 1 October as a deadline, that is to say it has 5–6 months on it, and still no new premises have been found. Then my question becomes: does the council worry that he per. are there currently no alternative new premises for this training? A number of possible localisation options have been launched, one linked to the Telenor building at Kjeller. It was an alternative for a period – a good alternative in my opinion. Does the Council of State still see it as an alternative in that it is State Building that can be involved in relation to this new Telenor building? Does he see this as a possible locational option for nursing training when it has to move out on 1 October, or does he primarily work with other alternatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1850	When it comes to the construction that Telenor had on Kjeller, some deadlines were set for our treatment of what we did not think was a proper procedure and assessment of the different options. Now it turns out in retrospect, both in one place and another, that such deadlines may be set to press the ministry, and that there may be opportunities in retrospect. That means that there are many doors that are open, there are many alternatives that can be assessed, and we need to find a solution that is appropriate for the nursing students who will be there, for the college in Akershus’ overall activity, and perhaps also to facilitate the future location of the college in Akershus. So there are a lot of reasons to take, and we're going to try as hard as we can to take care of them when we're going to find a satisfactory solution for the nurse training for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1858	This question, from Kristin Halvorsen to the Minister of Church, Education and Research, will be raised by the representative of Ågot Valle.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1861	On behalf of Kristin Halvorsen, I have this question to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘The agreement concluded between the teacher’s organisations and the country opens up different attempts at working hours and other ways of organising the school day. Under the Training Act, primary schools shall be free of charge, but payments may be made for SFOs. Will the Council of State open the way for parental payments for students to participate in the experiment and will the Council of State have experiments where students who belong to the same class stage in the same school may receive different offers depending on whether parents have the opportunity to pay for their children’s education?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1870	The KUF and the teacher organisations have agreed on an agreement inviting municipalities and county councils to carry out tests on alternative working time arrangements for teachers. The main objective of the trials is to ensure better quality of teaching through more student contacts, greater flexibility and better resource use. A central point of the five experimental models is that teachers should be more accessible and spend more time at school. Schools, in cooperation with teachers, will thus be given greater freedom to organise school days. The most radical experiment is that the traditional division of hours worked by teachers is lost and replaced by a system where the years worked by teachers are divided into two: a fixed time in school by a maximum of 35 hours per year. a week and a free time that the teacher himself has. Model 2 specifies that the reading obligation of the individual teacher is to be determined locally. A model 3 provides for a different organisation of the annual work where more of the working time is tied to attendance at school, but without changing the reading obligation. Model 4 gives more contact and cooperation between students/teachers and teachers. Parts of the annual work are redispatched for this purpose. So it's model 5 that's a test of flexible arrangements for the use of teachers in combination with school and school leisure. None of the experimental models, including this last one, opens up procedures for parental pay for primary school education. Public primary education is free of charge under the Training Act. The rights of pupils to primary education are laid down in the Training Act. The content of the training is set out in its own regulations. I do not wish or can grant permits for experimental deviations from these provisions. Any changes in the rights of pupils to primary school and their contents can only be implemented as legislative or regulatory changes — and only after a broad and open process. I would therefore like to state that test 5 of the agreement between the department and the teacher organisations only provides the basis for attempts at alternative organisation of teachers' working hours. This model does not imply changes in the relationship between the school and the SFO or the framework they have to work from today, but if individual municipalities wish to initiate attempts to use teachers in a combination school and school leisure scheme, the teacher's working time agreement shall not preclude this. For the sake of order, I mention that none of the attempts related to this agreement could be put into action without the teachers' organisations and the ministry being given permission in the individual case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1896	I thank you for a thorough answer and look forward to many exciting trials. I think it's important to say that this experiment has to be about integrating SFO into school based on a recognition that learning is happening all the time – in games, in interaction with other kids, in interaction with adults. When two systems – one, the school, which should be free, and the SFO, for which it is partly required to pay very high – are integrated, we think there must be a free offer, that no payment should be made for the part that goes to the SFO, which is then to be integrated into the school. We will have a confirmation of that in SV. We can't have it so that participation depends on the economy of the parents. If payment is made for this complete offer, there will be another arena from which poor kids will be excluded. For these young people in particular, it is important that all school probabilities be abolished. Can the Council of State take the initiative and confirm that these trials should be free of charge?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1905	Let me first answer the question of proportion in school. There we have received signals that some people are experiencing the need to pay prosthesis for what they think should be the free primary education. This is why we have taken the initiative to monitor the use of marginalities in primary school, so that we can get an overview and then implement the measures necessary to ensure that what is in the Education Act is free of charge. It's solid. Even today, some young people have a full-time offer of first 20 hours in school during the week and then 15 hours or more in school leisure. There it is open for parental payment. It is not difficult to agree with the representative, Valle, that there should have been a cheaper offer, and in the long term also an offer of free school leisure time, but today it is a self-payment for it. Our goal in the government is to make it cheaper. But if you try new ways to organise it, and use that time so that the children in school and school leisure get a better quality offer, then, even if we work to make it a cheaper school vacation scheme on a continuous basis, a prerequisite for trying out new ways to organise, the total offer must be free.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1912	I note that the Council of State cannot meet our demand that all of this be free of charge, but he is given the opportunity to deal with a proposal that we have, that we should have a maximum rate for SFO based on what may be reasonable for the parents. SV has ambitious goals to bet on young people's growing-up conditions, and I have also realized that the government has gradually received: free core time in kindergartens, cheaper SFOs and – for which I hope the council will go in – better schools. Then it is important to ensure that municipalities can afford to implement these measures, otherwise some people have to pay with poorer offers or higher self-payments, as we see today, both where the rates of the SFO and the kindergartens have risen violently. Will the Government go into concrete calculations of the cost of launching these measures and ensure that municipalities can afford to put them into action?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1919	We will work every year to ensure that municipalities have the best economy possible within the limits allowed. And of course, providing a good community economy is the basis for a good school and a good kindergarten. There has been a tremendous rise in child care over many years. We've had one year of maternity leave. We've had a big expansion of kindergartens over the last ten years. We've got six-year-olds in school. We've got an extension of the school leisure system. In some of these cases SV has been a support player, in others they have been more critical. There are probably also differences between the Working Party and SV. I don't think we can ever manage to compete with SV, because whatever new reforms and proposals we come with, SV is going to propose plus 10 pst. – that it should be a little bit cheaper, or that it should be a little bit more. We're never going to win that competition. But we're going in the same direction, we're going as fast as we can, and we're trying out different schemes and we have different attempts to develop the Norwegian school. Then we see what works well, and what does not work so well, and let it be the basis of good, thorough preparation for new reforms in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1924	Case No. 1 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1938	At the UN meeting of the Least Developed Countries held in Oslo at the end of January of this year, Bangladesh said "Minister of Industry Tofail Ahmed: ‘Without rich countries opening up their markets to goods from the poorest countries, there will never be a sustainable business in our country.’ Bangladesh is one of the least developed countries in the world and one of the main beneficiaries of Norwegian aid in Asia. It is assumed that at least 50 million bangladshers live under what the United Nations has defined as a poverty line. And it is thus increased access to the markets of the rich countries that are at the top of the government's agenda. It is time for Norway to take this seriously and put this issue higher on its development policy agenda. For many years, the right has been a driving force for increased emphasis on trade and liberalisation of international markets as a development strategy. We have argued that it may seem pointless to provide economic development assistance while limiting the income opportunities of beneficiary countries through trade restrictions. The North-South/Help Commission of 1995 gave us support in this view, but we have met strong scepticism from the parties to the left of us in the Stortinget. The focus has been to a large extent on the proportion of GNI Norway is willing to provide in aid transfers. In view of the lack of commitment of these parties to open our borders to agricultural products from developing countries, the criticism of the Right regarding the level of assistance should give these lots a faint taste in their mouths. The Labour Party and the Centre Parties expressed their scepticism in the 1996 call for assistance to integrate the poorest countries into the world economy. They expressed inter alia: that a globalised economy can ‘contribute to the cementation of injustice’. But it's precisely to cement a trading system that gives industrialised countries the benefits of being able to protect their markets, which create injustice. It does not least contribute to many developing countries remaining suppliers of raw materials without the possibility of developing their own processing industry. Therefore, trade liberalisation should be a central element of a strategy for increasing growth and development in the poorest countries. In the name of justice, I would like to add that we have been on the road a while since the 1996 aid notification. Economic and industrial development in developing countries has become a more important field of Norwegian development policy. 23 pst. of the total bilateral assistance went in 1999 to measures to promote production and other industrial activities in developing countries. ‘Strategies for support for industrial development in the South’, as presented by the Bondevik government, received broad support from the Stortinget and continued by the current government. It is based on the recognition that developing a business with its own performance can develop independently in the long term. ‘Strategies for supporting industrial development in South’ focuses on different instruments, not least involving a significant boost in the debt relief plan to improve the investment climate in debt-reduced developing countries. The government has also continued to cooperate with the Norwegian business community in order to take advantage of their competence and experience in the development of business development programmes for specific countries. Nevertheless, in the opinion of the Right, Norway lacks a credible and active strategy to improve the access of developing countries to international markets. There is a strategy for both a freer and a fairer world trade. The EU's customs duties against developing countries are 30 pst. higher than the average rates of duty in world trade. The rich world's customs duties on the processed products of developing countries are four times as high as customs duties on the same goods from developing countries. In other words, there is a long way to go to free trade. There is sufficient evidence to demonstrate a positive link between trade and poverty reduction. The Norwegian Institute of Foreign Policy, NUPI, presented in a report published last year, entitled «Globalisation and inequality — the distribution of world income and living standards 1960-1998», the results that show that income differences between countries have actually decreased continuously since the late 1960s, and especially rapidly in the years 1993-98, when globalisation was speeding up worldwide. These Norwegian studies are supported by a study conducted by Harvard University, which showed that developing countries with open trade policies in the period 1970-90 had an economic growth of 4.5 pst. This year. Countries with closed borders had in comparison a growth of only 1 pst. The same trend also exists for countries, and shows that free trade is not a zero-sum game where some win and others lose. As trade in goods dominates the international economy, lowering already low rates of customs duties can bring great benefits. A 1999 EU Commission study shows that halving the world’s barriers to trade will lead to economic gains of up to EUR 400 billion per year. years. It's like adding an economy of the size of the Netherlands or South Korea to the world economy — every year. But developing countries are also affected by other developing countries' protectionism, since trade is mostly between neighbouring countries, and since there are often higher rates of customs duty here than between industrialized countries. Therefore, the argument that poor countries need to protect their markets in order to build up their industry could be as damaging to the development as the lack of market access in our markets. Although Norway has never provided more aid than now, our imports of goods from the world’s poorest countries are falling. In 1999, imports of u.a. decreased by 10 pst. Under 12 p.m. the Norwegian imports of goods come from developing countries, but these imports from the poorest countries still account for 44 pst, according to the Ministry of Finance. of our customs revenue. Customs duties on clothing from developing countries alone account for 22 p.m. of the total customs revenue. The average rate of duty on imports from developing countries was 4 pst. The customs load varies greatly between product groups. Average effective rate of duty at e.g. clothing is 14 pst., which is significantly higher than the average customs load on goods from Japan or the United States. Norway provides customs freedom for a wide range of goods through the customs preference system for the least developed countries. But we also have a long list with the exception of goods, where the poorest countries have to pay 70 pst. of the rate of duty applicable to entry into the Norwegian market. And among other things, we support: goods such as cereals, flour and feed. In addition, no zero duty has been imposed on all MUL countries exporting to Norway. As far as I'm concerned, zero duty is only applied to a 20th of the 48 MUL countries. How will the Council of State explain this? Right-hand thinks this isn't good enough. Although we have customs freedom for a number of goods from the 48 poorest countries, we have high rates of customs duty on important commodity groups from other developing countries. On the right, we now believe that we need to go further and consider expanding the number of countries that can benefit from the customs preference system. The most uplifting initiative for long-term market access for developing countries has come from the EU, which, on 26 February of this year, decided to introduce full customs freedom for the world's 48 poorest countries for all products except arms. The EU's decisions give the world's poorest countries increased market access on European markets. Although the scheme will involve long transitional arrangements for bananas up to 2006 and for rice and sugar up to 2009, the duty exemption should be implemented immediately for all other products. One important point is that for the first time the EU has used development policy arguments to unilaterally remove customs barriers. Some self-interest assessments have been set aside. It is a major advance and gives hope to the poorest countries prior to the next WTO round of negotiations. Rightly promoted in the context of the treatment of the State budget that Norway should do the same: eliminate all customs duties on products from the MUL countries and remove security mechanisms that stop imports from the developing countries if they become too high. Unfortunately, the proposal was supported only by the Progress Party and the Left. That's why the Right now challenges the Government and the Council of State. Will Norway follow the EU and give free market access to all products from the MUL countries? EU action has been met with congratulations from the Director-General of the WTO, but for the time being with silence from the Norwegian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e1987	Aid alone cannot solve the poverty problems in the world. Assistance is and can never be more than part of what is needed to create sustainable development. Assistance is a vital necessity, especially for the poorest countries. But assistance is not enough. A strategy to create development must be based on the full range of economic, social and political instruments. A one-sided focus on aid or trade contributes to the maintenance of poverty and dependence. Only coherence and wholeness contribute to development. The poorest countries lack many of the basic prerequisites for participating in the world economy. They lack health services and education. They have small and little well-developed economies. They lack effective and democratic management systems. Therefore, a strategy for increasing trade with the poorest countries must support both aid, industrial development and trade. That is what the Labour Party's policy is. This is our strategy: Point 1: The government is increasing assistance. This year’s government budget provides a strong increase in aid — in fact, the strongest increase in decades. A popular slogan has been ‘trade, not Aid’. The slogan implies a waiver of liability. If the poorest countries are to have some hope of becoming part of world trade, they need both assistance and trade. This was recently underlined by the World Trade Organisation’s Director, the WTO, at a conference on trade and development in London on 19 March this year, where we both participated. Trade does not occur by itself, in a vacuum. Trade requires knowledge and competence. What competence should be based on if girls and boys have to work on tobacco plantations and do not have access to basic education? Trade requires a healthy, labour-intensive and productive population. How to secure human capital in countries and communities, especially in Africa, where the HIV/AIDS epidemic directly affects 20-35 pst. by the population and is breaking down family and social structures? Trade requires robust social machinery. How can businesses develop without functioning infrastructure, in society undermined by corruption and without effective and democratic political institutions? Anyone who wants to sees that it doesn't work – without assistance! This is why the Government is betting on increasing assistance. It's help for survival and a decent life, and it's help for self-help. Point 2: The government strengthens its efforts for industrial development. This year’s budget represents a significant strengthening of support for economic development, investment and industrial development in our countries of cooperation. The schemes are simplified and focused to ensure that our support is even more effective. NORFUND has been developed into an instrument that can help create economic dynamism and innovation in the poorest countries. We want to create new and stronger alliances with the poorest countries. In January, Norway, together with the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), hosted an international seminar on the role of the private sector in creating development, focusing on investment and industrial development. In May, the third UN Conference on Least Developed Countries, MUL, will be held in Brussels, where Norway will take an active part. The themes of investment, industrial development and trade are increasingly on the agenda, both at home and internationally. We must be a driving force and an ally of the poorest countries in this work. Point 3: The government will lower the threshold for the poorest countries to participate in world trade. Our policies must be linked. Our aid and our trade policy must move in the same direction. Non-trade assistance is like a seller without a market. The poorest countries' share of world trade is now below 0.5 pst. Developing countries are unanimous in their demands for improved access to the markets of industrialised countries. We agree with these requirements. We must open our markets to the goods produced by the poorest countries. Norway has an open trade system of duty-free and quota-free imports for the vast majority of MUL products. The government closed the last teco allowances at the end of the year. Norway is with it one of the few countries that has removed all quotas for clothing and textiles. The government takes developing countries seriously, even when this may conflict with other Norwegian interests. A few weeks ago, the Government decided to maintain free imports of ostrich from the poorest countries, despite requirements from Norwegian ostrich producers for import protection. And we want to move on. As mentioned recently, the EU has introduced duty-free and quota-free market access for all products, with the exception of weapons from the MUL, with certain transitional arrangements for three sensitive agricultural products. The government's aim is to increase imports from the poorest countries. We are currently working on various proposals on how to lower the threshold for imports from them. Trade shall be based on an open and fair regulatory framework. This can best be done through the World Trade Organisation, the WTO. If we are to succeed in the process of a fairer and rule-based trade regime, we must bridge the contradictions that have stopped the negotiations in Seattle. In a new round of negotiations, I would like to stress that customs cuts are being carried out on export products of particular interest to developing countries. Fair international legislation presupposes that countries have the resources and competences to use it. Therefore, the Government places emphasis on technical assistance. We decided recently to contribute nearly 5 million. to a new fund to provide trade-related assistance to the poorest countries. Increased trade with the poorest countries is not just serving them. It can also serve Norwegian consumers. Of course, when importing into Norway, we should not give any specific benefits to developing countries in terms of quality, environment, safety and health requirements. A common commercial policy shall also be a good consumer policy. No chain is stronger than the weakest link. A trade strategy for the poorest countries is to establish framework conditions and conditions for economic development and progress. It requires a healthy economy. It requires a well-functioning infrastructure and energy supply. It requires the control of diseases such as HIV/AIDS. It requires sustainable investment and production. It requires respect for human rights. It requires a welfare system and fair distribution. It requires fighting corruption and poor governance. In other words, it takes a lot of effort across the line. The right and the representative Frost Sterri shall have credit for their involvement in increased trade with developing countries. But at the same time, the right weakens the opportunities for the poorest countries to participate in a freer and fairer world trade. This year, the Right proposed a cut in aid of over NOK 2.7 billion. It would have given an ODA share of 0.69 pst. – i.e. under the United Nations target of 0.7 pst. - and far from the target of 1 pst. of GNI. This would have put Norway in a bad light. This is nothing new. Every year, the Right proposes to cut the aid. And every year, the Right proposes that we spend NOK 2-3 billion less on contributing to development. It's no longer developing. It's not improving the framework conditions. And it's also not a way to go if the developing countries are going into world trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e2077	I choose to interrogate the Council of State's somewhat cramped outcome to the Right at the end of the post. However, as the Council of State, I would like to stress that the strategy for increased market access for developing countries must also include our efforts in international forums and, in particular, in the WTO. Norway has been an active contributor to the design of the basic principles of the WTO. Our trade with other countries has been a key prerequisite for our own prosperity development, and it is important for our export industries to have recognised and predictable rules of cross-border trade. The same applies, of course, to developing countries. Their framework conditions cannot be substantially improved without a new round of negotiations in the WTO. The majority of WTO member countries are developing countries. Since their share of world trade is currently low, these countries must have transitional arrangements in order to have more time to implement their obligations nationally while retaining all WTO membership rights. Particularly important are the dispute resolution mechanisms, which ensure compliance with rules and negotiated agreements, and prevent strong industrialised countries from overstepping the weaker party when trade conflicts arise. The right considers that Norway must have a negotiating profile in the WTO that is non-national. That is why we should now follow the EU and introduce customs freedom for all products from the MUL before the forthcoming Ministerial Conference in the WTO in Qatar in November this year. This will give the least developed countries a clear positive signal. In this way, the Council of State will also be able to contribute to it — by making such a contribution at the UN Conference for the least-developed countries to be held in Brussels in May this year. She will receive Right-wing support through such an initiative. I would also draw the attention of the Council of State to the bilateral investment agreements that Norway has with other countries, for they have been frozen from Norway for a few years pending WTO negotiations. On the right, the Government will assess the resumption of negotiations on bilateral agreements, as the other Nordic countries have done for the longest time. I noticed that this was not mentioned in the articles of the Council of State. I therefore respond to this as well, while hoping that she will be able to comment more precisely on the fact that for many of the MUL countries, zero customs duties have not yet been imposed on exports to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e2090	I want in this round, because I get the opportunity to come back one more time, just attach a few notes to the posts from the interpellant. We fully agree that trade is very important for development. I think the disagreement may be linked to the importance of aid to promote the ability of the poorest countries to participate in international trade. I recently attended a conference on trade and the poorest countries, among others. together with the leader of the World Trade Organisation, who strongly expressed the importance not only of direct trade-related assistance but of assistance across the board, as I mentioned in the introduction, precisely in order to create an environment conducive to business development, and then to be able to participate in international trade. It is obvious that developing countries must also be given increased access to the Norwegian market. That's also the government's goal and our work plan. I would also like to comment on a point that was raised, namely that the EU is now receiving praise from the WTO Chief for its decision. That's absolutely right, and for good reason. We think this decision is very interesting, and it should inspire someone and everyone. In fact, the WTO manager has a lot to say about the Norwegian GSP system, among other things. expressed during the conference we both just attended. Otherwise, I want to link a note to the role of the WTO, which I also see as very important. Here I would like to say a little more general that, with regard to globalisation and the globalised economy and the interests of the poorest countries, it is very important that we be able to maintain and develop a strong international public global sector, where the WTO is one of these important institutions that we need to develop further and give developing countries greater access to participate. But it also applies to other institutions, including the World Bank and the Monetary Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e2103	I think this interpellation is more an expression of the difference in strategic thinking than differences in what we want to achieve. Interpellant wants to increase trade with the poorest countries, and that is a wish that is probably shared by everyone in this Chamber. It is Right's view that free trade and an open market in itself create solutions and progress. Not everyone agrees. It is our opinion that certain fundamental conditions must be in place for this to work, and that it must work not only for the best of capital and owners, but also for the good of the peoples of these countries. We must not make ourselves so that the poorest countries, through the favourable trading conditions they are to have, become a battleground for participating interests that, eager to exploit these conditions, does not contribute to the development of the countries, but perhaps on the contrary depletes both natural resources and labour. Nor should it be that these countries involuntarily become transit countries for goods that lead to value creation in a completely different location from the countries to which we now have our interest. When some parties claim that we can reduce our financial assistance now, and that this will be covered by improving the conditions of trade, there is an experiment that I don't think has a very high chance of success. Financial assistance shall help to enable poor countries to participate in world trade in a solid and sustained manner. A good foundation must be health care, education, infrastructure, of course, and government control of crime, such as corruption. All of this is a prerequisite for these countries to be able to determine their own development and not be in the situation that there are other participating interests that govern and determine the development of this country. Then I have to be allowed to say that I have great joy that the Right now addresses this question, but it's not that this is a fight for which the Right has fought heroically for a long time. Last June — not so long ago — the Right said that imports of agricultural products from the MUL countries had to be regulated. So it's probably a confession that's come lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e2118	It is good that the Stortinget is invited to debate on foreign trade. Firstly, the challenge is that it is assumed that developing countries will lose twice as much in revenue on customs barriers as they receive in aid, and that the abolition of all customs duties would lead to 14 pst. increase in exports revenue for sub-Saharan Africa and in their GDP. And then another thinker, a great paradox: Western industrialized countries are subsidizing their agriculture by $30 billion more than the total GDP of Africa. It's quite a paradoxical number, which should be a wake-up call for all of us. But what have we done? The central government presented a comprehensive strategy for industrial development in the South and provided for increased investment in three areas: international investment and trade conditions, strengthening the position of developing countries in this way in the WTO, assistance and market access. We also proposed, in the context of the 2000 budget, to abolish all customs barriers or quotas on textiles for the MUL countries. Then we have had a debate in relation to agricultural imports, and there is no doubt that our GSP system to date, until the EU proposal was now presented, has been very comprehensive and offensive in relation to other countries with which we can compare. In fact, the EU has now followed Norway, and they have crossed us a little on the finish line with a duty-free regime for all goods. What is important in this context is to support what I understand the Council of States is now signaling, namely a review of the trade-related framework in relation to developing countries. I think it's positive that one will go through it and see what one might do more from the Government's side. I also agree with the overall approach proposed by the Council of State, namely that both aid, support for industrial development and increased trade and market access are important at the same time. At the same time, I am disappointed that I have caught up with some signals that the decoupling line that at least the previous government put on when it came to Norwegian support for the World Food Programme seems to have been reversed by the government that is now sitting, and I am attending, not least on the basis of the debate following the British Minister of Development's proposal for full decoupling, which debate can then come here in Stortinget. Because this too is linked. It is not useful to make a quick fix in relation to developing countries and trade and market access. They will not automatically be able to take advantage of market access, and I think our experience from 1995 to 1996 shows that. Most MUL countries have had market access to Norway through full customs freedom, minus three types of goods, and it has not been possible to use it. It shows how important it is that we have an offensive response to help developing countries develop a diversified business life, to institutional development, to education, to competence and to create export lines from their production to Norway, so that market access can be exploited. It is not ‘trade not Aid’, it is ‘trade and Aid’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e2133	Free trade in goods and shipping services provided the basis for Norway’s development from one of Europe’s poorest countries in the mid 1800s to a developed industrial nation more than 50 years later. The Norwegian shipping adventure was possible because it was free for Norwegian ships to transport goods from one country to another after the repeal of the navigation act in the United Kingdom. Norwegian seafarers and knowledge and Norwegian natural resources combined with market access and steady growth in world trade were a successful mix. Norwegian shipping and Norwegian industry enjoyed the time until World War I was marked by free trade. It is unnecessary to mention in this assembly that we today have one of the world's most complete maritime clusters. It did not happen through alms, but through market access. Norway’s offensive interests in the WTO and free trade are clearly more important than the defensive ones. Industrial and service activities need better market access. In particular, the Norwegian fishing industry relies on better market access to develop further both in the farming, processing and development of new fishery products. Efforts to improve the market access of poor countries to agricultural products and other raw materials go hand in hand with a strategy to improve market access for fish. Across the EU and the United States, Norway and many developing countries have much common interests in this area. This applies, inter alia, to: reduced rates of duty on food and reduced opportunities to abuse the anti-dumping provisions of the WTO Agreement as a protectionist instrument. However, official policies do not take this into account and place too much emphasis on Norwegian defensive interests, such as preventing the import of agricultural products. It is doubtful in the interest of developing countries to facilitate better international investment. Once again we can look at Norway in the 1800s. From the mid-19th century there was a relatively large British capital export to Norway. A number of spinning mills, textile factories and other activities were started in Norway with British capital. It was important for the development of national industrial competence and prosperity development in Norway. It is important that developing countries have the same opportunities. Norway must therefore give priority to the establishment of a common international investment legislation. So finally, it was interesting to get the Council of State's description of the government's ostrich policy. The fatality in the issue of ostrich is not the last decision, but the fact that tens of millions of BU funds were used to get people to start up with ostrich farms in Norway that, of course, would not be competitive in relation to the natural environment in which an ostrich should be located.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e2144	The interpellant raises an important and relevant question: how are we going to contribute to the prosperity and development of poor countries through increased trade, and what is the Government doing about this? While Norway has never provided several billions of aid, imports of goods from the poorest countries have shown a declining or stagnant trend. I'm going to get into food production in particular, where some countries are totally dependent on exporting to collect currency and be able to build up. To Today's Business on 22 January last year, the then Great Britain Representative and current Prime Minister, Jens Stoltenberg, stated the following: ‘The rich world cannot continue to destroy its agriculture by dumping its overproduction.’ The Progress Party fully agrees with the Prime Minister's statements. When Western countries, including Norway, dump meat and other agricultural products on the world market in order to support their own agriculture, it does not help starving people to eat much and cheap internal files. What happens in some of the developing countries is that you sell meat from cattle farming, which is expensive calories, and for the money, rice and grain are bought, which are cheap calories. To a certain extent, if meat is dumped from Western countries, the production of meat from developing countries is low on the market. Then they have problems to feed themselves and to increase their standard of living. It doesn't seem like the Government has understood this, because it does pure protectionism in the food sector. Where does solidarity and justice become to the Third World? We provide two-digit billions of aid, but these countries refuse to sell their products when they can compete on price and quality. Not least with Norway’s usual care for the fate of developing countries, the Government should be ready to grant extensive concessions in the field of agriculture. But here we are among the world's most greedy, regardless of the statements the Council of State has made today. We are importing some beef – very limited quotas – from Botswana, Namibia and some other countries, under the so-called MUL scheme. But it'll be a symbolism policy. And it won't stop here. In 1999, Norway dumped 19 000 tonnes of highly subsidised and prima bovine and porcine meat at world prices, partly in competition with the Third World, which does not have the opportunity to compete for the most subsidies. If the government is to gain credibility in the aid policy, there is a need to do something about food imports and take the burden of putting Norwegian food producers under greater pressure. It is imperative to give developing countries access to the Norwegian market.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e2164	As many have said, there is an important topic the interpellant has addressed, and the initiative would, of course, have been even more affordable if this had been part of a holistic and genuine commitment for the benefit of poor countries. For the Right, it has to be remembered that the lot, for example: during the budgetary procedure last autumn, the Norwegian aid proposed a cut of NOK 2,7 billion, and this as a partial financing of the Right's proposal on tax relief. And I get a little provoked when the interpellant says that there are others in this hall that should have reason to have a dull taste in their mouths. A party that finances tax credits with aid and cuts in the health pay scheme should perhaps think a little differently on that issue. Otherwise, I must say that I am a little surprised at some points of view that have emerged in the debate. Then I think about the experience we have gained in recent months in international food trade. It's a shame, and it's a little serious if it's not a confession that trade in food can't be put in the same category as, for example, other industrial products such as textiles and clothing, it is a little alarming if it is still such that it is treated and assessed as the nearest uniform product type. The trade framework is largely established through WTO negotiations and it is important that Norway, in the context of the WTO, takes account of export products of particular interest to developing countries. Both WTO rules and national conditional framework conditions need to pay particular attention to the needs of LDCs for specific schemes and what we may call positive discrimination. Here Norway, like the Council of State, has shown a willingness both to liquidate quotas and to implement customs reductions. I would like to underline the importance of coherence and consistency in Norwegian trade policy in relation to national policy. The Council of State specifically mentioned one thing, namely the ostrich matter. The problem here is that the Labour Party government has over time given what we can call a 'double message', by first giving whole-hearted financial support, among other things. through the BU funds, to invest in new industries, and then in the next round – once the industries have been established and one has started and has won over the childhood diseases – is a willingness to open completely to imports, with the necessary consequence that all those who have invested in this industry actually have to give up because they are short and well bankrupt.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e2175	I agree with the inter-pellant that increasing trade with the poorest countries can be an important contribution to poverty reduction. It is positive that the Right will fight poverty, but the credibility of the Right in these issues is not entirely on top when the Party, at the same time as each budgetary procedure, swings sharply over the aid budget. The right is blind to the importance of free trade and does not see the need for a number of other conditions to succeed in combating poverty. Should increased trade lead to fewer poor people, there must be a minimum of distribution mechanisms, for example: by using increased revenues to invest in public goods. In addition, there is a need to focus on education and people must have access to basic health care. These include: These things we support through the aid appropriations, and this aid is not intended to be replaced by increased trade. Moreover, economic growth does not necessarily mean welfare growth for the poorest. In order to promote economic growth, it is also not just to bet on free trade. Democracy, health care and education for all are factors that promote economic growth. It's our own story the best proof of. When the Right is in favour of a dramatic cut in ordinary aid and apologises for the fact that they want to increase free trade, it is far from a calculation that is for the benefit of the developing world. On the right, there is a policy that will mean a much slower effort from Norway to combat poverty. That being said, SV strongly shares the desire for Norway to pursue a trade policy that goes further in the favour of developing countries. If Norway is to have a development policy that consistently promotes the interests of developing countries, we must both allow free trade in goods from developing countries and provide an aid effort of at least 1 pst. GDP. Thus, when examining the current year’s budget, SV joined with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left to ask the Government to propose further tightening of customs tariffs from so-called MUL countries. Promoting sensible investment in the poorest countries will also be a positive way of contributing to economic growth. During the State budget procedure, SV made a proposal that DKK 5 billion of the funds of the oil fund should be used for investment in the poorest countries. When the Value Commission today launches the idea of 10 pst. therefore, it is only to be welcomed that the yield from the oil fund should be invested in developing countries. The elimination of debt is another measure that is necessary if the poorest countries are to get on the financial footing. Norway has an important job to do in terms of progressing in debt reduction. But, as I said, EN very much likes Norway to achieve a fairer trade policy that means that we can deal more with the poorest countries. SV therefore looks forward to the Government making proposals, as the Minister for Development said, that will enable us to increase trade with the poorest countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e2195	This is not the first time the Storting is discussing issues of trade with developing countries. It is interesting to note that those batches that have usually done their best to slow down trade in the products actually sold by developing countries are the same as those that now use great power and voice usage for aid and that trade may be important, but not for any goods. That's not what Kjell Engretsen said, that we haven't been interested in this before. Kjell Engebretsen knows that too, because last time he was in the finance committee when we dealt with the preferred system. He also knows that in that context it was the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party that blocked to increase the quotas on trade from the MUL countries within the food category, which is still the area where most developing countries are likely to have their highest export potential. It's food – we can't fool ourselves into believing anything else, it's not computers or processed goods, but food – which will be the primary commodity that the poorest countries have the opportunity to get on the market. It is the same sacred alliance between the Centre Party and the Workers' Party that would not increase the allowances, which would also maintain the auctioning principle introduced, which has caused even greater problems for those countries which have major difficulties in establishing good arrangements for selling to Norway because they have poorly developed infrastructure. It is as simple as that in some countries, for example. in Botswana, has been having trouble getting enough hermetic boxes to corned beef. These are things we don't think of as a production problem, but creating short-term contracts and short-term contracts in the case of purchases to Norway has caused problems in getting delivered and building up a market in Norway. At the same time, when applying an auctioning principle to the allowances that have been held on food from that type of country, it has been made more difficult for these countries to enter the market because those who have managed the agreements and have built up the cooperation may be at risk of being replaced suddenly. At that time, the holes were obtained in 1995-96, where it took from six months to a year before importing through these quota arrangements again, because they had switched suppliers to Norway because some others had won the auctions. It is important to widen the trade with developing countries. But for the developing countries themselves, it is important to know that they have market access if they are able to get someone to invest in production. And today, contrary to what many on the no side of the EU debate pointed out, the EU was a slowdown, while Norway was so good, that the EU is actually a milestone ahead of us in being sensitive to trade from developing countries. To be honest, we should follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e2209	The representative Frafjord Johnson's closing statement, 'trade and Aid', seems to me to be a good expression for taking the steps that the interpellant in this matter really wants to take. It's about a situation where, at the same time, it might have to be the most important thing about building up skills in the underdeveloped nations, while at the same time we have to use words as a market situation and commercialisation, because these moments are so closely connected, and at the same time the world is in a situation where we see that the wealth gap between the rich and the poor countries is increasing every day. It is also surprising to note today that the spokesman of the Centre Party, Johan J. Jakobsen, again has a day of bad taste in his mouth and chooses to take hold of the interpellant and claims that the Right has the motivation to cut the aid work to finance the need for increased tax relief. So it says the representative of a party that every day makes every effort to prevent one of the world's richest countries from coming into a situation where we can buy the only products that the underdeveloped countries have to sell to the rich nation of Norway. In my opinion, there is reason to have a bad taste in your mouth when you have the kind of approach to the questions we're dealing with, on which the interpellant has been priced, because it's simply pointless if you're going to use the opportunity today to measure our conscience according to how good we are politically to provide support through the aid budget measured by the percentage of gross domestic product. That's not the way we can and should go – when we build international trade barriers, and when the United States produces 30 pst. More food than the nation needs, and the EU does the same. How much we produce more than we need in Norway, I do not know, but we are probably in line with what the underdeveloped countries have to do with. What is at stake is to give developing countries a market situation that enables investors to enter and develop countries. They must have a market to sell their products to. It's the only dangerous way we can go. I think it is necessary in this context that Norwegian aid policy and Norwegian aid actors also go on their own and evaluate the results. As we increase our contribution, we see that trade into the country is going down dramatically. It's a regrettable development.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e2218	At the end of this debate, I would like to stress that the growing understanding of the need for economic development and growth in developing countries should also change the attitude towards trade. We need agreements that oblige countries to reduce their trade restrictions, agreements where developing countries themselves are central partners. The Norwegian Attac movement is likely to be in Qatar in November, where the WTO, with its 140 member countries, will hold its next round of freer world trade negotiations. But if the organisation is to do the same thing where it contributed to Seattle, where Attac was in the lead to stop the WTO's attempts to launch a round of negotiations, they are doing the very opposite of what the developing countries themselves want. I have previously quoted Bangladesh" Minister of Industry Tofail Ahmed. He also said during the UN seminar in Oslo that the protest movement in Seattle contributed to slowing down the most important aspect of globalisation, namely opening up markets to products from developing countries. Continued and increased protectionism is the result of the absence of negotiated solutions in international organisations such as the WTO. Through this debate, the government has been given the opportunity to show whether it wants to see Norwegian trade policy in the context of developing countries’ needs for market access. The answer so far is somewhat hesitant. The right is of the opinion that Norway must take the side of the developing countries. Norway adorns itself with being world champion in direct money assistance per year. Inhabitants into the poor countries. A comprehensive and cooperative development policy must mean that Norway is doing as the EU does and opens up our market for non-resident goods. Finally, I would like to make a little quote from an article in the Evening Post on March 21, by the Director of the Nobel Institute, Geir Lundestad: ‘We should listen to developing countries themselves. Most people want more free trade from the rich countries, not less. Development assistance can be good and good. However, it is far more important for developing countries to export in areas where they are competitive, whether in agriculture, textiles or steel.’ He concludes his article in the following way, which I think should go with the clear address of the Centre Party and the contribution they have made in this debate: ‘Many of the critics of globalisation really stand for a protectionism that will harm the developing world.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e2239	Norway has to take part in the developing countries, says the inter-pellant. I will wholeheartedly support that, but it only underlines the importance of having an overall approach to these issues. There must be trade and assistance and the links between those in focus. This means that we need to increase the access of developing countries to our markets, but we also need to increase aid. We have a moral obligation to do so in the prosperity in which we live. The government is reviewing our policy in this area, including in the preparation of WTO negotiations, in order to realise our potential for improvement in this area as well. For such a potential exists. We need to increase imports from the poorest countries, among others. through improved market access. But it is not the poorest who will enjoy increased market access if we do not also accompany this access with actual assistance, among other things. trade-related assistance, but also other assistance. It has been highlighted that Norway is also dependent on access to other countries’ markets. Yes, and fish is a very important example there. The more important it is that we are able to achieve a broad round of WTO negotiations, but then we are also dependent on the confidence of developing countries. This confidence is established by being appropriate in the field of trade, but also by showing in practice that we are willing to increase other resource transfers. I mentioned the need for a strong international public sector where the WTO is an important international institution. On the other hand, the company's social responsibility, which is also important in terms of trade and investment, goes. There was a question here as to why more MUL countries have not implemented the GSP scheme in their exports to Norway. The main reason for this is the lack of systems of so-called certification of origin in these countries themselves. We have a responsibility here to help them get this in place, and our embassies, among other things. active in the implementation of the GSP scheme in countries where it is not now functioning properly. Trade-related assistance is also important here. With regard to EU proposals, it is important to remind ourselves that there is also a safety mechanism related to market disruption in this. That's something we've also noted in the assessment of our own system. I just want to comment on the issue of struts. It is true that there has been support for the ostrich industry. On the other hand, we almost had to expect Norwegian ostrich industry to have competition from other countries. The country of origin of the Strutsen is at least not Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e2256	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-28.ana.ud952e2265	There is no record.
