ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e27	It summons the alternate of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Astri Wessel, has a teke seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e35	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinget meeting today – and see it as agreed. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e40	I allow myself to propose Per Ove width.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e45	Per Ove Width is proposed as president. . Other proposals are not in line, and Per Ove Width is elected by consensus as the chairman of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e50	I would like to make proposals to the Government to investigate and propose legislation in order to be able to prosecute and punish all persons in a ‘god’ and to punish them for violent persecution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e55	The proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e76	On Monday the Storting received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Sylvia Brustad State Council Siri Bjerke State Council Olav Akselsen These government members are there, and we're ready to start the oral Question Time. Representatives who, in addition to the pre-announcers, would like to ask their main questions will be asked to stand up. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative of Kjell Magne Bondevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e95	I have a question for the municipal minister, which is also central to integration and the fight against racism. Unfortunately, there are things that indicate that racism is also widespread in our society. UDI has conducted a survey in 29 municipalities showing this, and the last horrific violence episodes are a new example. It is necessary to mobilise on a broad front with a number of measures to reverse trends in racism. The central government drew up an action plan against racism, established a centre against ethnic discrimination and started work on a law against ethnic discrimination, which I hope will come soon. But now we see that on several points this is not followed up well enough. This applies in the housing sector, where the anti-racism action plan does not seem to have been followed up well enough, in the case of the labour market sentence, which is followed up, in the case of the recognition scheme for foreign education and in the case of the legal system. What will the Minister of State do to ensure an effective follow-up to the action plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e108	Let me first say that the cruel thing that happened this weekend should not and should not happen in Norway. Of course, the government will do what is in our power to help that kind of thing not happen, and to fight back against everything that has to do with racism and Nynazism. We're taking a strong distance from what's happened. It is true, as the representative Bondevik says – obviously, I think – that there is a lot going on around Norway about racism. Something happens unconsciously, but unfortunately also deliberately – more than we think. Here, first of all, I believe that we all, not only as politicians, but also as individuals, have a responsibility to fight back every time someone tries to say something or do something about racism. In addition, it is important that we – I think – go through the law to see if it works. There is a sample at work to make an adjustment for the autumn. The government will go through the whole law, and it's right, as the representative Bondevik says, that it doesn't work well enough in relation to, for example. labour market and housing situation. It is also the case that the government will put more money at the disposal of anyone who wants to contribute to do something about this terrible. This applies to individuals, groups and organisations who want to take action to try to do something about it. We want to unite all the good forces to try to do something about it, and mobilize to a force effort so that such things don't get to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e115	I believe that in the fight against racism a more successful integration policy is crucial. We see examples of the labour market, where, for example: Two well-trained civil engineers have applied for 850 jobs without being called up for an interview at all. This suggests that attitudes have not penetrated the system as they should. There is a need for cross-sectoral responsibility, and I think it is necessary for one Council of State to have a special driving responsibility to follow up the action plan, so my question to the Council of State is: Will the Minister of State take on the responsibility for coordinating and driving the action plan itself? Let me also say that having an effective Foreign Affairs Directorate, UDI, is important for a positive refugee, asylum and integration policy. We see that UDI has had huge problems. The Christian People's Party leader, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, asked on Friday that a review be carried out, an examination of the UDI. I am pleased to note that the Council of State has today notified it, and would like to acknowledge it back positively.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e124	It's totally unacceptable that people don't get a job because they have a different name than what's usual in Norway, and it's totally unacceptable that people don't get a job in Norway because they have a different color, a different religion or a different background than most people in Norway. We don't want to sit still and watch that. There is also some background that the government just before Christmas presented a big message, which is now being discussed here, on a better integration policy. I must say that I think many people should take self-criticism because the integration policy that has been in place in this country for many years has unfortunately not worked out in many areas. Therefore, there is now a need to work in a slightly different way, and one must be more active than what has been the case up to now. So to the question of whether I take on the coordination responsibility in relation to following up the action plan as well. The answer to that is, of course, yes. With regard to the question of the UDI, it is as some newspapers say today, that I believe there is a need to review the functioning of the foreign administration, UDI in particular. I'll ask that we get that before summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e131	There will be follow-up questions – Odd Einar Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e134	I see it as very positive that the Council of State assumes a coordination responsibility. We are all aware that there is a work going on to make a law against ethnic discrimination. I hope the Council of State hastens the work, but on the way you can do something. You can, for example: take such practical measures as to ensure that the police systematically reduce all situations where young people experience the fragmentation of a youth group as a result of skin colour when entering an outdoor area. This is not a matter that is very big, but it is a matter that is extremely much about creating trust, so that everyone feels trust in the Norwegian community, especially those who have a different skin color than the Council of State and me. It is a concrete question that I would ask her to raise with the Minister of Justice. Similarly, as Mr Bondevik brought up here, it can be ensured that when immigrants apply with competence, they are called for an interview on the basis of the papers, so that the name and colour of the skin are not determined. The state can go ahead to make sure that this happens, and set it as a norm. There are two concrete contributions that allow us to talk about us, and not about them and us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e153	Of course, as far as the last question is concerned, I fully agree. It's also important to do something in relation to the competence that is. In a situation where we have a major shortage of labour, for example: in large parts of our country, it is quite hairy that unemployment among our new countrymen is much, much higher than in the rest of the population. I have met many people who are trained as doctors, lawyers, assistant nurses, etc., who do not get a job in Norwegian society. No matter what education and competence they have, we need those resources in Norwegian society. We're going to do everything in our power to help that happen, but we also have to do it in close cooperation with the social partners if we're going to do it in practice. When it comes to the question of, for example: This with outdoors, which is a concrete example of how discrimination actually happens, it is quite fundamentally wrong that if there are four whites coming to a place, then it is okay, while we see that if there are four with dark skin coming to the same place, it is suddenly a bunch, and that is a problem. It shouldn't be like that. Of course, I would like to take the views of Mr Dørum further to the Minister of Justice, and we should look at that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e161	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e164	I am pleased that the Council of State has now so clearly and openly admitted that the integration policy that former Labour Party governments and other governments have conducted has not produced the desired result. I wish you had perhaps gone a little bit more in yourself and looked at the basic elements of this, but it is now for treatment in Stortinget. In this respect, of course, the fight against all discrimination against people because of their ethnic origin, race or religion is totally unacceptable and must be combated. Will the Government introduce the principle that it will counteract all trends and proposals that discriminate against people based on race, religion and ethnic origin, i.e. in all directions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e169	For the Workers' Party and for the Government, it is absolutely essential that all people are equally valuable wherever they come from, no matter what background they have, no matter what skin color they have and no matter what religion, gender or age people have. It has to be clear. I believe that is one of the most important things in the debate we are now in the middle of, when we have seen as cruel events as we have. But then it's important that all political parties take a strong distance from such things that have happened here, and take a strong distance when there are statements that criticize a particular group because they come from a particular country or have a certain skin color. That kind of thing doesn't help to reduce racism or xenophobia in this country. I would appeal back to Carl I. Hagen, who represents a large party in Norway, to also take the responsibility inwards in relation to the responsibility that I believe all the political parties in this country have to fight back against xenophobia and racism. And I don't feel exactly that it is the Progress Party that has been at the forefront to help reduce xenophobia and racism in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e176	Hilde Frafjord Johnson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e179	As a former Minister of Human Rights, I have had a coordinating responsibility with the Minister of Municipal Affairs in this very area, and the experience is that there are some plugs in the system. We can share the appeal that the Council of State comes with, and we can agree quite fundamentally, but the question is how we can ensure a proper follow-up. I'm going to mention two plugs, and one goes to the labour market seat. As far as I am aware, the Labour Market Act opposed the amendment to Section 55(A) of the Working Environment Act, which the Council of State agreed against discrimination in employment. If Aetat is to follow this up properly, they must also be an establishment that is convinced of the significance of this change. The second is the recognition scheme for foreign education, for which the Minister for Church and Education is responsible. In fact, I would say that there is a scandalous handling here, not by the Council of State, but in terms of how the authorisation system works. It is that education is accepted at Harvard, but not at the University of Oslo. We have to do something about this, and this has an important driving responsibility for following up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e186	Yes, compared to the last one, I fully agree with the representative that it is hopeless that we have a system that takes so long to have the competence that you have with you from other countries. That is why we have also made some proposals in the Communication on Integration, which is now being discussed here in the Grand Duchy. I think we have to get that plug out of the system so that this goes much faster, and there we also want to contribute, it has to be absolutely clear. With regard to the first question of the amendment to Paragraph 55(A) in relation to discrimination, we now have, as the representative is well-known, the case here in Stortinget, and there is no doubt that the Labour Market Act is very central to this if we are to also manage to get more of our new countrymen into work. In fact, we need more labour, and there are many resources that are now lost because we do not succeed in doing so, and of course we will have a close dialogue with the Labour Market Act in the follow-up to the decision that Stortinget had to take in the specific case, Section 55 A.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e193	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e196	I hope the Council of State agrees with me that one of the important things to combat racism is to focus a little more on the positive aspects of both immigration and having a multicultural society, rather than being concerned with the challenges and problems we have at all times, and that labour immigration may help combat racism by getting more immigrants into a resource group that will be self-held and have different types of work than many of the refugees and asylum seekers we have had to do now. Then there is one specific area of racism in the labour market, which I think the Council of State could address, also in relation to the Minister of Labour and Administration. Some immigration organisations have wanted to establish measures to actively market their ethnic group to the employers concerned. There is currently no room for allocation within any item of that type of measure. On the right, we have proposed a measure, namely a testing scheme for a wide range of such measures, but we have received no from the ministry so far. Will the Council of State try to find funds for that kind of action in the field of anti-racism appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e203	I can't answer right above the table here today, but I'm taking those signals back and I'm going to promise to talk to the Minister of Labour and Administration about it. There must at least be no doubt that the Government wants to do what we can in terms of using the many resources that are currently unused among our new countrymen, among others. in working life. So I'm taking that proposal back. When it comes to the issue of labour immigration, the government comes back to some concrete proposals in a very short time about what we think should be done to make it easier to get more people to work in our country, which we also need.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e210	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e213	The Council of State took maritime criticism on behalf of its own government and others because we have not succeeded properly with integration policy and prevented racism. Then I need to ask why the Government has provided a big message that, apart from one action, as far as I can understand, contains nothing new. All other measures that have been largely endorsed by the Storting have been taken. The only new measure in the Communication is for municipalities to be forced to settle refugees and asylum seekers. Does the Council of State feel that such a coercion is involved in reducing possible discrimination and racism in the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e219	First of all, I distanced myself from the claim that there should only be one new measure in that message. In that case we must at least talk about two different messages, because there are a wide range of proposals for action on what should be done in relation to integration policy, this is the theme that the representative Karin Andersen raised here in relation to housing – I will comment on it afterwards – in relation to education, employment, asylum reception, single minors, etc. But I expect this to give us enough opportunity to discuss when the matter is to be dealt with here in Stortinget. When it comes to the settlement of refugees, at least I'm sure that the arrangements we have per year. today, not working. There are so many who remain in reception for months and years because the municipalities will not accept them for different reasons. We have taken this seriously by increasing the integration grant from NOK 300000 to NOK 365 000. I am pleased that the Storting has adopted it; that is to say, what the municipalities have asked for. But then I expect more municipalities in this country to take more responsibility for resettlement, and then I believe that we also need to consider new arrangements to get it done more quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e226	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e229	The fight against fear of the future and racism must take place at many levels, both through the law and through mind-creating work. A safe, inclusive growth environment is very important if we are to move on. It was important to note that there was so little agreement between the Labour Party on all voluntary work, and what happened specifically in the last state budget when cheeses were passed on to most teams and organisations, and where, in many cases, a cut in relation to activities that are crucial to ensuring a better environment for each community. Could it be expected that the Labour Party may try to reconcile more closely all the fine words that are uttered in the case of voluntary work with the means that are put at its disposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e234	Yes, in fact, I believe that there is agreement between word and action, and I do not agree with the representative Meltveit Kleppa's description that there was a need for cheese over all non-governmental organisations. It is true that non-governmental organisations in this country – like us, for example. have looked after the terrible thing that happened during the weekend, that they have gathered together, in this context under the direction of, among other things. by Red Cross and other non-governmental organisations, churches, sports, etc. – do a very important job. And there is no doubt that they are we totally dependent on to succeed in the fight against xenophobia and racism. We spend money on it, and we're going to spend money on it in the future. But let me also say: if we're going to succeed in this, I think it's very important that we do manage to maintain measures like this. Kindergartens, that we do manage to maintain measures that allow parents to afford to have their children in kindergarten, and that we don't experience what I've seen in this city, that the school leisure arrangements are so expensive that half of the parents have to take their children out because the parental payment is too high, and most of these are immigrant children. If we're going to succeed, we have to start already while the children are young, and it's very important that one then learns that everyone is equally valuable no matter how you look and how you talk.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e241	Let's get on with the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e244	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister of State. It is true that we have had more recent look-ups on the UDI and problems related to different ways of managing financial regulations and dealing with construction matters. I am pleased that the Council of State has now shown the power of action in this matter, and now will have a full review of the UDI. But I have a problem, and it is linked to the fact that the Council of State was also to act in the autumn in relation to the bottlenecks in the proceedings and gave UDI a very short period of time to put concrete action on the table before the Council of State, so that all kinds of cases would be dealt with. Two months have passed since the UDI presented to the Council of State the document containing a number of proposals for simpler procedures in the administration of foreign affairs, and the Council of State has not yet given a steering signal for their treatment and regulatory changes. When will the Council of State begin to show its power of action — more than to ask for investigations?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e253	I believe that the government is constantly showing its power of action. We work almost day and night trying to do something about this, which I fully agree with, namely that the processing time in very many cases has become too long. So it is true that on the basis that I asked for a report or a proposal from the UDI, I got it in December. We've been through it very carefully. I will make concrete proposals in a few weeks to what I think should be done in order to simplify the procedure procedures and the procedure period in order to make it faster than is the case per. today. Let me also say that I think there are a lot of good suggestions in the UDI. But I think it's very important that we go through it carefully and look at the consequences of doing it one versus the other, and so on. But as I said, I come back with concrete proposals over a few weeks on what I think should be done in that context. When it comes to the external company I want to put on the UDI now and until the summer, it has to go through and look at how the UDI works in relation to, for example, the UDI. procedures and the functioning of the UDI in relation to the economy. In view of, inter alia: some suggestions we have seen in one newspaper, where the manager of the UDI has also taken self-criticism, I feel a responsibility to be sure that the money paid by taxpayers is properly managed, and I have asked for that review before the summer. But let me also say that the UDI is in a very stressful situation. There are now many more asylum seekers coming to our country. We've said from many teams that UDI has almost everything to do, and it's not that simple. And it's also that there are difficult things, that have a lot of attention, and we're not least dealing with people. Leave it in the picture as well. But we're going to contribute from our side to trying to make the situation better, and I'm not satisfied as it is per. in the case of procedural time, today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e264	I want to record the expression "prioritize everything." In fact, from Stortinget, we have given quite clear signals at several budgetary discussions on what to prioritise, that the processing of work permits should be given priority and that the processing time for asylum applications should be given priority. So now it is reported that the treatment of work permits has gone up to one year, and there are still between 12 and 13 agencies to comment on each application for a work permit. Will the Council of State guarantee that there will now be a simpler processing of work permits and that the overall capacity of the UDI may be facilitated by at least taking curative work permits out of the UDI's proceedings and either having the labour market seat or the police dealing with these matters? Today, therefore, we find that acute labour shortages in some sectors cannot be solved because of bureaucratic problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e271	Only in the case of priority. It is true, as the representative Erna Solberg says, that it has been said from the political team here in Stortinget that, among other things. priority should be given to asylum matters, and there we see some positive developments. However, it is also true that at least I am being contacted by both wholesalers and many others that the processing time for work permits, family reunification, visas, etc. should be much shorter, and I agree with that. When it comes to questions about the processing time, I will come back to it in 14 days. But just let me say it that way that I seriously consider many suggestions to see if there's anything we can lift out of the UDI, if others can do it, and my clear goal is that it should happen in a simpler and faster way compared to what is happening today – and I'll get back to that in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e278	There will be follow-up questions - Sverre J. Hoddevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e281	The evening post last Saturday considered Norway’s attractiveness to asylum seekers. The title was ‘Ferre applicants for asylum in Norway’. After discussing a certain downward trend in the numbering material, it is commented by a NOAS representative that Norway has a strict asylum policy. This is met by State Secretary Gelius, who claims the opposite, and in addition, an embellishment of Norwegian asylum policy is announced. The question to the Council of State is: Where did the Secretary of State get this mandate? Is there a new policy with which the Government will come to the Stortinget, or was it taken from the big paper earlier, which other of us may have difficulty remembering to have seen?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e289	Let me first comment on the question of stay in relation to asylum versus humanitarian grounds. It is right that we accept very many on a humanitarian basis, and that there are a little fewer applicants for asylum compared to some other countries. But that's because it has something to do with who's applying for our country, and that's what's crucial for what basis you get to stay in Norway, if you need protection, and what that picture looks like. We do not intend to put forward a new policy in this area, but it is clear that some of the proposals that are now being considered, among other things. in relation to the representative of Erna Solberg, if one is in favour of all the proposals that have been put forward, it could lead to a slightly different approach in some areas than it is today. I believe that we should take a concrete position on this, but we have no intention of adding ourselves to a new policy in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e294	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e297	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. In St. prp. No 36 says the government at 15 pst. of the shares in the deck shall be transferred to Statoil and an additional 5 pst. of the shares shall be sold to Norsk Hydro and the other companies. Now, through various press releases in the last few days, I see that negotiations are already under way between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and Statoil on these shares. In today's business on Monday, the Council of State defended this process of'more urgent need for Statoil than for the others'. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: would it not be natural and not least fairer to start negotiations with Hydro and the other companies at the same time with Statoil if he believes that negotiations are the right procedure? And what other procedures does the Council of State consider to apply to Hydro and the other companies on the base?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e306	The thing we're talking about here is one of the biggest and most important things – at least in this period. It is important, therefore, that we discuss unseemly where unsemja is, and not on other points. The reception of this matter was given when it was presented to the Stortinget, I feel that I was particularly good from the political parties' side. This may have led to a discrepancy in media relations, and I actually feel that the contradiction that has been tried at this point in recent times is primarily created by the media, because nothing from the Government is being done in this matter that has not been described in what has been presented to the Stortinget. And of course, it's not that the government does anything concrete in this matter until the final decisions are taken by the Storting. But as it is described in the case presented, a work is done in relation to Statoil, so that one has a basis to proceed with this matter when the Storting has taken its final decision. So it's like Statoil is in a different situation than the other oil companies. Whenever Statoil is involved, one should do two things at the same time. One is going to sell parts of the day to them, and one wants to introduce private capital into the company, and for us it's important that one takes it in that order. That's why we think it's natural to have conversations with Statoil to secure progress in the matter. But it's not like it's been produced in the media, that Statoil has the option to choose from the top shelf. It's like parts of the parts of the land that the state has are for sale, and it's the state itself that decides what parts it wants to sell, not the different oil companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e315	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As I see it, the Ministry's pre-allocation procedure for Statoil will not exactly strengthen the competitiveness of the Norwegian base, nor will it contribute very positively when Norwegian companies go out and claim themselves internationally. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State how much of the remaining 5 pst. should one in his opinion sell to Hydro and the other companies? And will the Council of State consider applying the auctioning principle when selling SAD shares, because it is only this that can make the real values of these shares visible?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e324	It is now the case that the representative, Mr Vaksdal, is dealing with the matter under consideration in the Committee, and the Committee and the Stortinget will later decide on many of the questions he is now asking me. It's hard for me to be specific about what's going to be the end result, and it's hard to be specific about what part Hydro is going to get versus the other international companies, for example. depend on the disposal process you choose. And to answer the last question, I want to evaluate different types of disposal, but it's also of course a question The Storting will have a view of.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e331	There will be follow-up questions – Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e334	So, as previously claimed, the government intends to sell 15 pst. of the shares in Statoil. We see that negotiations are already taking place on this, and there is a lot of evidence that Statoil will in this way secure the 'indophile', i.e. the best areas. Does the Council of State really think this is the right approach? Are these shares to be transferred to Statoil, or in what way, if any, will Statoil pay for them?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e341	I just need to make it clear that this is a case that is being dealt with in the Storting, and it is the Storing that will answer many of these questions and in that way provide a framework for what decisions the Government can subsequently take. But I kind of want to deny that Statoil makes it possible to choose between all the parts of the day that the state has. So in my proposal, the state will keep 80 pst. Of course, we will keep the parts that we think are most important to the state. But to guide the further procedure, there are initiated conversations with Statoil to set values and some other things. And then some of the reasons for these changes that the government is proposing are, among other things. getting more value out of the fields. There is not necessarily a connection between the fields that Statoil wants and the fields that other companies want. But no decisions are taken in this area until the Storting has taken its decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e348	Hilde Frafjord Johnson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e351	In this case, I am concerned with the role of the Storting, because the central point of the discussion is how far the Government should be able to go in its discussions while the proceedings are ongoing in the Committee. The landfill proposal states: ‘Consultations with Statoil on the sale of shares in the EEA will continue in the future’. The wording is ‘debate’. In the media, negotiations have taken place. One thing is tentative discussions about processes and different options for dealing with BEES. Of course, although I had wanted it to not happen, it is possible to do so without prejudice to Storting's handling. But there is something quite different about entering into concrete negotiations on the allocation or sale of concrete shares. Then there is no semantics, then there is a substantive difference, and the mandate is discussion and not negotiation. I therefore want the State Council's assurances – since he says this is primarily media-created – on two things: one is that no negotiations are being made on the sale of concrete shares of DØE while the treatment is in progress, and the other is that a process is initiated as soon as possible in relation to the other companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e361	What the government is currently doing is described in the documents that have been handed over to the Storting, and we are of course going forward in relation to them. It is such that all discussions with other parties involved are carried out on the decisions that the Greatness of the seventh and last must take. When it comes to the other companies, there's no desire for us to keep them on the go and wait. However, there is a limit to capacity in the department, and we have therefore chosen to start with Statoil a little before the others. It doesn't necessarily mean that one ends the negotiations until one starts discussing with the other companies. I feel, at least on the basis of the wording that has been with me, that it has been a goal for the media to create a case of this, for which, in my view, there is no basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e373	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e376	It is, of course, wise for the Council of State to ensure that it is the Stortinget to decide, and that no final decisions are to be made until the Stortinget has stated its intention. But at the same time, when you make discussions of this kind, it's very close to believing that you've been shooting decisions here and given one company the opportunity to position themselves in a completely different way from other companies. Of course, the special treatment provided here has a historical reason that Statoil has a very special place in our oil history, but at the same time, based on all the premises that are otherwise given in what is now the government's new oil policy, it should not continue like that. What is then my question to the Council of State, as an extension of the various questions that have been asked here, is: wouldn't it be wise for the Council of State now to put these discussions on ice, pending that the Storting actually takes the decisions that have been taken? It is described that discussions should be held, but the Stortinget has not signed up and endorsed these discussions mentioned in the Proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e385	So today's discussions with Statoil mean that everyone is aware of the changes that the Storting would have to make. This is a huge reform. The most important information is available, and the work now being done will provide a basis for implementing the final decision of the Stortinge. And then I want to make it clear that part of the purpose of implementing the changes that the Government is now proposing is to get more efficient operation, business benefits and so on, in some fields. It is then that Statoil stands stronger in some fields than the other oil companies do, while Statoil in other areas does not have any interest. So it's not automatically such that these oil companies that want to buy parts of DEATH are busy buying the same parts of DEATH. And as I said, it's the state and not Statoil that to the seventh and last should determine which parts are for sale.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e392	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e395	I'll ask the Minister for Oil and Energy a question. The question of the privatisation of Statoil has triggered speculation in relation to the future location of Statoil’s head office. The headquarters in Stavanger has been of invaluable value to Rogaland and the West, otherwise – directly in the form of jobs and competences, indirectly in the form of all the ringing effects it has brought about. In what way will the Council of State ensure that Statoil's head office is not moved?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e402	To be completely honest, I think this is an entirely out-of-date problem. Stavanger is the most important oil centre in Norway, and it will continue to be – simply because there are the most important institutions in this area, and because it is the natural geographical location due to the resources in the North Sea and the immediate proximity of Stavanger. We want to further develop and protect about Stavanger as the oil town it is. And it's of course that with the owner part of the state will have in Statoil after the proposal that the government has now presented, the issue of location in my view will not be a current problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e409	It's good to hear that the Council of State and the Government here have a wish. It has been raised as a theme, I also understand in the committee – on the phone – by BI professor Arne Jon Isachsen, who warns against believing that the head office will be in Stavanger. He says it's a matter of time when other owners come in. It is also followed up by former editor in Arbeiderbladet, Wiktor Martinsen. If one has opened up for other interests and also has an increasing focus on the rest of the world, will it not be such that increasing the demands for pay will be natural and itself a theme that could mean that the location of the head office will also come into focus?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e416	I don't think so. The changes now proposed by the Government will result in Statoil becoming a more powerful company, and this will improve, and it will strengthen their position as a large company with a base and a starting point in Norway. And so the rules are so that there are minority possibilities to limit such important things. If I am not completely mistaken, it is such that as long as the state owns more than one third of the company, an e.g. do not move parent office out of Norway. And I can't see any other places in Norway that can compete with Stavanger when it comes to the head office of Statoil; Stavanger has been an excellent host town. And I have never heard any wish expressed by any of the people who work or have functions in the oil industry in Stavanger, that the city is not an appropriate place for this type of activity. Nor can I see that the matter we have now submitted will change that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e423	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e426	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. The most important thing we can do now to prevent more bullying and racism, and to make things better with children and young people, is for example. parents shall be able to afford kindergartens and school leisure schemes. It was about word-to-word that the Council of State just said. That is absolutely in agreement with the SV. But that's not the case now, because the municipalities have a huge deficit, and it's largely affected children and young people. Child protection has too little money, child and youth psychiatry has too little money and cultural services are being cut down. I'm sitting here with a newspaper from Oslo that shows that the Children's Court is being swept out of the sports halls for the benefit of corporate sport, which can pay for it. Kids lose the positive and good offers that could help them find a better place in society. Does the Council of State see that the Government, by giving the municipalities too little money, has a co-responsibility for children and young people getting into trouble?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e436	As I said before, both the government and I believe that kindergartens and e.g. school leisure arrangements are entirely central services that should be and that are, in most municipalities. It should also be that the parental payment is such that one does not exclude young people from being in kindergarten because of it. And of course, these are things that we're working on. With regard to the specific issue of the local economy, which is of course also related to this, the municipal sector for this year, by means of the agreement reached here in Stortinget, has received one of the biggest promises made to the local government in very, very many years. And in addition to the real transfers to the local government sector, it was also the case – as Andersen’s representative is well-known – that for the first time in ten years, the government and the Stortinget went in and compensated something in the wage settlement for, among other things. teachers. Then I am aware that it is still such that there are municipalities where the situation is difficult. We now operate and work on the municipal planning for the next year. Of course, I have with me the situation and the descriptions of the situation, but I believe that the promise that the local government sector has received for the current year is a huge promise. I also believe that there are some municipalities that might also need to look at how to prioritise internally. We have municipal autonomy, I think it's very important to call about this, but it's not just to blame for the fact that the municipal structure is altogether like this, because it's also possible to look at the priorities that happen internally in the municipality. And when I see some municipalities like that. do not charge property taxes from the richest in the country, while at the same time cutting heavily, for example. To kindergartens or school leisure schemes, I must say that it is a priority which, at least, I strongly disagree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e445	I note that the Council of State is not now following up the positive signals she gave in the previous round of questions, namely that the Government is now going to do more to ensure that the offers to children and young people are getting better – because these are the measures that we know will work. Among other things, comparisons can be made between the numbers of police budgets that have increased in recent years in relation to measures for children and young people. This has gone a lot in children and young people's disfavor. But will the Council of State now at least take the initiative of a study, so that we can look at the state of action for children and young people in terms of child protection and recreational services, for example, and get a status report on how this is in the municipal sector, so that we can obtain real figures on what is needed and what is needed to improve the situation for children and young people? There is no doubt that the budgetary arrangements have so far been such that when it comes to cutting, measures for children and young people have gone beyond them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e452	This government is doing a lot, also to children and young people, and we intend to do more in the future as well. So there are positive signals that this Government has given and will still give, and of course we will do that now as well. I also said in my main response that we are now working on the municipal scheme for the next year. In this context, of course, we also have with us the offers to children and young people, which are very important not least in a preventive context, there must be no doubt about that. So, of course, we're getting information about how the situation is in the municipalities. This also applies in relation to the offer of children and young people. Here we know that there are great variations between municipalities, and we have to try to make sure that the offer gets better. But it's like we have municipal maritime councils, there are different political parties that govern different municipalities with different priorities. Then we have a common responsibility to ensure that the total transfers to the local government sector are such that Kommune-Norway is able to carry out the tasks we have told them to do. And now I'm working on the municipal planning for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e459	Let's start with a new main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e462	I would like to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy a question. State power has asked for billions from the state to expand on. In a short time, an adjustment from the Government was expected, and it is due to an exciting and important round of this matter in Stortinget. The left wants Norwegian ownership of the legacy of power resources, but there are different ways to ensure this. What ambitions do the State Councils have for the further development of Statkraft? And how dominant is it desirable that a power producer and provider should have in the Norwegian power market?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e471	The government wants to come back to this whole problem complex and discuss it with Stortinget. But it is such that the Storting has given its support to what is governed in Statkraft's strategy, which is based on Statkraft being active and buying part of the Norwegian hydroelectric power plants that are for sale. Otherwise, I think it's a little important when discussing this issue, that a mental pretence is that Norway in the energy context no longer exists, so that Statekraft no longer operates in a Norwegian market, but in a Nordic and northern European market, and of course, there is so that Statekraft – even if they get to carry out all the ambitions they have – will be a small company. While I support the strategy of the Swedish Government and want them to develop further, I also believe it is important to take care of other Norwegian energy companies, regional companies. There should therefore be no contradiction between investing in the regional companies that have built up and allowing Statkraft to invest more capital and thus be able to participate in developments in the Norwegian market. What we know is that very many of those who currently own the power companies are municipalities that now want to sell out, and then I think it is important that there is also a Norwegian operator who has the possibility to participate on the purchase page. What we know is that a lot of the big power companies in Norway have large sacks of money that they want to use in Norway as well, and as a counter-power to that, I think that Statkraft must also have the opportunity to participate in the restructuring of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e480	Government power has when the company's holdings in other companies in which they have decisive influence are included, a share of nearly 40 p.m. of Norwegian power generation. Normally, the limit is set when the competition authorities intervene in relation to a dominant operator. In the EU, both in relation to Spain and in relation to Germany, a limit has been set on how much an operator can become and on how much sales are required. So now Statkraft is going to spend billions expanding. Isn't the Council of State concerned that such a dominant player expands in this way when the consequence can be that one is left without other Norwegian actors who have the strength and strength to compete to take over the other companies that have to come for sale? Because that's exactly what the state council says he wants, namely several Norwegian players, but what's happening now is that State power is becoming so dominant that others lose the opportunity to participate in the competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e487	Here I'm probably a little bit confused in the reality of Kvassheim, but this still allows us to come back to the matter that is being presented by the Government with the first. But it's like comparing Norway with other countries in northern Europe, we have a lot of energy companies, and they're small. In Sweden, e.g. has the largest energy company over 50 pst. of the market, while in Norway, as we see it today, Statkraft has a place between 20 pst. and 25 pst. But in any case, it is obvious that the competition authorities will decide on all the purchases in question, as we have done up to now. So there are authorities in Norway to control that situation. But I think once again we have to do the intellectual exercise that Norway no longer exists, so what we're discussing is whether Norway should have a big company in the North European market or we shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e496	There will be follow-up questions – Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e499	I'm going to continue the intellectual exercise, I'm going to say that Norway also exists in power context, and that it's important to see the huge structural changes we're now facing. There are enormous tens of billions of shares of power in Norway that come for sale in the next few years, and it is important for the Council of State and for the whole of the State and have a mindset and a policy on how to ensure that as much as possible of this becomes Norwegian owned, while ensuring that it does not become one completely dominant owner, because with that dynamics – and that is good – as we now see in Norwegian power generation, it is important that there are competing providers here. My question is: when the Council of State is now going to invite the Stortinget to discuss this, as he expressed himself, does he think about being concrete about how he can contribute instruments to ensure that some of the Norwegian regional units can become real competitors of Statkraft, where Statkraft is now growing at quite fast pace? And I have to say that 20-25 pst. must be the direct ownership of Statkraft, because they own a lot in many other companies as well, which makes them closer to 40 p.p., which is an important amount in terms of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e506	Of course, we have to have a fix on all of these questions, but it's a little important to make it clear that it's the ones that own these companies today, who decide if they want to sell them, and who decides who they want to sell to. And so there are different ways to do this. It's not necessarily the case that one needs to sell for larger units. Local authorities can contribute to mergers and thus participate in and build regional companies. We've seen an example of that. Of course, it's so that we can look at the framework conditions. But if there's capital the issue of debt, I'm a little unsure whether it's going to be right for the government to help regional companies afford to buy up, for example. It's a mine. In any case, we want the Storting to be able to discuss all of these questions, because there are huge changes in the future, and it's important that the Storing has a hold on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e516	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e519	It's a very important thing Left travels today linked to State Power. We are experiencing a state monopoly in the power sector. It's very unfortunate, and it'll also help that the price and the values will fall when there's only one buyer, as we've experienced in too many cases. The Council of State wants to do an ‘intellectual exercise’. Let me challenge him on one more, the clear parallel between Statoil's development and Statkraft's development. Both companies started out as political tools, later developed into more commercial companies and now operate both in an international market. Now we're doing a partial privatization of Statoil. Does not the Council of State not see that the same developments will force State power, both in order for State power to enter the market and collect money and not only put the suction pipe down into the state treasury, but also in order for the company to have the necessary freedom of action in an international market?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e526	I see parallels, but I also see differences. For the Workers' Party, it's very important that it's the public that takes care of the natural resource that the water force is. We want to participate in it differently. So now we see that those who are taking care of public ownership today, the municipalities, want to sell out. We thought it was natural for another public actor to be able to buy some of the parts that are for sale. So that's what we want to do. Otherwise, Statkraft has been discussed in different contexts here in the hall. For example, in the context of last year's budget, the Stortingen decided to convert loans into equity so that State power could be involved in the restructuring that is taking place. That's what we want to do now, and we want to put that matter before the Storting with the first.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e533	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e536	I will ask questions to the Minister for the Environment. Let me congratulate the Minister for the Environment as one of the most creative state councils in the government in order to request fees and unreasonable proposals. What I am thinking of here is the earlier plans of the Council of State to impose noise charges on car tires. Before Christmas, it was about imposing a charge on private parking spaces, which is an infringement of private property rights. And so the last thing was to forbid the building of cabins over 100 m2. This proposal has led to strong protests by a number of municipalities with cabin construction and tourism as a source of income. Why can't the Council of State let the municipalities decide their own areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e543	The debate on the area of cabins and my alleged proposal to help limit the ability of municipalities to decide this is due to a misunderstanding and a derailment of the debate I have wanted to travel. The challenge for us is that we build more and more cabins in this country. They confiscate large areas, and it is important for everyone responsible for planning to address the challenge of how to achieve good development in this area. I have wanted to participate in a debate on what local authorities can do and what central authorities can do. Later today, I get, among other things, the suspension of the Publicly Appointed Plan Law Committee, which has worked on how environmental considerations can be more closely addressed in planning. I see it absolutely as a task for the municipalities to continue to control the development of cabin construction. This should to a large extent be a local responsibility. But it must be a right priority for an Environment Minister to raise a debate on what we can do at national level, not least in terms of encouraging a sensible use of energy in the construction of cabins.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e552	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I realize that the Council of State has gradually moderated some of it in relation to what was the starting point, and that is to a great extent joyous. If the Minister for the Environment is serious about the so-called cabin proposal, in my view, there is more evidence of misunderstanding and envy than common sense. In many cases it is not just about cabins, but about investments made in the local environment to increase tourism and thus also the revenues of the municipalities that have facilitated it. Why can't people be allowed to invest and spend their money on measures that help to boost employment and also the economy in the districts, which the municipalities themselves want?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e559	The Minister for the Environment has not proposed any land restriction on cabins. On the contrary, many municipalities have proposed such an instrument – and why do municipalities do it? They do because they see it as an important tool precisely to get a desired development in cab construction, so that we can take care of the good cabin culture that we have in Norway. Some of the mountain communities may think that they will not get into the situation of the Oslofjord area and large parts of the Southland, where we have built too many cabins in areas that later turn out to be difficult for the public. Cabin construction will remain largely a local responsibility and there will be great opportunities for district municipalities to use it as an instrument for economic development in their own areas. That's the way it should be. But we have major environmental challenges in this area that also need to be addressed, as many municipalities have seen, and which I still think we will have a debate on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e564	The time for the oral question time is now over, and we're going to go to the ordinary question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e569	There will be a lot of changes in the set question list, and the President will show you in the context of the list that has been distributed in his or her seats in the room. The President proposed that the proposed changes in today's Question Time be approved. The President sees it as a matter of fact. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Inger Stolt-Nielsen to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment. Question 6, from the representative Arne Lyngstad to the Minister for Labour and Administration, will be drawn up by the representative Astri Wessel. Question 7, from the representative of Mr Hedstrom to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been removed. Question 9, from the representative Einar Olav Skogholt to the Minister for Health, falls away when the questioner is not present. Question 13, from the representative of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has been removed. Question 14, from the representative Morten Lund to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has been removed. The question will be raised by the representative of Tor Nymo. Question 17, from Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Development as appropriate. Question 18, from the representative Karin Andersen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs as the appropriate representative. Following a request from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, this question is moved to Question 2 to be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Question 19, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, who has been removed. Question 22, from the representative, Mr Hernæs, to the Minister of Justice, falls because the questioner is not present. Question 26, from the representative Randi Karlstrøm to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment as appropriate. Following a request from the Minister for the Environment, this question is moved to Question 16 to be answered by the same Council of State. The question will be raised by the representative of Kari Økland.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e601	This question, from Inger Stolt-Nielsen to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e604	‘I assume that the Prime Minister, like the rest of the country’s population, is concerned about recent information that radioactive waste is to be transported on ships along our long-range and exposed coasts. This can lead to threats to the environment, which we have just feared from Kola, at the shipshavari near the Norwegian coast, creating national crisis conditions. Does the Prime Minister worry that initiatives to ensure better coastal preparedness have come a little late?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e611	It is clear that the Russian plans, as they have been made, to transport radioactive waste along our coast give cause for concern. In view of Russia’s major problems with the treatment of its own nuclear waste, imports of such waste do not appear to be a sustainable solution. The shipment of nuclear waste along our coast represents a risk of radioactive contamination that cannot be accepted. We are now in the process of identifying the actual conditions of these plans. The issue was addressed at the political level with Russian environmental protection authorities at a meeting in Moscow yesterday. In any case, the government will try to prevent imports of nuclear waste into Russia which may affect Norwegian territories and interests. At the same time, we will look at whether existing alert agreements with Russia should be extended to cover, inter alia, the transport of goods. nuclear waste. After the “Cursk” accident last autumn, the Prime Minister had a meeting with the Russian Prime Minister Kasianov. They agreed on mutual commitments on warning and assistance in the event of serious incidents. This was reflected in the political documents of the meeting, and a further follow-up to that agreement is now being carried out. From before, there is also an agreement on warning of tow and other special transports from Murmansk along our coast. The recent shipowners have led the Government to consider a number of current measures to improve coastal safety and preparedness. This will include, in particular, preventive measures such as: better monitoring and alerting increased use of so-called fairway measures, such as labelling and required navigational leaders, better navigational charts extension of territorial waters from 4 to 12 nautical miles, to which the Minister of Foreign Affairs comes back in a question later in this Questionnaire In terms of preparedness for acute pollution, we will look at how the country's overall resource use can be improved, so that we get the most operational and effective preparedness. The government will come back to the Storing with proposals in these areas. In my opinion, there is no basis for saying that these initiatives are too late in relation to the possible transport of nuclear waste along the coast. We are following up the matter with the Russian authorities, while implementing a number of measures to improve our coastal preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e639	As the Council of State knows, a number of questions have been raised during the last few weeks related to coastal preparedness and the ability to monitor off-shore traffic and early warning by the relevant authorities. The size is well known that the Government intends to present a government note with proposals for action. I hope that the Government understands that the opposition is concerned about the shortcomings that have been revealed in recent times, and that proposals that only describe the need for further investigations and the establishment of selection and presentation in future budgets are not satisfactory compared to the present situation. Because that's now action is required. The last two budget proposals and defence opinions indicate that something must have been planned or investigated in order to meet the need for improved coastal preparedness at an earlier stage. Can the Minister provide a detailed description of what will contribute to better coordination of monitoring resources according to the propositions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e649	The government has also answered a number of questions in recent Question Time related to our efforts to improve preparedness. We want to strengthen prevention, surveillance and coastal preparedness. I assume that the representative, Mr Stolt-Nielsen, agrees that this will require budgetary follow-up. Of course, it also requires proposals, which we will come up with. One very concrete proposal I would like to address is how we are going to use the radar data of defence more strongly in civil protection as an important element of prevention. Another is better marking of the master of the navigation. And a third is the actual preparedness, where we have just received concrete proposals from the State Pollution Control Agency on how to make better use of the equipment we have, the need for better training of crews to be prepared, and also more exercises.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e656	I must be allowed to ask the Council of State when she can expect these proposals to be realised. We have heard of proposals that we have heard that there are plans. However, it is not materialised in concrete measures. These are all new investigations, new plans, proposals. But the proposals are not coming. And while we've seen this crisis situation that we've got on the coast, we fear what can happen when we get this deadly nuclear transport along our coast. So when can we expect an overall commitment that will come concrete and be undertaken within a certain time?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e666	First of all, I would like to say that the last two accidents we've seen along our coast, both the accident of «Green Ålesund» outside of Haugesund and later the accident of «John R» in North Norway, have shown that we have a good preparedness. It worked when we needed it. Nevertheless, there will be a need for strengthening, and the proposals we have addressed will be implemented immediately, many of them, linked to monitoring and related to prevention. But we also need to go through concrete ways of strengthening preparedness, and these are proposals that will be expressed beyond this year and will have a budgetary follow-up in the next budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e674	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘The Leknes Pilot Terminal has been costed 11 million. I was done 4 years ago. According to the Evening Item on 22 January 2001, the facility is now closed for landing fish from third countries because EU inspectors are not satisfied with their work on the site. According to ESA's plans, the installation is to be inspected every five years. Due to the closure, Russian trawlers are now landing their catches in EU countries. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs understand that this decision is unreasonable and will he take the initiative to resolve the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e683	I agree with the representative, Mr Enoksen, that such a case is presented in the article in the evening post, it seems unreasonable. Norway has agreed to introduce strict EU controls on fish and fish products from outside the EEA area in order to ensure safe sea food. We have thus achieved that no veterinary border controls are carried out on the export of Norwegian seafood to the EU. Norwegian marine nutrition thus avoids delaying procedures and detours. The inspectors of the Director of Fisheries shall carry out veterinary border checks on all batches of fish imported from third countries. The EFTA Surveillance Authority – ESA – has accepted that such fish should continue to be delivered directly to Norwegian fishing establishments, if the establishment itself holds a so-called control centre that complies with EEA requirements. In order to approve such a control centre, certain premises and facilities shall be provided for the inspectors of the Directorate of Fisheries. The EEA rules for such control centres have not yet been clarified. As a result, ESA initially practiced the requirements less strictly in Norway than the EU control body did in the EU. If the legislation is not practised in the same way in the EFTA/EEA countries as in the EU, we could risk the EU reintroducing veterinary border controls against Norway. It appears that ESA has strengthened the requirements in order to avoid discrimination between different countries in the EEA territory. It is not appropriate for Norway to require less stringent veterinary checks than in other EEA countries. This could raise concerns about food safety and thereby damage the Norwegian seafood industry. Following an ESA inspection in February last year, ESA concluded that eight control centres of Norwegian seafood establishments had to be closed. The Norwegian authorities opposed the closure of three of these because it was considered that ESA had not provided sufficient professional reasons for closure. However, for the control centre of the Lofot Terminal, a number of specific deficiencies were identified in the ESA report, so that Norwegian authorities could hardly argue against the closure of this centre. From the turn of the year, the Directorate of Fisheries was given the other authority to approve some control centres on its own. This could reduce the period of approval, inter alia: in the case of the lofot terminal, when the conditions of this control centre are restored.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e700	I record that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has doubts about the production in the evening post. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that of course there is no requirement for a less stringent veterinary border control in Norway than in other EEA/EFTA countries. It should be lacking – it would raise doubts as to whether Norwegian products meet targets. But it's not just from Lofoten that kind of messages have come in. After I raised this question, there have been enquiries from several parts of the country where the same problem has been encountered, among others. from Averøy, where it is claimed that the inspectors were most concerned with the size of the wardrobe and office doors, and not with the physical premises. Similarly, compared with the Lofot terminal, it was claimed that there was a dissatisfaction with office and shower facilities for EU inspectors, who are therefore to be visited every five years. If this is the case, and if also the messages that have come from e.g. Averøy, keep going, I have to say that it is completely unreasonable that you should make that kind of demands for terminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e705	I do not know all of the cases that Enoxsen now mentioned. What I can say is that it wasn't just a shower for women, but it was listed six points after the inspection at the Lofot terminal. I have to say that it has to be better now to do something about the six points than to make a big procedure out of it with the danger that we get other problems compared to ESA. This list of six points should not be so very difficult to get fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e710	From my point of view, I would like to maintain that what has emerged here is splinters. What must be important is to have legislation that ensures product quality in a satisfactory way, and that no Norwegian authorities accept that a level of detail would almost make it impossible to obtain approval of Norwegian production facilities and Norwegian plants, as it may seem that there are problems here. My final question will therefore be: Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs follow this question closely to ensure that we have a regulatory framework that can be observed by Norwegian operators in the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e715	We have done so, as we have not accepted three of the complaints that came. But when you take up the Lofot terminal in concrete terms, you should go into these points. And it's not just tile nailing -- one of the points was, for example, that there was only storage room for frozen goods and not other goods. It is very important that you have proper storage space for the goods that you have to check. Since Enoxen has been very concerned with food security, I assume that it also applies to fish, and not just agricultural products. So we haven't found that you could go into this particular case that Enoxen has done, but in other circumstances, we've thought it's been tile nailing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e720	We go to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e726	This question, from Karin Andersen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e729	‘The Minister for Protection of the Environment stated in regular Question Time on 24 January 2001 that the Government has decided to consider the issue of an extension of the territorial border in order to improve coastal safety. Could the Council of State provide a description of the new possibilities which this provides for intervention in relation to today vis-à-vis ships using their right to free passage in the territorial waters under applicable international law?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e736	In the investigations carried out so far, the extension of the Norwegian territorial waters from four to twelve nautical miles in particular could have an impact on the environment and safety of the sea. The environmental protection measures currently provided for in territorial waters — in the context of the right to ‘innocent transit’ — could then be enforced in a wider area, further off the coast. Enlargement will also provide better opportunities for the control of foreign ships and for the application of Norwegian legislation in efforts to preserve the marine environment and to prevent pollution. The opening of Norwegian sovereignty in a geographically larger area also improves the possibility of intervention earlier in the event of a breach of Norwegian law. Possibility of enforcement against foreign ships — including in the area between four and twelve nautical miles — will include: could be an advantage where there are serious grounds for suspecting that a ship in the territorial waters has carried out illegal discharges, such as: of oil. In such cases, a territorial waters of only four nautical miles would mean that the ship could quickly be located outside the Norwegian jurisdiction area, which in practice often means that the Norwegian authorities have been prevented from intervening. Furthermore, the right of innocent passage does not prevent the establishment of required navigational and traffic separation systems in the territorial waters, whether four or twelve nautical miles. An extension opens the way for the introduction of required navigational conductors to 12 nautical miles from the coast of ships presenting a potential pollution hazard. Under international law, tankers, nuclear-powered ships and ships loaded with nuclear or other substances which are inherently dangerous or harmful may be required to limit their passage to such masters. Let me, however, stress that an extension of the territorial sea from four to twelve nautical miles in itself will not solve all problems. The substance will continue to be the content of the legislation which may be applicable to shipping. A review of the enlargement issue therefore requires a review and is likely to update the legislation in accordance with international standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e749	I thank you for your answer. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stresses the need to be able to intervene early and to be able to enforce legislation. This assumes that you have an up-to-date device to intervene with. It doesn't help to expand the limit if you're not up-to-date in that area. Then there is a need for more effective coastal surveillance than what we have today. I would therefore like to ask, as there has been some confusion about this, the Council of State who has an overview and responsibility for the fact that coastal surveillance capacity is in place and how this is to be coordinated.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e756	Now this question went over to the question of something quite different than what the question originally did. The question to me is about the territorial waters. That's what I'm dealing with, and I've answered what positive sides an extension of it might have. But in terms of total preparedness, of course, the government has an overall overview of it. In addition, the Minister for the Environment replied to this in a previous question. The government is now looking at how the total resources of the state can be used even better, so that we get the most operational and effective preparedness. I also refer to what the Minister for the Environment said, that we also have a reasonable operational and effective preparedness, but it can, of course, be improved, also in the context of an extension of the territorial waters and possibly with new Norwegian legislation adapted to international standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e763	I think it must be fairly clear from the questions that have been raised today that this is about the safety of our coastal areas, and that that is the main point of the question. That the Government has chosen to send the Minister of Foreign Affairs to answer the question, I have to take note, but there is a need for the Storting to clarify who is responsible, and that the capacity is in place, which has been the important thing here. Then I get to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs another question. In his reply, he points out that we should have required sailing managers and e.g. traffic separation. Then I have to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: what is the reason why this has not been necessary before? For you have seen the picture that shipping is increasing, and that transport has become more and more risky. What is the reason why you have waited so long to address this important question?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e770	The majority is probably aware that it is the Foreign Minister who is dealing with the issue of the extension of Norwegian territorial waters. That's why I'm here to answer that. As for the question that now came, I should not go into it too much, but you can ask the previous government why it has not been mentioned before. I find that there is now a need to take it up, and that's exactly what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e777	Then we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e783	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: ‘The Minister of Defence has informed Stortinget that the coastal radar chain contributes to the overall maritime surveillance in order to allow defence commands to form a picture of the activity, giving priority to the presence of vessels as necessary. We have now been informed that because of the change, the defence must now concentrate its investment on its core areas. Is it so to understand that monitoring our sea areas is not to be regarded as a core task of defence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e792	Coastal surveillance is and will remain a central task for the Defense. The monitoring of our very large maritime areas of interest is very demanding. To this end, the Defense uses considerable resources. The presence of ships from all over the Navy is an important factor in this context. Air defence maritime patrol aircraft, helicopters onboard coastguard vessels and inlet aircraft for the Coast Guard also contribute significantly to providing an overview of the activity in our sea areas and along the coast. Furthermore, defence commands receive important information from radar installations and satellite images. In addition to these instruments, we have more passive surveillance through the Defence Coastal Surveillance System, COSS, such as the one in question. based on ship-based notifications and other self-reporting. In other words, the coaster is just one element in the surveillance. Together, these sources contribute to the establishment by defence commands of an overview of the activities of the territorial sea and beyond and, on this basis, to the overall tasks of sovereignty and crisis management. As I said in my answer in Question Time on 17 January, the coastal radar chain in South Norway is approaching the end of its lifetime, while the northern chain is in a much better condition. It will therefore be necessary to assess the renewal of the radar systems. Coastals were established for a time with completely different security policy framework conditions. NATO has also contributed significantly to the financing of radars. In today’s security policy situation, the military operational need for this type of surveillance has been reduced. Investment in new coastal radar chains must, of course, be assessed against other operational needs and against the other elements which also contribute to the monitoring of marine areas, and how these could be better exploited. The defence’s ability to handle sovereignty and operate crisis management will in the future be at least as important as today. Good maritime surveillance and, not least, appropriate accident-related warning systems are now at the focus of the coordination work recently undertaken by the Minister for the Environment, and where several departments are now involved, which she also touched on in her answer to a question in the Questionnaire earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e805	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand from the Minister's reply that we can agree that maritime surveillance is an essential basis for the defence's execution of the mandate. Two weeks ago, the Minister of Defence was asked what was the cause of the diverging explanations from the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Command North Norway. The Minister then indicated that opinions given by a local war captain cannot be relied on. I would like to remind you that this local war captain gave these statements in an official maritime statement. On the same day, it also appears in the VG that the Defence Command system contains the same technical capacities as the Coastal Traffic Monitoring System. Is it so to understand that the Minister still disagrees with the Defence Command on what resources the Defence Command has available?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e812	No, I don't think so. At least I have no reason to say yes to it. What I answered was that the fact that a local officer in the defense says what he can use his capacity for, not necessarily means that he should use his capacity for it. He is subject to a command chain in the Defense that consists of that he himself does not describe his duties. It's up to others to decide. I take a certain reservation in the direction of saying that because the Maritime Defense has a lot of command and because the Coast Guard has a lot of command, they can be inserted right where the captain wants to put them in. They must be part of a system and, in this context, coastal surveillance must also find its place among the other tasks of maritime defence. Nothing of what he has said is wrong, but the description of the officers' duties overall in the defense is not left to the individual captain.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e817	I thank you again for the answer. Finally, I have a few short questions. What is the reason why, up to now, there have been wide-ranging answers to the questions raised about the defence’s ability to monitor traffic across the coast and to inform the relevant authorities as necessary? Could this be due to a misunderstanding of the concepts of traffic monitoring that fall under the responsibility of the Coastal Agency, and maritime surveillance or coastal surveillance that the Minister himself has stated is the responsibility of the Defence Department? Or is it only because of the concern that the defence will be assigned new tasks in an already needed economic situation? With regard to the situation in Kosovo, we have been informed through the media about the lack of preparedness related to the involvement of the defence in Kosovo. Is it in more than these two cases that the Storting has not been informed by anything other than the media?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e826	I do not fully understand what the representative means by the supplementary question. But, of course, there is a very broad need for coastal surveillance, how many departments and many agencies must contribute. Through the meetings I have had with state councils dealing with related areas, we have found no basis for any misunderstandings or misunderstandings. It's about better coordinating existing resources to get more out of it. Something more conflict and crisis than it is not. There are no crackdowns in this area, but there are issues about better coordination of resources based on the resources that we have. It's that simple. There's no mystery, there's nothing to clarify. It's about a spatula to make better use of the resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e834	My question goes to the Minister of Defence: ‘The defence has started working to identify the reason why many employees of Rødbergodden have been quickly and quickly affected by cancer. It is natural to leave behind those who have died of cancer, and others who have had connection to the foresight, feel anxiety and thus need information. How quickly and in what way will the Defence respond to the survivors and to those who have had their way through the foresight?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e843	The information generated by the latent period of time is alarming, and the defense will do its utmost to bring the facts to the fore. I can assure you that the defense wants to get to the bottom of this case and do everything necessary to ensure a good and safe working environment in the future. The marine defense is now in the process of examining the specific matters at Rødbergodden and Meløyver. However, the effort to provide all the necessary data and quality assurance will take some time. It is in one case that this important to make sure that all relevant information is provided before any conclusions are drawn. It will also be necessary to draw on external and failed competences. The survivors will be informed of the work currently in progress. Maritime defence will also launch a major pilot project, consisting of a work environment monitoring, to provide sufficient data to elucidate any link between the working environment and disease. This study will not only focus on cancer, but will also address other health problems that marine defence employees may have experienced as a result of the service. Both the Cancer Register and the Occupational Medicine Department at the University of Bergen have agreed to participate in this work. What measures will then be taken depends on what the studies will reveal. Proposals on how to deal with the matter when the facts are clear are under ongoing review. I can therefore not now give a more specific answer as to what kind of follow-up might be relevant. However, there should be no doubt that the defence wants full transparency in the matter and that the personnel concerned will receive the necessary information when facts are available.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e859	I thank the Minister for a very positive response. There has been a great deal of interest in the local media and eventually in the national media for this matter, and I think the way the marine defence has handled it is very positive. I agree with the Minister of Defence that it is important to get the necessary information before drawing any conclusions on this matter. The survivors will be informed of the work currently being undertaken, and the Minister for Defence also says that the personnel concerned will be provided with the necessary information when facts are available. My question then is: Will they leave the same information as the personnel involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e866	Yes, I find that natural. I am pleased that the representative is satisfied with the answer so far. It's clear that a lot now lies in the further follow-up. I have good reason to believe that the Maritime Defense Agency, which also rightly complimented the representative for handling so far, together with the relevant professional bodies, medical and otherwise, has a serious work going on that will function as intended, so that we can best monitor this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e871	With such a positive answer, I do not need to ask any more follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e879	I would like to ask the Minister of Labour and Administration the following questions: ‘In connection with the construction of the new Rikshospital, 15 million were used. crowns for artistic decoration. Unfortunately, several of the decorations were left in the old hospital. Why wasn't an estimated $200,000 of this sum used to move with these, thereby making better use of the money?'
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e888	Before I respond specifically to the question from the representative of Bredvold, I would just like to briefly remind you that both the scope and content of the art in the new Rikshospital were planned and decided in a separate selection of decorations. Overall, there is also a great diversity in the art of the new Rikshospitalet – which corresponds well to the character of the building. It's characterized by areas of very different size, design and function. What about the considerable art collection from the old Rikshospitale? When moving from the old hospital, most of the older art was taken to the new Rikshospitalet, but not all. The representative, Mr Bredvold, pointed out that an estimate is now available of approx. 200,000 kroner for dismantling a large remaining piece of art, and believes that this is a relatively modest amount, compared to the 15 million. kr which has been used in total for the artistic decoration of the new Rikshospitalet. I first got acquainted with the matter in mid-January and immediately asked for a detailed explanation from Staatsbyggen. In his answer, State Building points to, among other things, that, in connection with the Pilestredet Park project, they have been helpful in getting the remaining works of art registered and evaluated. Something has already been taken care of, while something has been considered difficult and very expensive to bring down for storage. As I understand the statement from Staatsbyggen, this has, among other things. has been the case with the current glass decoration of the artist Finn Christensen. Should it now become relevant to change the previous decision, state buildings can of course be helpful in carrying out an acceptable management of the decoration in question. However, in the opinion of the State, this will require the necessary funds to be made available for the purpose. I find the answer from Stadsbygg uplifting and believe, as the representative Bredvold, that it would be regrettable if this work of art were to be lost because of a lack of money. I am therefore initially prepared to make a positive financial contribution to resolve this matter in a reasonable way. However, I would like to remind you that any proposal for a solution involving the possible relocation and re-entry of the new Rikshospital must be presented and discussed with the management of the Rikshospital before a final decision can be taken in that direction. I will not, of course, oppose a possible solution based on private initiatives, if these contribute to the preservation of the work of art in a way that can benefit the public in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e911	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I interpret positively on the occasion of the case, by saying that the Council of State, when he became aware of the matter, asked for a detailed explanation. I also thank you for the positive in this answer. I don't know what this work of art is worth in crowns and ears, but I'm absolutely sure that there has been a significant increase in value, and that the value is great in relation to what it costs to move it. In addition, this is a work of art that is very time-typical, both in terms of expression and in terms of technique, and absolutely conservationable for that reason. I also see in the reply to the Council of State that he does not ignore the fact that it may be private coming on the track and taking over this. I think that's okay, too. The most important thing is that these artworks are taken care of in retrospect. But back to the question itself — it’s about the government’s use of public funds. So here you could get a lot of decoration for a relatively reasonable price.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e922	The $15 million. kr which was set aside for the artistic decoration of the new Rikshospitalet, has been used and distributed by the selection of decorations. There has not been any prioritization of this work of art. I think we should have such respect for the work of the selection committee that we leave it. Then we'll try to solve the remaining challenge in the best possible way, both for the value of the artwork itself as a work of art, and perhaps also to contribute to further decoration, either by the new Rikshospitale, another state institution or private institutions. At least we're going to be positive trying to contribute to a reasonable solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e927	I thank the Council of State for a positive response.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e935	This question, from the representative Arne Lyngstad to the Minister of Labour and Administration, will be raised by Astri Wessel.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e938	I will ask the Minister for Labour and Administration the following questions: ‘The government has started to modernise the public sector. Several state agencies are reviewing their tasks and structure. The public debate shows that the institutions think very differently about the regional structure. This may create difficulties for cooperation between state agencies and between these agencies and municipalities. How will the Government coordinate the regional organisation of state agencies?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e947	The government is currently working on the question of choice of solutions for the division of tasks between administrative levels. The aim of this work is to contribute to good and efficient management, where we can gradually transfer resources from administration to service provision. Another important objective is to strengthen municipalities as a political institution and service provider by providing municipalities with more space for action and tasks. This work is an important part of the Government's renewal programme. The government will present a big message on the matter in ours and therefore invite the Stortinget to a wide debate on both the division of tasks and forms of cooperation between the levels of government. One of the issues that arises in this context will be how the State organises its activities at regional level. The State has a significant business at this level. Regardless of the future division of tasks between municipalities, county councils and the state, we need to ensure that this organisation takes place in a sensible way. Good internal state coordination is important. At the same time, the state's relationship with the municipal sector must provide a basis for good dialogue and interaction. It's true that state agencies think something different about their regional structure. At the same time, we must recognise that the tasks of the agencies are different and that they have different needs for presence at regional level. While some agencies will be served with larger regional units than today’s counties, others will have opposite needs. There are no simple and general solutions here. It is necessary to build the organisation on some principles. I am of the opinion that an important principle must be that the regional state agencies should follow it at all times. The consideration of e.g. the coordination of State policies vis-à-vis the local government sector warrants this. I think it would be unwise, however, to squeeze as many regional states as possible into one common solution. But at the same time, I am sure that states that have significant inter-contacts and similar tasks that are largely addressed to the municipalities need to co-operate much better than today. I think there'll be a lot to earn from this, not least for the municipalities. The work on this matter is a priority task and will initially be followed up by a thorough review of the regional central government. The state has to go ahead in the renewal work and show the willingness to clean up its own house.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e960	I thank you for your answer. I agree with some of the principles and objectives outlined by the Minister. Nevertheless, I would say that I am concerned about the processes that are going on, because I am afraid that decisions will be made without an overall assessment. I know that the Plan Law Committee today is presenting its partial investigation, where they among other things. it is likely that there is a strong need for binding regional planning. I also know, as the minister pointed out, that it is working on a large-scale report on the division of tasks between the state, the municipality and the county. I would like to stress that the directly elected level, the county council today, should be responsible for tasks that require judgement. Today, several such tasks have been added to the county and state agencies. I would like to ask the Minister if it would not be right and wise to await the Storting's processing of this big message before carrying out thorough processes and making changes in the state agencies as well. Or should the Storting not be given an opportunity to make an overall assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e969	I can assure the representative that the Government will take a decision on the basis of an overall assessment, underpinning the decisions taken by society and its users. Much of what will be the future development at the regional level, the relationship between the different levels of government, will just be determined by the big picture that will be presented to the Biggest on task-sharing. Then, as a result of that process, one will come to the final organisation of state agencies. It has to be accepted that there are processes, investigations and discussions about the future also in the state agencies, but I can assure the representative that no final decisions will be taken here until the Stortinget has had the opportunity to say its own about the final division of tasks between the levels of government in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e976	I thank you for that answer, it seemed very wise and correct. I would like to repeat, however, that I am concerned about the processes that are taking place. I see that the organisation of the public sector and also of local democracy around the country is one side of what is important to get a development across the country, and to get a good value creation. In this context, there is talk of the relocation of jobs requiring knowledge and competence, and the decommissioning and coordination of the public sector will result in the possible need for skills being transferred from the districts. I would like to ask if not a solution can be to lay down some directorates and distribute the tasks that are currently in the directorates, to today's county.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e985	The basis for the future division of tasks must be the needs of users. It must be a guide for the municipality, for the county and for the state when planning the future administration. How, through the administration, are we going to get the best possible service output for users? Then the answer to that must be crucial to the future organisation of which we decide. I am aware that some of the arrangements that will be necessary to propose will mean that the state on the other hand must also be willing to move out businesses. It is a problem that the Government is very concerned about, and all the departments will seek to implement in cooperation with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e995	This question, from Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister of Finance, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Administration on behalf of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e998	I have a question for the Minister of Labour and Administration to answer on behalf of the Minister of Finance: ‘Annual statistics from the Eastfold customs district show a strong increase in the seizures of meat products. Due to a reduction in meat consumption in European countries with cow disease, criminals are tempted by large profits by smuggling uncontrolled risk meat. It is estimated that 600 tonnes of illegally imported meat are consumed in Norwegian restaurants. The smuggler's meat can be what gets the cow's cow to the country. What measures will the Government take to reduce meat smuggling?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1007	It is true that customs control statistics on seized meat products are increasing. In 1998, the customs authorities seized over 31 tonnes of meat products at the border, over 55 tonnes in 1999, and over 67 tonnes in 2000. In addition, customs controls have also revealed a not insignificant amount of meat smuggling. The customs authorities are aware of the negative developments and therefore use more and more resources to detect meat smuggling. The risk of developing Creutzfeldt-Jakob syndrome after eating meat infected by cow disease is something the government looks very serious about. The risk of other diseases, such as: salmonella, and not least the significant avoidance of fees, means that the detection of meat smuggling becomes an important and priority task for Customs in the future. In this respect, I would like to mention that the Ministry of Finance is currently considering a proposal to increase the penalties for smuggling in general. I would also like to stress that the Customs Authority will continue its cooperation with the industry and other agencies such as the police, the Tax Directorate and the State Food Administration as part of the fight against smuggling. In addition to that, I can add that I do not understand the ethical standard that the restaurants have, which resells to the consumer meat that they demonstrably know is smuggled in and not checked. They should not have the opportunity to continue their business.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1018	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This with cowhood poses new challenges for all Western European countries. We are facing a whole new situation, although Norway has a good starting point. I would say that the control of live animals is good in Norway, but it can certainly be improved too. We have the veterinary agreement within the EEA, which gives a useful control both at the place of origin and at the place of destination, and we have third country imports with border controls, etc. However, there is just now the possibility of increased smuggling of meat products because in some European countries consumption increases have been reduced by up to 50 pst, and those who are cellar rings can see a significant profit potential in dumping such meat, for example. in Norway. These are new issues. And those who are out at the restaurant, for example. Here in Oslo, they think they're eating clean meat. So what else do you want to do to improve and increase that control?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1023	Of course, all controls can be improved and all authorities that have supervisory powers over these industries, in addition to the Customs and Charges Directorate, are very concerned with improving their actions. But let me make it clear that no state control and supervision agency can take over the responsibility of the individual who introduces and resells this product, when they commit such a criminal act. So it's quite obvious that both the penalties for such smuggling and the follow-up of those taken for such smuggling must also be part of this fight. It is the criminals who are initially responsible, not the state's control authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1028	There's probably a lot of restaurants that they can do themselves, for example. to inform about the origin of the raw materials. Customers can also become a little more critical and ask about the origin of the meat they eat. But what many say is that today's control is too weak, and those who want to trick themselves away can easily deal with it in a way that makes it easy to avoid consequences. Doesn't the Council of State mean that we need to keep working on this in order to achieve a better deterrent effect for those who want to be cellar rings – they can be smugglers and restaurateurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1033	That is what I said – we will continue to work with all the supervisory and supervisory bodies we have, in order to improve, so that we can take care of the interests of consumers as best we can. Consumer awareness is also necessary, but the consumer will always be dependent on the answers given. And a criminal who takes the freedom not only to produce, but also to serve potentially infected food, will hardly give the correct answer to a question from a consumer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1041	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The foreign student was established on 1 January 2001. Many cases have been sent from the Ministry of Justice and are awaiting a decision, including the case of a woman in Valle. Her case has been thoroughly illuminated for a long time and was promised before the New Year. When can the case be expected to be completed for the benefit of a suffering person?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1050	Foreign administration is now reorganised as known. Under the Foreign Affairs Act, the Foreign Office is now deciding on all complaints in foreign affairs. Nemda is a stand-alone, court-like appeal body, administratively governed by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. I can neither instruct you to interpret law, execute judgment or make decisions in individual cases, including that specific individual cases should be given priority over other matters. This also applies in relation to the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. The political governance of individual matters in the foreign field must now be governed by law, regulation and general priorities. All enquiries concerning applications or complaints to decisions under the Foreign Affairs Act — or questions about when an answer to an application or complaint will be available — must now be addressed either directly to the Foreign Affairs Directorate or to the Foreign Affairs Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1057	This is not a matter of any kind. It's been going on for a long time. It is a suffering person in our country who is asking for the help she knows benefits. She has been treated in the past by a person from Sri Lanka, but it needs treatment for longer than the three months that you can get, in order to get lasting benefit from it. Therefore, the application for a residence permit is limited to two years. It's not about anything anymore, because if the treatment doesn't work then you can't do anything more. These include: a unanimous local authority in Valle that will find a solution to the situation of this woman. The municipality has announced the position without receiving any applications, and it guarantees a job contract for two years to a person who happens to be living in Sri Lanka and who is willing to do the job. His family will be left in the home country. There must be room for this? Why can't the Council of State cut through when this case has occurred long before the Foreign Affairs Department got started and it's apparently still not on its feet?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1062	I cannot decide on the specific matter, nor will I comment on it. According to the Storting's own decision, it is from 1 January, as I explained in my first response, so that the matter has to be decided – if this is a complaint – in the Study of Foreign Affairs. And I have no authority to instruct in individual matters, nor in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1067	It was 10 months since this application was sent, and every day is a suffering for him. The same case was raised on 18 October in the fall, and then the Council of State replied that she wanted to look at the legislation on labour immigration, yes she said that the work is «in progress». It's been a long time since October 18th. I must then ask: what must be done, as the Council of State sees it, in order for such a matter to be resolved?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1072	As I said, the single thing I can't say anything about. Enquiry must be addressed to the Department of Foreign Affairs. With regard to the general legislation on labour immigration, with which I can do something, it is the case, as I also informed of earlier today, that the Government will very soon come back with a proposal for simplification in relation to work permit and immigration. We're working very hard on it, and we're also coming back to Stortinget with suggestions if necessary, and it won't take long.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1087	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1093	I will be allowed to ask the Minister of Health the following questions: ‘25. On October 2000, I asked the Minister of Health a question about the medicine Celebra. Reimbursement has been requested on 30 March 2000, but the response has not yet been received. In October 2000, the Minister of Health replied that the deadline was about to expire, and that the matter had not been resolved. It is clearly not yet, and the 90-day period has expired too far. Will the State Council now take an initiative towards the State Medicines Agency in this matter, so that the pharmaceutical company receives an answer to its application?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1102	When the representative asked questions about this matter on 25 October last year, I expressed my dissatisfaction that the processing of the application had taken so long. I explained that the delay was largely due to the way in which the procedure has been organised, but that this has later changed so that the prerequisites for complying with the 90-day deadline have now been improved. At the same time, I indicated that the matter should be prioritised so that any conclusion on opening up so-called compulsory reimbursement could be promoted in the revised 2001 national budget. The opinion was that this matter should be resolved at the beginning of December last year. However, at the end of November, the State Medicines Agency received new information on Celebra which could change the health economic evaluation used. It was therefore necessary to obtain further information from the manufacturer. These are information and claims relating to competitive relationships between different medicinal products and manufacturers of medicinal products, which trigger transparency and the right to comment by the parties concerned before final decision is taken. Such feedback was received at the beginning of January and the State Medicines Agency will take decisions on this basis in the near future. The pharmaceutical companies concerned have been kept informed of the procedure on an ongoing basis, including the reason for the delay. The delay is regrettable, especially in the light of the long time since the application was made. However, I have reason to believe that the State Medicines Agency will now complete the procedure in the near future. The conclusion of my reply in October is therefore still at hand. If, after an overall assessment, it is possible to recommend compulsory reimbursement, this means that the matter will be referred to the Stortinget in the revised national budget in 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1115	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is gratifying that the Minister of Health has then made the pressure to do so. But I have to be allowed to comment a little on that, because the State Medicines Agency put the matter at risk, was a contribution to the case from a competitor on 30 November. Furthermore, on 5 January, a fax came from SLV, where these recordings from the competitor were commented on. If you stop at the time of the days until 5 January, you have missed the deadline by 207 days. If you only stop until 30 November, the deadline is exceeded by 179 days. What's the point of the question is to put in place a system in the Medical Products Agency that makes us not get up in such situations. Does the Council feel confident that this will not happen in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1122	The delays referred to here are very regrettable, I have previously stated that in Stortinget and still do so. They have mainly had their cause in an organisation of proceedings that has not been appropriate. That organization is, as I have explained, now surrounded, and I feel confident that the prerequisite is now present for us to manage such matters within the deadlines and rules laid down for it. So I also hope to be able to say that this is a part of a cleanup in relation to the way it has been, and that we will not have to have this kind of thing to deal with in this way in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1127	I thank the Council once again for the answer. The reason for the question is not that I am concerned about the different pharmaceutical companies. The reason for this question is the consideration of Norwegian patients who should not be subjected to long-term waiting before they receive a response and may have access to medicinal products from other persons, because there is a ripping trend in this area for patients also in Norway. This is why it is important to, for example: This group of gout patients should be able to access these medicines as soon as possible, if it comes to that conclusion in the department. I would like to conclude with the following questions to the Minister for Health: Will he take the initiative to ask the Agency to investigate whether there are other issues for consideration where the deadline has also been exceeded? Because we need to be aware that Norwegian patients need to have access to the best medicines as soon as possible in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1134	I would first like to stress that it is a medicinal product that is already authorised and that Norwegian patients have access to even today. The condition is that it must be done upon prescription by a doctor on a case-by-case basis and upon application by a doctor. But it is not that these medicines are not available to Norwegian patients. We're talking about another way to make them available, another paragraph that will make them more accessible. I believe that we can claim that we now have an organisation regarding this procedure which means that we should not have such delays as in this case. At the same time, I have to add that we have a proposal for authorisation of medicinal products in Norway that aims to guarantee patients safety that all aspects of their use have been carefully assessed before they are made available in the way this is discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1145	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘The Grand total adopted amendments to the copyright law on 26 May 2000 extending the right to charge fees and charges for the public performance of phonograms. So far, nothing has happened. Will the Council of State continue to work to approve Gramo as a collection and distribution organisation also for the public presentation of phonograms, as stated by a clear majority in the Stortinge?’.» [[(see section 4.4). § 45(b) copyright law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1154	I share the wish of the representative of Greece for an early decision on this matter. But at the same time, I would like to stress that the matter has taken time, mainly because of relations within Gramo. When the laws of copyright and fund law were passed, Stortinget assumed that cooperation had to be established between Gramo and Fund for Performing Artists on the collection of fees and fees. It is the consideration of the users, who are to pay the fee, who are to do so. It has been important for the Ministry that the parties themselves find good, practicable solutions. This is why three meetings have been held in the Ministry where both Gramo, Fund for Performing Artists and the Ministry have been represented to initiate and promote such cooperation. Now it finally looks like the parties are approaching a solution. The law has not been implemented and no regulations have been given because this requires a system of collection and distribution to be agreed between Gramo and Fund for Performing Artists. Even before the legislative amendments were adopted, the Ministry had launched a review of Gramos's guidelines and practices for the distribution of so-called collective funds. This is mainly funds arising from obsolete remuneration claims. In the 1990s, Gramo distributed between five million. NOK 14 million. kr per. years from collective funds. Gramo has also had a practice of pre-allocation to member organisations of non-parent collective funds. Gramo applied for approval on 18 July 2000, but the ministry has not wanted to expand the scope of Gramo's activities as long as it is unclear whether the distribution of collective funds is in line with law and regulation. We have informed Gramo about this, both in letters and in meetings. One element that has complicated the process is undoubtedly the internal conditions in Gramo, which has also been widely covered in the media. It has been natural to await a conclusion on the approval case of Gramo himself has shown the will and ability to solve its problems and clear up its legislation before expanding its scope of action. As I have already mentioned, there has been a positive development in the matter, and I expect that it will get a quick solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1169	I thank the Minister for the answer. I noticed that she strongly emphasizes the internal relationships in Gramo. We are all aware that there has been turbulence both in GramArt and in Gramo, but this has now been brought to order – it happened in the autumn. This big decision was taken on 26 May, and I would like to remind the Minister of Culture that all except the Workers' Party then participated in the remark that Gramo will have a decisive influence on who will claim Gramo's remuneration. Even the Minister of Culture said in the debate that she should of course follow up the decision of the Storting, and that it was natural that Gramo had a crucial role to play in this. As far as the follow-up is concerned, I wonder when the Minister of Culture sees for himself a clarification. And is it the case that the Fund for Performing Artists is directly run by the Department – as it was claimed to me – in relation to the negotiations that are currently taking place?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1180	I will first repeat that, as we see it, Gramo is the one who has made the matter take time. Let me also stress that it has always been my assumption and that the department has assumed that Gramo will have a decisive influence on the collection of the remuneration. This is the result of the Ministry's legislative proposals. When the system of charge for the use of sound recording in the broadcast was introduced in 1989, the organisation Gramo was authorised to collect and distribute the remuneration. Detailed rules are laid down for the collection and distribution of remuneration and that the Ministry shall approve the statutes of the organisation. As a result of the dialogue between the Department and Gramo, Gramo's Board of Directors has decided to discontinue the regulatory use of non-adult funds. This was notified to the Ministry in a letter dated 21 December. The amendment will affect the examination of the application for authorisation, which we immediately expressed to Gramo on 10 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1189	I don't think we're going to get that much longer today. But I think it is interesting that the Council of State so strongly emphasizes that it is internal relations in Gramo that have been the obstacle. Gramo says quite the opposite, that it is reprehensible on the part of the ministry, to respect the clear desire of the majority of the population that it is Gramo who is to be a collection organisation for his own resources. I would encourage the Council of States to step up their personal involvement in this matter and to ensure that the rules and practices that are now at issue are put in order. Because what's happening is that millions of dollars that Norwegian record artists and artists could have access to, don't come to the book because the new code isn't in place. The background for this is that we have been waiting for four to five years to adopt an EU directive. So Norwegian artists and artists have lost millions of dollars on the crookedness of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1196	Let me stress that I fully agree with the representative of Greece that it is about to get a solution as quickly as possible in this matter. I've been involved in the question, and we've had a number of meetings. I am somewhat concerned that Gramo still claims that the department should have some direct management in favour of the fund in this case. We have placed considerable emphasis on the need for agreement between the two parties, and as I see the negotiating climate, such agreement will be imminent.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1206	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘Minister for Children and Family Karita Bekkemelm Orheim has invited TV 2 to move ‘Hotel Caesar’ to a broadcasting time later in the evening. In the past, extensive reactions have been received from, among others: Vice-Chancellors and teacher’s organisations against so-called ‘third-sack television’ in different channels. Does the Council agree with the Minister for Children and Family Affairs and will it be appropriate to address the issue of ‘third-bag television’ in the context of the forthcoming concession treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1215	Let me first say that I don't think TV 2 has had small children as a target group when they launched ‘Hotel Caesar’. We know, however, that among the many viewers who are included in the series, there are many minors – it seems to have been well over 100 000. Like Minister of Children and Family Bekkelem Orheim, I therefore feel that it is unfortunate that ‘Hotel Caesar’ seems to have had more aggressive and violent content. I agree with my colleague, with politicians and with a number of professionals, among others. in the school sector, which considers that the series could receive a later transmission time. There must be little imagination to realize that part of the history of ‘Hotel Caesar’ is not very suitable for children. Having said that, I would like to stress that it is not the Minister for Culture's job to be the editor of TV 2, which my colleague, the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, has not intended to be. But it must be allowed for both of us to have general opinions about the content of what is being broadcast on our television channels. As for the last part of the question from the representative Lånker, about so-called "sack" TV, I would like to stress that "drip bag TV" is hardly a clear concept. I connect series like ‘Big Brother’, ‘Robinson’ and ‘Baren’ – a rather cynical type of television entertainment. The program concept speculates in the primitive instincts of the audience by creating a manipulated reality, where individuals are played against each other and you win by voting out people. For understandable reasons, «third-sack TV» is also not a concept included in the broadcasting code, but in my view it has nothing to do with soap series such as «Hotel Caesar». I am strongly in doubt about the ethical side of these programmes, and I fear that they can stimulate attitudes that we could well have been apart from in our society today. Fortunately, neither NRK nor TV 2 broadcast programs in this category. To the question of whether these types of programmes will be addressed in the context of the forthcoming concession treatment, I would say the following: the instruments we have to influence the programme provision in our public broadcasters are concession terms and broadcasting law. I am negative about discussing this in the context of concession treatment, because in that case it would mean that there would be specific rules for only one television channel. I prefer general regulation that applies to all channels. Such regulation will be in place in a short time through a ban on the transmission of programmes which could seriously harm minor viewers before noon. Twenty-one in the evening. I welcome the recent debate in the media and the initiatives taken by many audiences in relation to broadcasters. As far as I understand, the TV 2 management has now taken the reactions seriously and decided to close it down in ‘Hotel Caesar’, which can seem the most frightening at least. In addition, in order to keep the smallest away from the series, they have adjusted the transmission time to the re-prices of at 1 p.m. 5.30 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. 18, which is children's TV time at NRK. This at least shows that people's reactions have borne fruits.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1232	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree that TV 2 has probably not had small children as a target group for ‘Hotel Caesar’. However, it is a fact that children see to a large extent — it shows surveys — just programs like ‘Hotel Caesar’, and I suppose they are affected by it. But I am pleased to note that the Minister of Culture shares the view of our child and family ministers that this is an unfortunate programme for children. In the case of so-called "sack" TV, which since TV 2 is not – I agree to nuance here – we are afraid that it might be relevant for anyone who wants to compete on the commercial market. My follow-up question is: does not the Council of State feel that it is difficult to be Minister of Culture when she has no influence over these channels, but must leave them to market forces and thus exploit weakly, for example. a child?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1241	Let me say that so that I have expressed a concern about some trends in these programs. But we now have, as I see it, a better chance when regulation, as I have mentioned, comes into place – an EEA directive that prohibits the sending of programmes that can seriously harm minor viewers before noon. Twenty-one in the evening. The government's media administration and the Film Authority will have the task of ensuring that this is followed up. I hope and believe that these tools will enable us to influence that type of program.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1248	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think we should be happy that opinion has woken up, that teachers respond and not least that advertisers respond and stand up on behalf of the children and defend their rights. The question is whether it's enough in the long run, whether we, as politicians, should stay away from all of these things. So now we get an EEA directive that clearly underlines that we want to move programmes that could damage the physical, mental and moral development of minors to a later evening when children don't usually watch TV. I did not understand what the Minister of Culture meant about this point – whether it is so to understand that she believes that this will now also be incorporated into those regulations, so that we get the same legislation in Norway as that in this directive. This will mean that it is not only up to the media administration, which is subject to the Council of State, but it will be part of the Norwegian legislation, where one can clearly try to direct such programmes to other times of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1257	It is obvious that this legislation will be implemented and will apply to our shipments in Norway. It will soon be in place, and we will have to follow it with the greatest attention through the bodies we have to manage and ensure that this is done. Like the representative Lånker, I would like to say that the considerable attention that these matters now receive in the public sector, I think we should accept well and take care of and use as an incentive to be extra careful.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1267	This question, from the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1270	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘In a draft hearing entitled ‘Control of ownership changes in companies, etc. authorising the rearing of edible fish of salmon and trout’, the Ministry of Fisheries suggests that Rogaland and the Skagerrak coast should be considered as one concession area. What is the reason why Rogaland is not a concession area, as the division is intended for the other Western states?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1279	Rogaland and Skagerrak are proposed as a region in proposals for control of ownership changes in companies, etc. which is authorised to breed edible fish of salmon and aure. The reason for this is that Skagerrak and Rogaland alone have too little permission to consider the formation of separate regions as a priority. In the proposal, the region together will have 68 rights. In comparison, Hordaland has 139 permits and More and Romsdal 95 permits. In order to achieve the proposed regional limit of 50 pst. of the number of permissions not to prevent a natural conversion, the regions are grouped together. During the hearing, there were comments on several points in the proposal, in these comments on the regional breakdown. It will be assessed whether this breakdown has unintended consequences before final disclosure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1286	There is agreement that aquaculture is an industry with great potential, including in Rogaland, which the Minister for Fisheries himself has stressed by stating that there is room for new concessions in Rogaland. Rogaland and the Skagerrak coast have different farming arrangements. It applies to both natural conditions, such as: temperature, and that the Skagerrak coast belongs to the North Sea Agreement. Otherwise, the fishing powers are assigned to the county as a region. It also does the different organisations themselves. I find it strange that the difference is so big, so 139 concessions to Hordaland and 51 to Rogaland are used against Rogaland. It should be possible to correct it by giving new concessions. Is this the beginning of another division also in several other areas within the fisheries sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1293	I can confirm that it is also the Government's view that aquaculture is an industry with a high growth potential, and especially in the part of the country we are talking about in this context. I have not in any way wanted to use against Rogaland which holds the number of rights it is now talking about for this county, rather there is a reason that there is an appropriate division of regions, where one now has a link up with others. But at the same time, I have shown that in the hearing that is linked to this proposal, there are objections to this, and that these will be considered in the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1300	I thank you for the answer, both the first and the next. I am happy that the Government underlines the possibilities. I myself live in an area where I have followed developments over time, and where I have seen what this means, both by new jobs directly, by ringing in relation to local processing and service provision and much more that follows. I shall not challenge the Council of State on what is in the term ‘natural transformation’, but only say that as the Centre Party sees it, it is primarily about new possibilities and new developments. Compared to seeing these two states under one, there's a question that's close, and that's: When you view this as one area, is it in that one can move concessions across the state boundaries?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1309	Seeing several areas as part of the same region is primarily justified by appropriateness and is also linked to the number of rights available in each of these regions. However, it is appropriate to provide the basis for the breakdown chosen, together with the assessment of new development opportunities in the aquaculture industry. Against this background, we will consider the outcome of the consultation in the final regulatory decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1317	This question, from the representative Morten Lund to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries. The question will be raised by the representative of Tor Nymo.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1320	‘In particular from coastal fishermen, concerns are now being expressed about pilot fisheries which were opened this year as from 1 January 2001 and where catches have been small and with a significant involvement of small herring. The concern is that the bulk has been over-taxed several times in the past, with failures in other fisheries as a result. Have sufficient account been taken of past experience and political assurances to be careful to tax the stock of solders when setting quotas and fishing hours?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1327	I would first like to inform you about the actual conditions surrounding the regulation of seismic fishing. The stocks in the Barents Sea, a shared resource between Norway and Russia, are within safe biological limits. During the 29th session of the Norwegian-Russian Joint Fisheries Commission, Norway and Russia agreed to allow for winter weight fishing in 2001 of 630000 tonnes, in line with the recommendations of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea. Norwegian vessels can fish a total of 371,000 tonnes of weight in 2001 and the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea is based on advice that fishing must take place in the first quarter. This is reflected in the Norwegian regulation of pilot fishing. Fishing was opened on 15 January 2001 within an area south of 74°N and west of 32°E and outside 4 nautical miles of baselines. Prior to the opening of other areas, it is assumed that the area concerned has been surveyed for the purpose of separating the adult weight from the juvenile and that the incorporation of fish and herring is within the following criteria: 1st@item: inlistbox 300 specimens of the species cod, hake, herring and blue herring less than minimum per year. tonnes of solders, or2. 35 kg cod over minimum dimensions per 100 tons of weight, or 3. 10 pst. of a weight of less than 11 cm minimum Further opening of fields will take place according to traditional pattern, with the Directorate-General for Fisheries identifying the relevant fishing areas with regard to the incorporation of fish and herring according to the above criteria. Areas which have been opened may be closed if the interference with the catches is contrary to the provisions in force. I can therefore reassure the representative on all points. The lot stock is good and the quotas and the catch season are in line with the recommendations of the researchers. Norwegian fishing is also regulated in such a way as to ensure that one does not interfere excessively with weights below minimum or other species in the fishing for solders.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1350	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Norway has managed well to manage its resources in the Barents Sea. Despite some administrative difficulties, e.g.: in relation to blue herring, the situation is relatively good for most major fish stocks. It should then be mentioned that the Russian detention unit appears to have released the roof and that they have driven the quotas on, for example: cod very high. In any case, we have set ourselves far better than what the EU has done in the North Sea, where the cod stock is very close to total collapse. Norway has major tasks in managing the resources in the Barents Sea in relation to sales and whales, where a number of populations are now too large and should be subject to much stronger taxation. In particular, this cell applies. It is much easier to hear for a well-founded argument based on administrative principles, if we manage to keep our path clean in our own waters, which we have partly made clear in the 1980s. My question to the Council of State is: Can we afford to lose credibility and status in this area by risking that too low a lot of soldering leads to too little food in the sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1361	For Norway, it is important to operate good marine resource management based on science. We are also based on a good dialogue with the users of the sea, fishermen, and we are actively involved in international cooperation with the EU and Russia in terms of different populations we manage with other countries. For a country that relies on fishing resources in such a way as Norway is, I think it is fundamental just to take scientific into account. That is what we have done in this case, and that is also what can in the long run best strengthen our credibility as an environmental nation and as a fishing nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1368	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. We have to be very careful about fishing for solders. Among other things, in the 1980s, intensive pilot fishing was a contributing factor in the crisis in the fisheries that culminated in fishing stops and in a new coastal fleet management regime. The catches that are now being delivered have a large impact of herring and herring. This could mean that there are less weights in the sea than you've assumed before, and that the quantity you've put up to now can do a lot of damage to the population. This could particularly affect coastal fishermen. Lodda shall lure other fish closer to land. When loods are caught so far at sea, they are considerably less fish for coastal fishermen. Does the Council agree with this description?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1379	What I agree with is that both caution and science should form the basis for setting the quotas. This is precisely what has been done with regard to the setting of the annual allowances for lotteries, and it is these principles that it would be right to work this year and forward for a fishing nation and an environmental nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1387	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for the Environment: ‘SFT enters in order to liquidate the emergency storage for oil protection equipment on Fedje. Fedje is very strategic for the most trafficked port in Northern Europe, Mongstad, among others. Does the Council of State think that SFT's proposal is defensive, based on the fact that huge quantities of oil are transported on the keel to and from Mongstad, and that the traffic density in the area is very high, and should it not be focused on prevention and preparedness?"
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1396	SFT has recently carried out a comprehensive environmental risk and preparedness analysis of its oil protection preparedness. The analysis has been aimed at clarifying whether state preparedness to major cases of acute pollution is sufficient in view of the environmental risks posed by oil spills from shipping. The Ministry of the Environment received the report at the beginning of last week. In this report, the SFT proposes how the state’s preparedness for acute oil pollution should be developed in the years to come based on the analyses that have now been carried out. The proposals of the SFT cover more oil protection equipment, training and exercises as well as changes in organisation. As part of its report, SFT has looked at the state depot structure. In this context, they propose to lay down the State Oil Protection Pot on Fedje. The reason for this is that the Fedje depot has poor availability, and that the area is covered by the Bergen depot as well as by the state depot that the SFT proposes to move from Sunund to Florø. In addition, Hydro has extensive oil protection resources at the Sture Terminal, Statoil has extensive oil protection resources at the Mongstad Terminal, and the socket operators’ emergency organisation, NOFO, has an oil shelter in Mongstad. The Ministry of the Environment will now go through this SFT report in depth and we will ensure that views from different teams are taken on location issues in the SFT proposal. This is what we will do before we take a final decision on the level of security to which the State should invest and where the State oil protection equipment should be located. However, I would also like to make it clear that strengthening oil protection must focus on more than the need for mechanical oil protection equipment. Strengthening preparedness must therefore also include preventive measures to prevent the occurrence of accidents and measures taken to limit the level of injury after the accident/hazard has occurred. The government has therefore undertaken a systematic effort to specify both preventive and preparedness measures, and we therefore see the SFT proposal in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1407	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am particularly pleased to be able to confirm that it will also be put up for preventive action. Nevertheless, I would like to stress – and I am somewhat concerned about it – that when looking at measures against acute oil pollution, the SFT actually suggests moving a depot from the seal to the port that it is talking about, and quite far from geographically. We know that time has a lot to say in these contexts, and there are huge amounts of oil being transported here. 500 million. Ton oil is transported on the keel, mainly to and from Mongstad, but also to and from Sture, which is located in the same area. Last year there was a traffic density of 2,700 at the stop town of Mongstad, and at Sture there was also a lot of traffic density. If one looks at the crossing traffic that goes along the coast there, the risk of an accident — and therefore a disaster — is imminent.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1414	I share the representative's view on the importance of preventive measures in terms of safety along our coast, but I would point out once again that it would not be right or proper for me today to have a very concrete view of the individual site proposals that the State pollution control authorities have included in their report on oil protection. On the other hand, I intend to carry out a wide-ranging consultation on these proposals, in such a way that different local communities will be informed about their views on where equipment should be located in order to make optimum use of our overall preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1419	I would like to stress that, ever since the Mongstad Terminal was launched, there has been a concern in the area as to what will happen, whether the preparedness is good enough, and whether the preventive measures are good enough in the event of a disaster. In fact, there are only a few millimeters of steel that distinguishes between what represents heavy value creation and the total oil disaster. What's happening in the Haugesund area, and what's happened, is just a privilege -- not that one -- to count in relation to what can happen in this area. We also know that in addition to this, one has to do with a crew, which is very upstanding, and who knows the sea's moods and can control them. My question is: will the Council of State in the assessment that comes, also take into account both the proximity to the port and the expertise, competence and experience that is perfectly clear in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1428	The purpose of the review I'm going to do and the decisions I'm going to make in the near future is to get better preparedness along our coast. Then we need more modernized and up-to-date equipment, but it is also important that we think carefully about where to place the equipment. Proximity will be one important principle to be applied, but it is also important that we have the adequate equipment located in the places where we want to need it, and in that way get a good preparedness that can come into effect as soon as the accident is over. However, there are questions about how we can best get an emergency response and where the equipment should be located, which are among the assessments we are going to make and come back quickly with decisions on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1436	‘A clear majority of the Grand Duchy has decided that an annual provision shall be made for the rehabilitation and maintenance of Stavanger Cathedral. The Ministry of the Environment has also been asked to help clarify the department of this budget line. What has been done to follow up the current comment in the budgetary position on the Stavanger cathedral?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1443	There is a strong need for maintenance and preservation of valuable cultural memories. This also applies to churches and church furnishings. Stavanger Cathedral is one of twelve church buildings which, next to the cathedral of Nidarus, are defined as church buildings of national value. In recent years, therefore, substantial amounts have been allocated to the restoration of the cathedral. The funds are mainly allocated to the Ministry of Church, Education and Research but are made available to the Riksantikvaren. There is a consensus that Stavanger Cathedral is a very important facility. The Committee on Energy and the Environment has noted that it is natural to establish a system of annual provisions on the Stavanger Cathedral budget, in line with the system applicable to the cathedral of Nidaro. At the same time, the Committee believes that the Ministry of the Environment should help to clarify the budget for which such a provision is to be made. As a follow-up to this comment, I have recently taken the initiative to discuss this with the Minister of Church, Education and Research, and these discussions will address the very question of funding to the Stavanger Cathedral for the current year. However, in order to highlight the issues raised by the question and comment of the committee, I need to address in principle the responsibilities of the churches. The operation, maintenance and restoration of our churches is today a municipal responsibility. This is the result of the Church Act. An exception to this rule is the cathedral of Nidarus, where the State is responsible for restoration and the antique maintenance. This expenditure is covered by the budget of the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, and the costs of normal operation are borne by the municipality. The Ministry of the Environment has a legal professional responsibility for the protection and preservation of the medieval churches, but no general responsibility for the maintenance and maintenance of churches. In addition to the Ministry of the Environment’s budget, only a small proportion of the Ministry’s appropriations are intended to cover the cost of restoration of churches. The stave churches stand in this context in a special position. The question of whether to assume general and extended responsibility for the maintenance of the Stavanger cathedral concerns principles relating to the relationship between state and church. In this context, I would like to point out that the Government has recently submitted its own big message – St.meld. No 14 for 2000–2001, Stock exchanges and cathedrals — addressing these issues. The government has here agreed that part of the income from the Information Society's fund should be used for the protection and protection of older churches and church furnishings, and that the government's expenditure on the Nidaro Cathedral should be taken over by the Fund. It is natural that grants to the Cathedral of Stavanger should be considered in the context of this proposal. The outcome of the handling of this notification by the Storting will therefore also be essential for clarifying the issues raised in the question from Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1460	It is positive that the discussion with other government councils that the committee asked for is now imminent, and I hope that the Storting will be briefed on the outcome of that round, so that one knows where responsibility is placed. What the committee did was to take the consequence that the Stavanger cathedral is not any church, but a church that can in many ways be equated with Nidarosdom in terms of historical significance. And it was by placing Stavanger cathedrals in this situation that one said it was natural that the state contributed with annual appropriations. In general, it is a municipal responsibility to maintain a church, but it is not the case for Nidarosdom, and the Committee has established that the State also has a special responsibility in the case of cathedrals. So I ask you to confirm that there will be funds for Stavanger Cathedral in this year's budget, as the Committee has foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1467	The representative of Kvassheim is in urgent demand for the follow-up by the Council of State to the budgetary procedure in the case of Stavanger Cathedral. I take it as a sign of a strong interest in the matter, and will of course do my part to ensure that this gets a quick clarification. The meeting with the Minister of Church and Education to which I have just referred will be held in the near future, and of course we will follow up the work of the Stavanger Cathedral in the light of the comment of the Grand Prix Committee and what I have just said. It has been given money to Stavanger Cathedral in recent years, and this is an important building that still deserves support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1474	My zeal in this area is that it is an important project. It is important to maintain this building continuously through state and municipal involvement. I became a little worried when I addressed this issue during the budgetary procedure in Stortinget, because then the Council of State replied that this was primarily a municipal responsibility. That is why I just wanted to make sure that the comment was properly respected, and it confirms to the Council that it will be in terms of clarifying the liability. The second point that is being addressed, and which I believe is being given feedback at the same time as clarifying which department is responsible, is a confirmation that funds will be provided, and on what budget they will be made available. Stavanger Municipality has said that they are willing to grant 1 million annually. kr, and with a State contribution of that magnitude, this task will be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1483	The way in which the Government will follow up the Storting's budgetary comment, I am absolutely sure that we will have ample opportunity to discuss in Stortinget, not least with the background of the representative Kvassheim's commitment. But I can confirm that we will of course inform Stortinget in the light of the work we have now started.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1488	We're now going to question 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1494	This question was asked by the representative Randi Karlstrøm to the Minister for Oil and Energy. It will be answered by the Minister for the Protection of the Environment who directs it, and it will be taken up by the representative of Kari Økland.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1497	g will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Recent coastal disasters have shown a lack of coordination of response resources. The focus is on responsible powderisation, which forms the basis for lack of coordination. Unlike commercial vessels, which in reality represent a limited pollution hazard, an accident associated with the petroleum industry may have a greater pollution potential. Is the preparedness associated with this coordinated more satisfactorily, or does it also lack a higher coordinating authority?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1506	Norwegian emergency preparedness is very good. The actions of the last breakdowns were successful, but also showed that there are a number of improvement points of a preventive and preparedness nature. These are the points we've now been able to deal with. With regard to the petroleum activity on the cap, operators are required under the pollution law to be prepared to deal with acute contamination. The individual operator has to prepare its own contingency plans based on environmental risk analysis, following a mandate from the State pollution control body, which is the central authority body for pollution preparedness. On the basis of approved plans, operators are required to have emergency equipment and personnel and to carry out the necessary training and exercises. The petroleum industry is thus required to be prepared to act and take care of oil spills from its operations. On the Norwegian base, the companies have their own emergency organisation, the Norwegian Oil Protection Association for Operator Companies – NOFO. The NOFO has established five oil protection depots with associated personnel along the coast. In addition, each operator has emergency equipment on each installation in order to be able to take care of less oil spills and to be the first line in the case of larger spills before the equipment from the depots can be in place. The reason why we have a more satisfactory situation in this area is first of all that we are dealing with a stationary business where the actors are known and also take responsibility. Thus, the general rule of the pollution law is that the operator of an establishment likely to result in an acute contamination risk should provide the necessary preparedness to prevent pollution, to a greater extent, implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1517	I thank the Council of State for the answer. However, if a crisis situation arises related to the petroleum activity, it would be essential to have a good overview of the resources available and their capacity. Subsequent experience suggests that preparedness is not sufficient. Does the council share this concern, and will she do anything about it? And what will she possibly do?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1522	I share the view that total safety along the coast and preparedness can definitely be better. This is why the Government has now started work on better prevention, better monitoring and better preparedness. However, with regard to the preparedness of oil companies, the situation is that we have a good preparedness, and that we have a good coordination between this part of the preparedness and the rest of the oil preparedness in our country. The need for strengthening will therefore primarily concern the total oil protection equipment, which goes beyond what is also the responsibility of the oil companies. Here, of course, the Government will continue its work on good coordination.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1529	I thank you again for the answer. In the past, there has been a work on integrating the information from the Swedish Defence Radar, the Coastal Stations and the permanent installations of the operators on the Norwegian base, etc. Has the Council any knowledge of this work, and what is the status of this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1536	As far as prevention is concerned and the possibility of strengthening it is concerned. to make a much better use of defence radar data into civil activity. This is one of the areas covered by the Government in order to gain a strengthening. It will also be important to continue to work on the marking of the master in order to improve safety. Better coordination and strengthening of existing resources are now under way, so this will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1541	We go back to question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1547	This question, from the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Development who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1550	I think the Minister for the Environment is also right when it comes to climate issues, but it is a good thing that the Minister for Development is able to get to Stortinget. She's not here that much, so it's okay. ‘In Norway, we have taken a number of measures to limit the physical damage caused by climate problems, including: flood protection. In poor countries, which do not contribute specifically to greenhouse gas emissions, such as Bangladesh, countries do not have the means to take the necessary measures. In these countries, climate problems very often lead to disasters, including: thousands of dead, destroyed crops and dwellings. What is Norway doing specifically to help these countries cope with climate problems?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1559	Natural disasters such as storms, floods, and drought hit the poorest. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, climate change will lead to such disasters occurring more frequently and to a greater extent. The fundamental injustice of climate change is that countries that are most vulnerable to the potential effects of the changes have made little contribution to their own emissions. This issue also reminds us of the link between poverty and vulnerability, and therefore the fight against poverty is important in this context. To address these problems, it is essential to establish an international climate agreement. We are very disappointed by the collapse in The Hague, but we are actively working to get the negotiations going again. Norway is actively working with developing countries to reach a good agreement in this area. China is now No. 2 on the emission peak, while India is in sixth place. We cooperate with several developing countries, including: China and India, in order to reduce their emissions and increase greenhouse gas emissions. According to the International Energy Agency, developing countries will already contribute as much climate emissions as developed countries in 2010. If we are to solve the global climate problems, we must actively involve developing countries in the process. However, floods, droughts and other natural disasters are nothing new. We have a long experience with emergency aid and are increasingly working to prevent such disasters. Norwegian assistance in this area has been concentrated on capacity building and measures to help the most vulnerable populations. We also support the UN Strategy to Prevent Natural Disasters. NORAD has supported the development of meteorological competence in Vietnam and competence in water resource management, including: in the case of flood warning, in a number of countries. In Bangladesh, support has been given for the development of cyclone-proof buildings and a larger national crisis management plan. NORAD provides support for reconstruction, e.g.: as one did after Hurricane Mitch in Central America and the floods in Mozambique and Bangladesh. Norway is committed to a number of measures to help victims of natural disasters, including disasters caused by extreme weather conditions. About 215 million. kr was used for such measures in 2000. Most of the funds went to emergency aid, with emphasis on food aid, health care and emergency shelter. About a quarter of them were used for prevention and preparedness measures, such as: early warning systems and pre-storage of emergency equipment. Emergency aid is concentrated on the poorest populations. We have to assume that the challenges in this area will be even greater in the future. This is what we are following, among other things. increased appropriations, not least for the prevention of damage caused by natural disasters.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1576	I thank you for your answer. For SV's part, it is important to seize the evil at the root. As I understand it now, we actually need to use some u-help tools specifically for climate action, instead of doing what we should do, simply reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. I would like to comment from the Council of State on the policy that Norway has in relation to the greenhouse gas problem, on the fact that one reduces the price of petrol and thus increases car traffic, and that one goes in to build gas power plants. Does the Council of State mean that it actually helps to reduce u-help by using funds for other things, compared to the fact that this is a climate problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1585	As I said, natural disasters are not a more recent phenomenon, but something we've been working on for a long time on the development side. Such conditions may become more severe, and thus the need for emergency assistance in such contexts will also increase. Then we will probably also spend more resources in the context of assistance on such measures, perhaps especially on the prevention side. It will then be a cost-effective approach to the issue. Otherwise, Norway and the Norwegian Government view climate problems as perhaps the biggest challenge in our time. Climate change will have very serious consequences for all countries, but the most vulnerable are the poorest, who are already the most vulnerable. Therefore, the government’s efforts in climate negotiations are also an effort for poor countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1592	Only a short question finally running on the quota system. A system of allowances must be established, and in such a system only rich countries can buy freely, in my opinion. For Bangladesh, it's a bit topical for example. What did the Minister of Development think it necessary for Norway and the Norwegian Government to do to ensure that there is some sort of justice in the quota system that one should establish and that there is a multiple to establish? What can we do with a developing country like Bangladesh to ensure that they do not lose in this fight?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1599	I think it is important to stress that the mechanisms discussed internationally in the context of climate negotiations are mechanisms that will contribute to both increased technology transfers and increased capital transfers to the poorest countries. As a development minister, I see this very positively. We must ensure that just such capital and technology transfers take place in the context of the mechanisms that are agreed on internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1604	Question 18 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1610	This question, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1613	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture and look forward to the answer that the Minister of Justice can give: ‘According to the nations, the European Commission states that Norway has a full right to stop the importation of live bovine animals from EU countries. This is the case after a number of EU countries have become enslaved. The Minister of Agriculture has previously stated that it is desirable that Norwegian farmers do not import bovine animals but that Norway cannot introduce a ban. Is this not enough an example that the Government is not willing to take advantage of the freedom of action that Norway has as a non-EU member?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1622	The representative Valle asks whether the Government is not willing to take advantage of Norway’s non-EU freedom of action by imposing an import ban on live bovine animals, with reference to a look-up in the Nation on 25 January. Initially, I would like to stress that the Government is willing to take advantage of the freedom of action we have in the EEA Agreement. Last year, on several occasions, we have taken advantage of this opportunity, first by prohibiting the introduction of some types of Danish meat last spring until the Danes themselves were controlled, and last but not least by not following the EU in relation to the use of fishmeal as feed. The representative Valle's claim is therefore, in my opinion, not correct. The representative, Valle, refers to the fact that the Minister of Agriculture has previously stated that it is desirable that Norwegian farmers not import bovine animals but that Norway cannot impose a ban. The statement is two-part. First, the issue of imports may be prohibited: trade in live bovine animals within the EEA territory is initially allowed if the rules for such trade laid down in the EEA Agreement are followed. The rules are comprehensive and concern both the herd and the animal in the country of dispatch and inspection upon reception. In spite of these control requirements, where the introduction would pose a threat to public or animal health, the EEA Agreement contains a safeguard clause allowing Norway to impose a temporary prohibition on imports. In other words, the import ban must be justified on a professional basis. This possibility is a reflection of the right of any EEA country under the EU Directives. In the case of the risk of spreading bovine animals in this country upon introduction of live bovine animals, it is assessed by the Veterinary Institute that, with the labelling and control of all imported animals and progeny, there is no threat to defend a prohibition. Indeed, any prohibition must be defended professionally through consultations within the EEA Committee. If it turns out that our reasons are not accepted, this could be met with counter-reactions, for example. in the form of appropriate economic reactions or other measures that may make it difficult for us. So the fact is that prohibitions can be imposed, provided that this can be defended professionally. In those cases where individual EU countries have unilaterally imposed a ban on the importation of live bovine animals, the Commission considers that these countries have not been able to provide sufficient professional justification and, according to information provided to me, have granted countries a deadline for lifting the ban in January. So to the statement that it is desirable that Norwegian farmers do not import cattle for breeding purposes. The Minister of Agriculture has answered several times the import question. The risk assessment carried out by the Veterinary Institute suggests that there is a greater possibility of finding cows in imported bovine animals compared to Norwegian births. Therefore, it would be desirable for those who need to import, introduce semen or embryos instead of live animals. According to the professionals, prions giving birth cannot be transferred by semen or embryo. Imports of semen and embryos rather than imports of live animals are, moreover, also a control measure in relation to other diseases. The introduction of such germinal products is also preferable to live animals because the former imposes additional work and costs on the control bodies. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the Minister for Agriculture will give the House a broader explanation of these questions on 13 February, followed by a debate on 22 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1647	I thank you for your answer. The spread of cows in several EU countries shows how wrong it can be when freedom of movement and competition are all other considerations and where one of the results is a through-industrialised agriculture. SV was and is opposed to the EEA Agreement, but at the same time we are concerned that Norway is using the freedom of action we have as a non-EU member. I record that the Council of State referred to some areas where you have used the freedom of action, but that is, after all, everything in small areas. The tumors last week gave cause for some comments. Outstanding bureaucrats confirm to both the Evening Post and the Nations that Norway has the freedom to impose import bans. What does the Council of State do when it comes to making use of its freedom of action? No, he almost panics and has to prove to a great extent to the world that Norway has no freedom of action in this area. The result is glowing telephone lines and counter-message from the Commission. Is that not the basis for using the disagreement that exists in the EU Commission to protect Norwegian consumers and Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1658	The government's assessment is that at this stage we do not have the freedom to impose an import ban, because the EEA Agreement says that it is only where the conditions for using the safeguard clause exist that we can impose an import ban. And the professional authorities that we have here in Norway to assess the professional sustainability of any import ban justified in this particular safeguard clause say that there is no professional basis for using the safeguard clause in the EEA Agreement and thereby imposing an import ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1663	I thank you again for the answer. In the light of what has happened and the statements that have been made, and the disagreements that are, after all, in the EU system, and which I believe should have been exploited for all that it is worth, I am tempted to believe that the Council of State and the Government are more concerned with demonstrating what is not feasible than to follow the advice given by both the veterinary authorities and the State Food Authority, namely that the total ban is the only way to protect themselves against jealousy. I am tempted to believe that this is a deliberate strategy to lure a contentious opinion to say yes to Norwegian EU membership at a later date. But I'm not going to say that, because this is a matter of consumer safety. The Minister of Agriculture has said he will be a strong consumer minister, and I would urge the Government and the Council of State to take advantage of the freedom of action that I believe lies both in the security clause, in the disagreement in Brussels and in the strong opinion of the people of the EU countries themselves. It is not that the Council of State believes that the EU will punish Norway in an area where there is so much concern in the EU Member States.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1673	I hear that the representative, Valle, maintains that there is freedom of action to impose an import ban. The government’s assessment is that that freedom of action does not exist, and it was also clearly confirmed by the EU after the debate that took place last week. It is therefore the Norwegian professional authorities, the Veterinary Institute, who say that the control we have in Norway today is fully professionally sound, and it is precisely this proper control of imports of animals into Norway – that we have control systems that are good enough – that they say that there is no basis for imposing import bans. I also hear that the representative, Valle, refers to the State Food Authority. We have been confirmed by the Director of the State Food Safety Authority this morning, on the basis of a look-up in the nation today, that he is not familiar with the description given: that he must have said that a total ban is necessary and the only right thing about the importation of live bovine animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1685	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘11. In October 2000, the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to investigate the possibility of establishing a central knowledge base with competence for sexual abuse against children. In letter of 7 November 2000, the head of Kripos wrote to the Ministry of Justice that he could have such an aid concept operationally 4 months after a clear signal was given. Does the Council of State consider giving such a signal and will it be given as soon as the ‘Barne-Kripos’ can be operational before summer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1692	Following the decision of the Stortinget to ask the Government to investigate the possibility of establishing a central knowledge base on sexual abuse against children, the Ministry has received an enquiry from Kripos, as the representative Marthinsen mentions, proposing a staff increase of 15 years' work to enable Kripos to provide research assistance that is more proportionate to the current needs, as well as to meet the need for skills and methodology development in this area. Since 1995, Kripos has built up competence in sexual abuse, in particular in the field of child abuse, both in the field of research and crime, and there has been an increase in the number of requests for assistance. The Ministry has asked Kripos to follow up his assistance to the police districts in this area by the year 2001 at the latest, but also in letters to the police districts and Kripos last July. Before considering the proposals made by the director of the Kripos, the Department has asked for an explanation of, among other things. how the positions already allocated to this type of crime at Kripos are used, what assistance needs are sought and whether there are areas in which assistance is currently not available. Since it is the national lawyer who is responsible for the investigation and the further handling of criminal cases, I have also found it natural to ask him to consider the Kripos proposal and indicate the needs to be met with such a knowledge base. I have also asked for the views of the Directorate of Police on how best to take care of the central aspect of the Marthinsen proposal, which is to continue to strengthen the work of revealing and clarifying child abuse. Responses were requested by 12 February at the latest. The Ministry has recently received the report from Kripos, which points to several key aspects of the aid function, as well as to the needs that still need a reinforced follow-up. Among other things, Kripos points out that there has been a marked increase in the competence of investigators and prosecution lawyers dealing with sexual assaults, but that there is insufficient capacity to meet police district needs. However, I would like to assess the presentation by Mr Kripos together with the answers from the State Attorney and the Police Directorate as soon as the last two are available. The aim must be clear enough, namely the desire to continue to strengthen the work on raising skills and to identify and solve child abuse. Furthermore, the issue raised by the representative Marthinsen is also mentioned in the recent report on policing, police reform 2000. It shows that: ‘the strengthening of KRIPOS’ means the concept of assistance and by the size of the new police districts, a completely different situation is achieved from today’s. The prosecution authority's follow-up to the rape report and the new measures of competence will also contribute to strengthening the work in this area.'
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1708	I thank you for your answer. I think it was a complementary and comprehensive response, which in many areas meets the concerns and concerns of the majority of the population after the adoption of this. I think it is absolutely right to look at this from a broad perspective, and to involve different bodies also in order to get answers to the questions and areas that the Minister of Justice has underlined and pointed out here. I hope that this means – and I understand it this way in the Council’s answer – that she is also impatient about getting this up and standing, for every child who is being assaulted is too much. I hope that what comes out of this will not be excessive decentralisation – I think in relation to what you say about police districts – but centralisation, so that you achieve a high level of competence and do not spread it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1717	The aim is that I am convinced that the representative Marthinen and I are fully in agreement on this, which is to continue to work to strengthen the investigation of child abuse. But what I've been busy about is that before we do new things and new grips, we need to make sure we're doing the right thing, so we don't get anything up fast and stand that's not the right thing. That's why we need to go this round first to make sure that we're doing the right thing when we first do something. I feel convinced that it will not be appropriate in any way to remove the aid concept from Kripos. We've had that for years, and we've been happy with it, so it's primarily a question of how to develop it further, what tasks and what competences should lie with Kripos, and what is the most correct possible to have elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1724	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think we're definitely in line with these questions. It is important that when we get such an aid concept up and stand – beyond what already exists – that we have two things in mind. One of course, what's the main purpose of this is to help the kids. The second is that we avoid the unfortunate consequences to which we have seen any progress, namely that someone has been convicted of having committed an assault for which they are subsequently acquitted. So this can beat both ways: it can be a protection for those who are accused of being false, while primarily it is a help for the children and a help in the investigation. I think it is important that this competence is further expanded, and I can promise the full support of the Christian People's Party in the work that the Council of State will do in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1731	I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1739	‘According to Finn Abrahamsen, head of the division of violence in the Oslo police district, the armed situation in Oslo is now hopeless. Situations where people threaten with knives and firearms are increasing. Illegal possession of weapons has a general penalty of 3 months. This is not consistent with the seriousness of the actions taken. Will the Council of State take the initiative to increase the penalties for illegal possession of weapons?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1746	In the spring of 1998, the Storting adopted a number of changes to the Arms Act, such as: include the criminal provisions for the illegal possession and use of firearms. According to Section 33 of the Act, the penalty framework has been raised to two years in prison for, among others. ‘no legitimate reason’ means to carry weapons in a public place. Under the second paragraph of the same paragraph, where the offence is particularly serious, it may be lifted to prison for four years. However, the less serious breaches of the Arms Act will only have a three-month penalty framework. I mention, for example, that there may be infringements such as not keeping ammunition and weapons apart, as one should do according to the rules. This graduated scale of penalties — which came into force on 5 June 1998 — should initially provide adequate instruments for criminal responses to illegal possession of weapons. Let me nevertheless add that the Government of Ot.prp. No 21 for 2000–2001 on changes in the Arms Act, which is now under treatment in the United Kingdom, among others. has proposed an upscaling of the criminal provisions of the Arms Act. After this, it is now clear that the stricter two-year penalty framework will also include the illegal possession of firearms. In the light of the recent proposals presented by the Government, which the Stortinget has to deal with, I do not want to take the initiative to further increase the criminal framework now, but to keep the issue under constant review. As regards the fight against crime of violence and the alarming development of the proliferation of firearms among criminals, it is also important to look at matters other than criminal law. Among other things, it is important to have control over the large number of unregistered weapons currently in private ownership. The Proposition on changes to the Arms Act contains proposals for legislation for a national weapon name path. I would like to point out here the positive experience gained through a pilot project on the weapon name path in four police districts. Finally, let me mention that in the summer of 1999, Stortinget adopted a new Section 10a of the Police Act on access for the police to be able to visit people in public places in order to search for weapons. This visitation helmet also includes knives or other dangerous articles which are not prohibited by themselves. This provision was made temporarily for three years from its entry into force and will be evaluated during that year. I also mention that, in the light of the Oslo police districts' input, it is also natural to link to that evaluation an assessment whether there is reason to extend the visitation centre to other types of visitation, such as the visitation of persons. car inspection or search.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1759	I thank the Council of State for the answer. My question has its background in a description by the Oslo police of a large amount of illegal weapons in criminal environments, and it was raised from high ranks and from several police teams that an increase in the general penalty framework for illegal possession of weapons, which will also include knives, might have been a way to go. I believe that the Council of State gave a satisfactory response to the penalties we have attached to the Arms Act, and I am of course aware that we also have proposals in the Stortingen now on a tightening up. And I take note that you don't want to take any initiative related to an increase in the penal framework in this area, but will follow the situation. But will not an increase in the general criminal framework in criminal law also raise the threshold for illegal weaponry with knives – which has ended in tragic situations in a number of respects – and be an effective instrument also against criminals and gangs?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1768	I am committed to assessing the criminal framework for the use and possession of weapons, but I believe that the review we had in connection with the amendments to the Arms Act provides a reinforcement that should be sufficient in the first place. But if we were to consider it differently in a shorter or longer time period, we are of course willing to look at it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1773	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. And as I said, I've just recorded that there are several police teams that point out that an increase can be effective in relation to some criminals and gangs who operate not only with firearms, but also have weapons with knives. In a previous answer, the Council of State said something I fully agree with her in – in such situations we will take the time necessary, so that we know that we are doing the right thing too.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1780	I don't have anything to add here either.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1796	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1802	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The Moss Police Chamber and Moss City Court have little satisfactory premises today, and it is provided that a new police and property building is to be built. Can the State Council explain the progress plan and when can it be expected that the new premises can be completed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1811	I'm familiar with the local situation of the police district and the city court in Moss. I can inform you that a progress plan has already been drawn up which requires the offer material for a new building in Moss to be sent out in the spring of 2001. According to the plan of progress, the submission of offers for new premises should take place early in the autumn of 2001. We expect the police to enter into a lease with the current provider before the end of the year. The construction project is planned to be completed in the spring of 2003. In the case of Moss City Law premises, once the offers have been received and evaluated, the Ministry of Justice will decide whether to start construction. I remember the Ministry of Justice in St.prp. No 1 for 2000-2001 has pointed out that if not both police and court premises can be completed at the same time, the needs of the police will be given priority. This will be a budgetary question. If it were possible to find cover in the next year's budget for new premises also for Moss City Law, these premises could be completed in the spring of 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1820	I thank the Council of State for the answer – that was very positive. But what's a problem is that these premises, as I understand it, are primarily to be rented, and that it is not the department itself that is to be responsible for the construction. It is now such that Moss's city law has incredibly narrow premises and must be rented out. Wouldn't it be most appropriate, when these two bodies are going to be in the same house, that you also build for both at the same time? It is a pity that a rental should be able to put an end to the entry into temporary premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1827	First, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as far as I am aware, the plans for construction are such that the police and court should be in each of their buildings, but the buildings should be on the same site. So there are two independent buildings in the planning that have been done so far. The department's assessment is that if we have to choose between the police and the court, the police's premises are the most required, and that's why we think it's the premises that should be given priority if we can't find cover to do both. And what's the situation per. Today, therefore, we are currently not sure whether it is possible to find the budget coverage for the increase in rent that a new building will bring to both the police and the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1834	I thank you again for the answer. I think the Minister of Justice is now putting a little dent in order for Moss to be able to get into time rooms, which it really needs. It's true that there are really two wings, but they're closely connected. In addition, the Justice Committee was also aware of what the Ministry wrote in the budget proposal, and requested that this be brought into the same building and completed at the same time. I agree that it is most insensitive to the police, but it is also insensitive to the city court in the crowded premises. It is also stated in the press release on the Courts of First Instance in the future that, irrespective of structural changes, Moss must enter new premises. It says that in the ‘long term’ one has to enter new premises, and it really worried me that the city court has to wait another time before it can enter new premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1845	I can just show you what I said. I cannot promise today that it will be possible to get Moss into new premises at the same time as the police. The reason for this is in so far as budgetary assessments are concerned, and in so far as the big message referred to by the representative, Mr Nakkim, is concerned. The implementation of the notification will have to lead to an assessment of where it is appropriate, where appropriate, to give priority to increased operational frameworks, in which case more money will be spent on the operation of the courts in order to cover house rental increases also in other places where it is necessary to make structural and localisation changes as a result of the decisions taken by the Stortinget in connection with the notification of the Grand Duchy of First Instance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1853	I have a question for the Minister of Justice: ‘The Minister of Justice has overall responsibility for the coordination of the Schengen implementation. It includes border surveillance and police cooperation. In our neighbouring countries, border surveillance is mainly carried out by a defined body of responsibility. The implementation of Norway's Schengen will affect more offices than the police. This may be the basis for problems if cooperation and sharing of responsibilities are not well anchored. How is this solved?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1862	The preparation of all aspects of Norway’s operational participation in Schengen cooperation, the so-called Schengen implementation, has been carried out in the form of two major projects managed by the Ministry of Justice. One project has taken care of the establishment of a national base for the Schengen Information System, SIS, so that Norwegian police can make full use of the system in cooperation with the other Schengen countries. This project will be completed in these days, with the objective of the project being achieved. Following the decision of the Justice and Home Affairs Council of the European Union on 1 December 2000, the SIS is now operational in the Nordic countries. The derogation is the use of SIS for the purposes of external border controls. This function is first implemented on 25 March of this year, when the internal border control between the Nordic region and the other Schengen area is abolished. Then the Nordic countries are taking part in the cooperation. The second project has also been completed a long time ago. The mandate for this has been to complete a number of different actions required for the first series of Norwegian police to be able to handle their Schengen-related tasks. The project includes, inter alia: included the allocation of new posts, training, acquisition and deployment of necessary materials and equipment, the updating of circulars, the preparation of new legislation and border control procedures. In addition to providing police preparation, the project has also ensured cooperation with other agencies. Early cooperation with other departments and agencies and cooperation with our neighbouring countries on cross-border police cooperation was established. With regard to the impact on border surveillance, it has been working closely with the Ministry of Defence. The defence is responsible for the lifting of sovereignty, i.e. border oversight in Norwegian territorial waters, in Norwegian airspace and at the border with Russia. This will give the Defence through the Maritime Defence Department, in particular the Coast Guard and the Army at the Garrison in South Varanger, responsibility for border surveillance at our external maritime border and our external border, which is a very important part of our Schengen participation. The division of responsibilities and cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence in the field of border surveillance have been well taken care of during the project period. It may also be added that border controls and surveillance in the other Nordic countries, with the exception of Denmark, are also distributed among different national authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1873	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. It is the defence that is primarily responsible for border surveillance. And recent events along the coast have highlighted the lack of surveillance along the coast, which well represents the longest part of the Norwegian outer border. Our coastal route has a significant geographical extent, and it represents in itself a risk of unwanted border crossings. There is reason to believe that the number of calls covered by the Schengen provisions is significantly higher than one hundred thousand per. years. In addition, there are a low number of coastguard vessels on continuous patrols in the territorial waters. Coastal monitoring can be called anything but exceptional, and there is a significant number of border crossing points along the coast. Has the Minister of Justice started to worry about whether border surveillance is good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1882	I feel confident that what has been done in terms of both border control and border control is sufficiently well taken care of. It is therefore the defence that is responsible for the general border surveillance, and it is the police that is responsible for border controls, i.e. border controls. So there's a two-part problem here, as in the other Nordic countries. I cannot see that the challenge of border surveillance and Norwegian sovereignty at our external maritime border is generally going to be significantly different now than it has been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1889	In the previous St.prp. No 1 shows that, in the context of the Schengen implementation, there would be a need to better integrate monitoring resources during 2000 in order to ensure satisfactory monitoring along the coast, as it is called. This is further described in the budget proposal for the current year. It also mentions the establishment of a monitoring centre by the end of 2001. Obviously this has not happened. More recently, monitoring along the coast has been shown to be insufficient, and this can only result in Norway becoming a back door to the Schengen area in terms of human trafficking. What measures have been taken to ensure adequate monitoring, as recent information shows that the measures mentioned in the previous budget proposal to meet an existing need are clearly not implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1896	First of all, the question of the criticism of the monitoring that has occurred recently. It has been concerned in particular with the monitoring of ships in the lead which are on the wrong track, etc. The discussion has been on the general surveillance of the defence in relation to the question of defence, and has not generally concerned the border surveillance carried out by the defence. A new coastguard vessel has been decided and ordered; it is also decided to build new frigates. It is all about better monitoring of waters outside Norway. I find it difficult to follow Mr Stang's description that the possibility of entering Norway is considerably greater than before a Schengen implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1906	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘Organised crime is in worrying development. This has been made visible by seizures of 40 kg of heroin in Asker from individuals reportedly related to the Kosovar Albanian environment and in frightening shooting episodes in the so-called reverberation environment in Oslo. What are the police doing to expose this type of crime?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1915	Organised crime has a high level of mobility and operates across borders as well as police districts. This means that this crime must be met with a wide range of measures. One of the instruments is undoubtedly better coordination of the overall efforts of the police. At the time of the establishment of the Police Directorate, Norwegian police have been given the professional central management that both the government and the magnificence have considered necessary to strengthen and coordinate efforts against cross-border and organised crime. The establishment of a National Council for the Coordination of Organised Crime (ROC) is another important instrument. The Council shall consist of members of the Police Directorate, the Public Prosecutor's Office, Økokrim, Kripos, Oslo Police District and the Police Masters. The Council shall carry out projects involving several police districts on short notice. That's 5 million. kr for such projects, and support has already been given in several cases. There is also extensive cooperation between the Police and Customs Department on both coordination, control efforts and methodological development. Regular meetings between the customs director and the new police director have been initiated. The proposals in the recent St.meld. No 22 for 2000-2001, police reform 2000 will both increase the possibilities for better coordination between police districts and release significant human resources such as: may be deployed in the fight against crime, including against organised, cross-border crime. Another important instrument in the fight against crime is the confiscation of the economic benefits of crime. Legal changes have significantly improved the possibilities of withdrawal. Police are required to use the provisions actively. We know from experience that such measures have a major impact on criminal organisations and people who are driven by high profit motives. Drug trafficking involving people from former Yugoslavia is a priority area throughout the Nordic region and in large parts of Europe. The Ministry of Justice took the early initiative in a cooperation project between Oslo police districts, other police districts concerned, Økokrim and Kripos to improve the fight against heroin introduction into Norway, carried out by these groups. The cooperation project has produced very good results and has gained international recognition. Large quantities of drugs have been identified and seized. The follow-up of these groupings continues. In particular, with regard to violence and shooting incidents in the nightclubs in Oslo, Oslo police districts are putting great forces into the fight against criminal gangs. Continuous threat assessments seek to be in the forefront and to develop new measures adapted to changes in criminal settings. The Directorate of Police reports that efforts against this form of crime are being maintained and not least further developed at at least as high a level in the future. Furthermore, all police districts affected by organised crime will receive professional support for coordinated action. I would also like to mention that the Norwegian police are represented in several international forums for combating cross-border crime. Under the Baltic Sea Task Force, which consists, in addition to the Nordic countries, of Russia, the Baltic States, Poland and Germany, there are a number of projects targeting criminals from Eastern Europe, including Poland. These include: organised several actions aimed at different forms of organised crime. Also under the auspices of Nordic police and customs cooperation, there is a continuous exchange of information for use in the fight against criminal groups. Finally, I would like to mention that our forthcoming entry into operational Schengen cooperation will provide Norwegian police with new opportunities in the fight against organised cross-border crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1945	I thank the Council of State for a good and satisfying answer. It seems to me that a number of important measures are now being taken and some important steps are being taken to combat this type of crime that we are talking about. I assume that the Council of State is also constantly concerned that this work is on a sufficiently high level, that it is not least organised in the right way and well enough, and that sufficient resources are being used. But what the Council of State was also about, and I want to ask you a little bit more about, is the relationship with the international situation. It is clear that this type of crime is at a cross-border level. There are always new challenges that way, and therefore it is very important that we are constantly at a high level of international police cooperation. The Eastern European countries are mentioned, and what I would like to ask is: What does the Council of States of the former Eastern bloc countries think of the countries that had different regimes than they do today — how does police cooperation with the former Eastern bloc countries work, to call them that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1954	We attach great importance to cooperating with the police in some of the countries from which we know that drugs are being smuggled. It has been a very good collaboration with, among others. Czech Republic. Baltic Sea Task Force, as I mentioned in my reply, is also an important cooperation forum for concrete and operational police cooperation, particularly in the fight against drug trafficking. In addition, I would like to mention that both the development of Europol and Schengen cooperation and the SIS systems will be very important in our further efforts to combat organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1961	I thank you again for the answer. We were also concerned about this relationship when we dealt with the paper on international police cooperation at the end of the spring session. In the previous questions, the Council of State was involved in the forthcoming implementation of Schengen, which appears to be on track. I assume, as the Council of State said, that it will be from 25 March, and that we will then become really operational from the Norwegian side. As far as relations with Europol are concerned, during the said deliberation of international police cooperation, we established that Europol is the EU Member States’ main action to prevent and combat international organised crime. It has been operational since 1 July 1999. So it's been a while. It is also said that it is very important to have a third country agreement with Europol. What I would like to ask the Council of State finally is the status of the work to enable us to also become operational in Europol cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1970	I cannot give a very precise answer as to where the negotiations on a third country agreement lie. The only thing I can assure the representative of Rasmussen is that it is not in Norway to have progress in reaching a third-country agreement with Europol. We're interested in getting to it as soon as possible. But I know that at least for a while in the autumn, it was partly because Europol had not completed its part of the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1975	That being the case, it is no. 1 in today's map done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-31.ana.ud1670e1984	There is no record available.
