ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e26	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 30 minutes, Advance Party 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e37	This budget heading covers the budgets of the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Industry. One must only note that there are cuts in all three departments' budgets in relation to the proposals of the Stoltenberg Government, cuts to finance tax relief. Fisheries and aquaculture are one of our most important industries. Norway is already far ahead due to access to raw materials and competences. But if Norway is still to be a leader in this field, knowledge must be developed further. A strong commitment to research and development is necessary. This led the government of Stoltenberg to increase investment in marine research and development with a total of 422 million. kr, or an increase of more than 60 pst. Of this, 307 million is going to be going to be. kr to new research ship. Unfortunately, the new Bondevik government is proposing to cut the whole line of industrial development in the marine sector. This comes in addition to cuts in the State Food and Rural Development Fund schemes, schemes that are largely beneficial to the fisheries and aquaculture industries. The new government's budget will make it harder to achieve the necessary development and renewal. Cutta will also be a threat to future divisions in Norway. There's every reason to be concerned about the $300 million cut. kr in the concessions to the agricultural agreement. Everything suggests that this is a cut that the Government has taken to balance its own budget. In the Labour Party, we are afraid that this cut will eventually go beyond the schemes administered by the SND, such as: means of building development. It is strange that one does such a cut long before the negotiations on the agricultural agreement have started, and I think it is difficult today to see what effect these cuts will have on the seventh and the last. Although there is a great deal to talk about in the budget, there seems to be a great deal of agreement that the Ministry of Economic Affairs budget, which will be adopted later this evening, announces a new course in industrial policy. It is, of course, quite legitimate for a new government to pursue a new policy. On the other hand, the Stortinget deals with our two important issues of enterprise and district policy, the Landfill Communication on regional and regional policy and the SND. In both of these cases, there was a large majority to pass on the effort at least at today's level. Although the fall option made a big change in the composition of the Storting, the parties that made up a multiple of ours still have multiples here in the hall. What the government is doing now is implementing policy to minorities, the policy for which the Right Party and, in part, the Progress Party entered into ours – that time for strong protests from the Christian People's Party and the Left. In the setting of the district and regional policy message, the Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party and SV, stated that it was: «an exceptional effort to achieve the main objectives of regional and regional policy over the coming period». And in the setting of the SND message, the Christian People's Party and the Left together with the previous center camera, the Center Party, said: ‘These members will also facilitate a broad register of public support and development measures and make risk capital more accessible to small and medium-sized enterprises. In this important work, SND is very central.» This was in ours and not now. Less than six months later, the Christian People's Party and the Left have simply sacrificed much of their district and industrial policies to be able to rule with the Right. Taxes seem to be the only valid prescription. Important arrangements that in our time had wide uprisings in the Greatness are now being razed because the Left and Christian People's Party have changed sides. Cutta to SND and regional and district policies are drastic and very serious for business, especially in District Norway. The fact that the government party has done these cuts to finance other actions may be explained, but that the Christian People's Party can agree to boast as unhindered of this conversion as they do in their joint comments with Right in the setting, is completely incomprehensible to me. And as if the conversion hasn't been big enough, and as if it isn't big enough, it's a warning that this is just the beginning. The name of the organization's path is shown by the changes. In other words, the government will continue to pursue its policy. And it's going to become stronger -- bigger tax havens and bigger cuts. In that case, there is every reason to congratulate the Right fully. Both municipal food funds and SND play an important role in assisting entrepreneurs and small businesses in a difficult start-up phase. But also established enterprises benefit from these schemes. Even in the early stages of growth, birth support may be needed. It is a pity to note that much of this birth aid is now being removed, and that many good start-ups will never see the light of day. The cut comes at the worst possible time. Terrorist acts on 11 September intensify the decline of the international economy. The market for many Norwegian exports is going down. The government itself has notice of an increased unemployment rate. The growth in the last month of unemployment was the largest in ten years. Business wear and tear, and the demand for venture capital is higher than in the long term. At the same time, the private capital market has dried up. Uvissa is great – here at home and internationally. The cuts in state aid schemes and risk capital are therefore completely wrong signals as the situation is now. Reactions in industry and districts have not been delayed. The district is in a state of insurrection. Lower tax is well and good for those who get it. But the fact is that very many of those who benefit from SND's plans do not pay taxes at all. In particular, this new and small enterprise is in an early stage of development. In practice, the new policy benefits cities and large enterprises. Conversion of business policy leads to a transfer of funds from districts to central districts, from small businesses in the start-up phase to large, well-established groups and not least to their owners. The government has e.g. priority to abolish the dividend tax. Half of this $1.3 billion tax is going to be in the Oslo area. The rest is mostly located in the other major urban areas. In these days, negative messages about what cut will lead to actually. The Industry Committee has been given a lot of protest letters and doubts about messages from those who are being cut off. Also local politicians country and beach around protests, and a district uprising has been brought up internally in the Christian People's Party – understandably, all the time these cuttlings are strangling against the Christian People's Party's program. But also in the Right there are many who react with infidelity when they now see the effects of the policy of the Government. Both spokesmen and corporate leaders associated with Right protest. In the spring it became known that Swedish government would change the framework conditions for its shipping industry. This will lead to a total change in competition conditions for Norwegian ferry companies in particular. The government of Stoltenberg suggested similar schemes in Norway as in Sweden. The new Bondevik government would not have such a scheme and therefore suggested it be removed again, which most likely would have led to the flagging out and the loss of many thousands of jobs if the government had been able to get through. Fortunately, this is not the case. In recent years, there have been many proposals for changes to the framework conditions for the shipping industry. This has unstable conditions for those who work in the industry. I am therefore pleased that a large majority in the Committee is now gathering behind the requirement that the Government should draw up a proposal for a system to ensure Norwegian seafarers’ competitive position. I hope that this can lead to a little more calm and not least more stable framework conditions for this important industry. In line with Right's ideology, the government wants the state to sell its way down to the Norwegian business community as far as possible. The Labour Party is not in principle against the sale of all or part of a company owned by the State. But state involvement is different from company to company, and it is therefore important in our view to evaluate each company separately. Now that the new government has announced a complete review of the state's ownership policy, we see no reason today to give the Government the authority to further downsal within the company. It may be decided upon after a specific assessment of the different companies. However, I would like to make it clear that the Labour Party understands this so that, where the Storting has previously made concrete assessments and decided to grant powers, these are at a later stage until the Storting may change them. To sum up, we must be able to establish that even though we now have a government led by the Christian People's Party, it is Right's district and industrial policy that is being put into practice today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e106	It's now going to be access to line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e109	I think it would have been better for this assembly if the Workers' Party spokesperson had spent his due time talking about the Workers' Party's industrial policy. But I register with considerable interest that he chose to do the opposite. Where we were able to recognize a certain thread – a few years ago – around the Workers' Party, about stability and about industrial policy, I note that everything that has been adorned around the word ‘stability’ has now been chosen to put in the wardrobe. I think the Workers' Party would actually have been better off, after the worst election results in history, taking the break of being in the closet for a while and assessing what kind of challenge it is of the nation, Norwegian business and Norwegian competitive sector. One thing is that very much of what Akselsen had in mind in his mention of the competing party, directly is wrong. In addition, it gives a strange picture, when one has managed to bring the country into a situation of low economic activity in our main markets, to meet this by laying on a bottom line in terms of productivity development, and at the top in terms of wage developments. The challenge and the historical difficulties surrounding an OECD fall, a growth rate at the lowest level of 20 years, meet to be at the top of interest rates in Europe. This is certainly not a contribution to giving the competitive business we have – and which is primarily export oriented, as we find in District Norway – some way to meet the new challenges. That's a worse situation they're in. It is this situation that the new government is addressing. And then I ask, how much documentation does the Workers' Party really need to understand that they have to navigate differently in a new situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e116	First, I would like to thank you for your tips on what I should have chosen to use my speaking time for. In fact, the situation is that it is not the Labour Party that has changed its position and changed its policy since ours. It is the second party that has done, and I think it has been right for me to point out the situation that has arisen. Otherwise, I think I can show you the Workers' Party's history, and we're very familiar when I say that we've been able to make arrangements to change the framework as we need it, to meet new challenges. The problem is that the new government was guided primarily by ideology more than by the needs that arise – ideology that one should not have support schemes over the state budget, ideology that all taxes must be reduced, and not least an ideology that says that the state should get out of every company where it is inside today. I feel pretty sure that this policy is in no way more offensive or will be able to meet the new challenges better than the policy that the Labour Party has set up for several years, which, after all, has secured us full employment and huge profits from most businesses. Otherwise, I have noticed that this week's predictions about next year's predictions have been'remunerated' and better economic development for most people, etc. as a result of tax relief and the kind of things. I have, I have to say, difficult to believe that there will be a particular contribution to improving the competitive situation of the exposed part of our business.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e123	I have made up the proposal that all parties outside the Socialist Left have put themselves behind that goes on our sailors, and that the chairman of the Committee took up in his intervention. I think it is very positive that the representative Akselsen now supports a proposal to get an investigation as quickly as possible on how to strengthen the conditions for Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships. Because in this area, the Labour Party has not had any credibility. Both a Jagland government and a Stoltenberg government have in the past gone into the process of nullifying the reimbursement system for all seafarers, so I'm asking a question mark about the attack by the Akselsen representative on the cooperation parties in this area. It is true that Grete Knudsen greatly contributed to the lifting of a net pay regime for the ferry companies Color Line and Fjord Line, but that has also been done by the slow cooperation parties. But my question about the Axis is, can we count on a new line shift in the Workers' Party? If the investigation, which is to come quickly, shows that net pay schemes, for example: à la the model one has in Sweden, must for competitive shipping in Norway, and that subsidies to Norwegian seafarers must and are favourable, will the Workers' Party promise to follow this up, when they now submit a proposal for such an investigation on how to ensure the competitive conditions of Norwegian seafarers?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e130	This is a matter of a long history, and I'm not necessarily sure that I and the representative Hedstrøm can become a few about the history. However, it may be possible to agree that the Labour Party was the one that in its time had introduced the net pay arrangements for seafarers. Then there was a debate on the tax regime for shipping companies, where the Workers' Party had a different solution than the one that was chosen, which led to lower taxes on fleets, which, in our view, would mean that they could afford to pay their seafarers better. But enough about that part of the story. However, I would remind you that in recent years there has been a massive criticism of the Labour Party in this area, not least from the Right and Christian People's Party. So I think they've put the list higher for their parties than the Workers' Party has ever done, and so there's got to be a basis for saying that a surprise comes when one of the first governments does, is to remove the schemes that have been put in place to scare the Norwegian holidaymakers' laws and not least to secure the jobs of those who work in that industry. But not least this becomes strange when you see four years back in time, because actually one of the first things that the first Bondevik government did was also to reduce the reimbursement arrangements of seafarers, perpetuating what they had said in the election campaign, so here we have to be able to say that this must be one of the greatest promises at least so far in history. That being said, I feel that in this area there has been a lot of pingpong between the different political parties. There have still been proposals for changes to the framework conditions. What I hope now is that we can jointly sit down and find out where there is a need, and what needs exist, and then become a few things about what we are going to do, and that the reality then becomes the framework conditions that are laid down for this industry, so that we get a stability that allows those who work in the industry to know what framework conditions they have to stick to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e137	The next replicator is Inge Rien.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e140	Name's Ryan. I can mention it, so you remember it. I've been thinking about it from the pulpit many times in the course of the day – so that we get it right right away. The representative of Olav Aksensen was very concerned about the importance of agriculture for District Norway and was concerned about the reduction we see in agriculture, which is in the budget. The situation in recent years has been that there has been a massive decline in agriculture in the district of Norway. A number of farms have been delocated. We see that in many places in agriculture there is a dissatisfaction because the profitability is low, you don't make much money, and there is low recruitment to the profession. For many of these years, the Labour Party has been responsible for agricultural policy, and we have had agricultural ministers who, in my opinion, have helped to reduce Norwegian agriculture. Are the signals now coming from Akselsen, new signals from the Workers' Party, which recognise that agriculture is very important for rural policy in Norway? And do you want a new deal in Norwegian agricultural policy, where you try to build up a part of what you have built up?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e147	Thanks to Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e154	No, there's no new signal from the Workers' Party. The Labour Party has always believed that agriculture is very important for rural development and for housing in District Norway. I think I disagree with Ryan's representative in his presentation of what's happened in the last few years. There have been fewer additions in this industry, as in the vast majority of industries in Norway, but as in other industries, production has not only remained but increased. We think that one must have as a prime goal to make sure that it is possible to live on the use of the garden, and so through our policy has been committed to those who have gardening as a single income or as their main source of income. There is a policy that we want to pursue. Now, when I express my concern, it's primarily because one goes into the forefront of a negotiation and reduces the state's operating space, as a distance of 300 million. kr from the pot to be used in these negotiations. I must say that I am very surprised that the agricultural organisations have not reacted more strongly than they have now, and I feel pretty sure that if the Labour Party had done something like that, the criticism would have been massive, not only from the agricultural organizations, but also from some of the parties that are now in government. The Labour Party wants to pursue an active and offensive agricultural policy, but that does not mean that agricultural policy should be static, it must continue to adapt to the new situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e163	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e166	When the government parties today receive the budget of the Trade Committee through the support of the Advance Party, I appreciate it and use the opportunity to thank the Progress Party for constructive cooperation in the budgetary process – a cooperation that results in the strengthening of their budget lines by travel and petroleum vessels and wellboats. In this context, let me also make it clear to the Right that if we do not want to vote in favour of the minority proposals of the Progress Party, it is not because we are against all of these. It is very good in several of the proposals, but some of these have different financial bases than what we stand for today, and in addition, we know that the Government is working on some of the proposals promoted by the Progress Party. I am told that the content and outcome of today's debate have actually been very predictable. The Labour Party and the parties on the left-hand side want to pursue an industrial policy which, since the early 1990s, has almost systematically weakened the Norwegian competitive sector. The special situation we are in has made both business and, not least, the public sector little changeable. As a nation, we have more and more been given a situation where the road to success depends on high crude oil and gas prices, while at the same time a high dollar price contributes to ensuring high and stable revenues. There have been fewer and fewer employees in the competitive sector and more and more employees in the public sector. Developments in recent years have placed Norway near the bottom of the ranking lists in terms of productivity. We have had a significantly higher price increase in Norway than in the competing countries. High Norwegian krone price also creates difficulties for export companies. We have relaxed with regard to investment in research and development, and we have allowed ourselves a higher wage increase than most other countries. We have placed ourselves in a situation where we are facing an international economic downturn in having Europe's highest interest rate base. We have simply laid a poor foundation for meeting the new challenges facing our main markets. The new government wants to change the political course that has brought us into this situation. For this reason, the most important thing for us in this budgetary process has been to ensure that Norwegian enterprises generally have better framework conditions, and thus better conditions of competition. It has therefore been important to maintain the necessary budgetary rigour, while changing the year’s record increase in taxes and levies next year to record tax cuts. The parties who want a strong increase in government expenditure on the State budget must be willing to ask themselves whether there is no evidence at home on the path it is taking, when saying yes to expenditure increases, no to conversions and no to improving the conditions of competitive or export-oriented jobs. Today’s reality is that Norway has systematically lost market shares. Compensating for lost jobs in the competitive sector by bringing even more to the sheltered sector is no way to ensure the growth and development of the welfare state. In contrast, recent developments have made us more and more oil dependent, where as a nation we have more and more been awarded a stable and high price for our offshore products. As we know, we have no guarantee that high price developments in this sector will last forever. We face a difficult situation if the price of crude oil and gas changes negatively for us in the future. The OECD countries are currently experiencing their lowest growth in 20 years. The OECD, which in its latest report provides a very thought-provoking report on Norway, describes Norway as partly industrial and technologically outsourced, and says that as a nation, we are becoming more and more a pure commodity supplier, a nation that exploits little technology in industry, and in particular this relates to fisheries. According to the OECD, the outcome of this situation is a prediction of reduced growth. That's why it should be an overall goal for all parties today to have the first priority goal of getting Europe's highest interest rate foot to fall rapidly in the time we meet. That doesn't seem to be the case. A rapid fall in interest rates gives positive results for all sectors of a scale that cannot replace expenditure increases in the State budget. As mentioned earlier, the competitive and export-oriented jobs are mainly found in District Norway. The rural policies that have been pursued in Norway in recent years have contributed year after year to a centralisation wave, to population decline and to developments which clearly bear the mark of a fight against the obstacles to distance and competitive conditions for which it is difficult to master and in the districts. Therefore, it does not seem very credible when the opposition parties today and earlier in the financial debate repeatedly refer to the country’s instrument of instrumentation as the nation’s most important tool for the development of nutrition in District Norway, while the fact that the SND-related cuts are unmarked is dramatic and almost a reorganisation of the entire SND-institution. The fact is that the cuts for next year are at 14 p.m. in relation to the appropriations for 2001. The draft budget for the next year is approximately Two billion dollars to SND, and in addition, loan money comes. This reduction must necessarily be seen in the context of the significant tax relief proposed by the Cooperative Government. The removal of air passenger charges, the liquidation of dividend taxes, the introduction of an improved R & D deduction for business and the reduction of tax on employee options are proposals for measures that will greatly improve the business environment. The relief of SEK 1.5 billion through the elimination of double taxation on dividends should in itself have a greater impact on business than reduced appropriations for SND. Let me also say in this connection that it is more than strange to record that one of the strongest protests against the SND cut and protests against the Industrial Policy of the Cooperative Government comes from the SND itself – in my opinion an unacceptable and unacceptable conduct by the SND, which certainly delights some in the opposition, but which is hardly worthy of the institution as such. The adoption by the Minister of Industry of an overall review of the State’s instrumentation could contribute to a more targeted and thorough management of regional policy support measures and State innovation policies. I am pleased that the Ministry of Fisheries has set up a fisheries agreement for the coming years. This agreement places a significant emphasis on strengthening resource control. In this respect, I am pleased that the Ministry is following up the control measures and is following up the necessary measures against the so-called fish fox, which has been mentioned a great deal – a situation that almost contributes to putting parts of Norwegian fisheries in trouble, while at the same time helping to weaken our authority as a nation that is going to be at the forefront of international environmental and resource policy. The right also takes for granted that marine research becomes a field of activity as foreseen. With the framework provided by the Research Council and the Research Fund, as well as the improved incentives for R & D activities in industry, it is expected that programmes such as: research on new species can be followed up and intensified. This is not least the case in the areas of cod and cephalopod farming. It is not satisfactory that, in recent years, the marine sector could hardly be said to have been a major research priority. The right is therefore satisfied with the establishment by the Ministry of a Structural Fund to help improve capacity-adjustment for the fishing fleet. If the Norwegian fishing industry is to achieve the objectives and ambitions that many politicians have on behalf of the industry, it is necessary to reduce fishing overcapacity and strengthen market conditions. I am pleased that the Ministry is putting a lot of work into improving market conditions, whether they apply to the EU, including the salmon agreement, or in our WTO policy. In this regard, I am disappointed that the government parties were standing alone on their remarks regarding the future of Loran C. I ask the Council of State to assess the future of the Loran C station, also in the light of our security policy situation. In the end, I am pleased with the measures that the new Minister of Agriculture wants to take in relation to Norwegian agriculture, and I am also pleased to be able to register that it is a unanimous committee that is going in to improve the forest tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e194	Is it so that Ivar Kristiansen will make any suggestions, or is it the other one that presents them?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e197	I allow myself to take up the suggestions referred to in the position on which the Right stands with the Christian People's Party, and those who are on the Right with the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e202	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e207	I think it's going to be a mistake when the representative Ivar Kristiansen in a way makes the Workers' Party the most irresponsible in terms of industrial policy. For the last ten years, the Christian People's Party has largely agreed with us in the budgets. For two of them, at least the Right has given its connection. So a little bit about the rent. There is no doubt – we can agree – that the budget of the Stoltenberg government and the budget of the current government is aimed at reducing interest rates. There should be no doubt about that. There are many who are upset by the cuts that the Bondevik II administration has made. Right-wing people in the districts are shouting, and small and medium-sized enterprises as well. A lot of people go out in public. In a newspaper up north, there's a Right-Man who writes that it's wrong to cut in the SND. ‘When the government at the top of it all removes the filling of the municipal nutrition funds — which has been incredibly important for municipalities in the development of small business — it seems that the only way to do so is to find the hammer Edvard.’ It is claimed from the Government that the SND intercept is just the beginning. Then is my specific question: is the Right District Policy only tax havens and markets? The representative, Kristiansen, has also observed in his part of the country that he is going against a dry dock in Harstad. There is some uncertainty as to whether the Right is now in favour of that project. Can he now say that the Right is ready to agree with the majority who want to implement the project and will the Right ask the Government to make a concrete proposal in relation to the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e223	To take the last one first, I think it might have to be due to a misunderstanding. I refer to the position, where you will see fairly clear wordings such as the government parties and the Progress Party, in the case of dry docks in Harstad. I have no place or on any occasion reserved myself against the wording that is reproduced there. I think that eventually there could be a rather interesting discussion about who is going to unload this project in port, but I assume that we will have ample opportunity to come back to, possibly in connection with the revised national budget or in other contexts. I do not believe, as it is said here, that the Labour Party appears to be permanently irresponsible. What I mean is that when we have an international situation that changes, we also have to be willing from Norway to change policy and character and take into account the new challenges that we have around us. Few countries in this world have a more export-oriented business than just Norway. Specially, we'll find most of the value-creating business, which is also export-oriented, in District Norway. This is why we so clearly stress the need for framework conditions in Norway that do not differ dramatically from the conditions that our competitors abroad have. It is not then possible to meet the new challenges of being at the top of Europe in terms of interest rates. It is a competitive disadvantage that is so great that we see every day that the competitive sector, and in particular in District Norway, is losing ground. That policy wants the new government to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e230	The representative of Kristiansen briefed on agricultural policy. He actually gave tribute to the government council Sponheim for the tools that are now being deployed in this area. I looked through the setting to try to figure out what to do concretely to get more rational and efficient agricultural production. The only thing I can remember is that we are betting on this conversion programme. It is well and good with specialties, sanctuaries and this with organic production, etc. But I recall very well the Right and former agricultural spokesman Gabrielsen, who was closest to Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, former Minister of Agriculture, and said quite clearly that food prices must drop by 20 pst. in relation to our neighbouring country. I do not find very many measures in this setting that can contribute to it, so I wonder what the Right will press for. Prime Minister Bondevik clearly said in the Declaration of Accession that food prices in Norway should be reduced in relation to our neighbouring countries – it says ‘should’ in the Sem Declaration, but he reinforced it in his speech from this pulpit. Are those the old movements of the Right that are not now in the comments in the settings of the Right and Christian People's Party, the Right will try to work for the inside of the Government? I'm thinking about Gabrielsen's investment in increasing the opportunities for cooperative ventures. He also worked to get a higher concession limit of 50 jobs in the marketing of agricultural properties. Do you want to put agriculture under competition law, or what is it concrete like the Government, and the Right-Internal Government, will work on trying to bring down food prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e237	I believe that the so-called trade-off between the new Minister of Industry and the former Minister of Agriculture contributed positively to the strong focus on price developments in Norwegian agricultural products, and was also focused on the competitive situation in this area, which has developed to Norwegian disadvantage in relation to the consumer compared to the situation we find in the agricultural price sector in our neighbouring countries. I think what is the case now, which the new government places very great emphasis on, and which is also passed on from the previous government, is that in some areas, for the situation we have around the disease image outside the country, one has to navigate slightly different from what has been the case in the past. However, even the new government will not be able to do anything about the reduction we have in the number of actors in Norwegian agriculture, a reduction of approx. 2000 every two years. What I feel about the new government and the new Minister of Agriculture is to contribute to those who are mainly paying for their income from agriculture as their main income, by providing better and more robust units. In addition, the Hedstrom representative in the Sem declaration will find that the new government is also taking part in the concession policy, where the land limits are much more positive than we have seen in the past. It is not that in three weeks' work on the budget you can put everything in place in relation to a document that has a four-year horizon.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e250	I thought that the representative Kristiansen and I came from the same state, yes even the same region, I would tell you a little something new from home. I have just received a letter from home, a lot of letters I have received this fall. Some of those who have written to me are the Helgeland Regional Council, the municipality of Bø, the municipality of Vega, the regional council of Vesteraalen and the municipality of Traina. They write, among other things. that they are disappointed that the Government has zeroed out the municipal food funds. Helgeland Regional Council, e.g. to me: ‘Foundation is often a major step for the entrepreneur to take’... ‘not least in relation to the public bureaucracy. The role of the nutrition fund can be equated here with that of the midwife – the birth takes place with safe and good assistance, and a discussion partner has previously contributed with advice and guidance.’ I am fully aware that municipal nutrition funds are not being paid over their budgets, but because there has been so much focus on the shaving of the SND, the zeroing of the municipal nutrition funds has gained far less attention than they do fasten. In addition, SND, industrial funds, fiscal policy and R & D work are all just different approaches to the same issue: the public's role in business and district policy. For the sum of all cuts - cut in SND, zeroing of nutrition funds, AS-certification of everything that creeps and goes off of infrastructure and cut in R & D - send one message at a time: business can manage itself. It's not the role of the public to interfere in what way it's going to go; the chicken can kick where and who it wants. I don't know if it was meant to be healthful at home. But I want to health the representative Kristiansen with a question: doesn't the representative see the point that tax bills and 120 kroner cheaper air tickets can't come as any substitute for the public's efforts in terms of yield and access to risk capital, especially in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e265	I would like to thank you very much for your greeting from home, which gives me a sense of longevity. Even if I'm home at least once a day. week, thank you for that. Then you take up the reduction in the air fare. It's the first time in history that you can break the price curve on Europe's most expensive airline tickets and get it down. In the last year, Norwegian air fares have been brought to the top in terms of price levels in Europe. There is a level of fees in Norway that contributes to a third of what you pay for an airline ticket going into the state treasury in the form of charges. We have now made sure that we will soon be left with only one actor in Norwegian aviation serving the grid. This has been the effect of Norwegian tax policy in recent years. And for whom it's supposed to be a pleasure, I can't answer. I look with concern at the future on this occasion. Nor can there be a lack of growth in the public sector that makes you work in District Norway. Public employment has increased by 50 pst. since 1980. There is no European country that can point to growth in public employment, while growth in the competitive sector has fallen dramatically in Norway, as opposed to the situation outside its borders. I wonder how much evidence you need to have to see that you have to navigate differently politically, make it a little easier to run the competitive sector in District Norway than what you are willing to do today. I can assure the representative Elvik that I have good contact with some regional councils, but I also have very good contact with several companies and businesses, and I have not met one from the business community who wants to replace Bondevik's new budget with Stoltenberg's old one.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e276	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e279	First, I would like to take up some of the budget chapters for which I am responsible for the matter and which are important for industrial and industrial development in Norway, although it may not be the most important contributions as we see it. The purpose of the Patent Board, or the Industrial Protection Board, is to provide effective protection for inventions, trade marks and patterns against unwanted imitations. In the case of an inventor, such protection is a necessary competitive advantage and a prerequisite for the transfer of ownership and the conclusion of licensing agreements. Patenting work can be both complicated and costly and lead to significant time use. Over half of all inventions are actually inventions that have been made before. At the same time, we must be aware that a not insignificant proportion of the funds allocated to research and development is used for projects that others have already solved and that are documented in the patent literature. Here, the information department of the Patent Board is tasked by actively providing effective information services to prevent costly and unnecessary duplication of work and to increase interest in industrial rights and to seek the services of the Patent Board. If we go back a few years in time, there was a great dissatisfaction among inventors because the state served roughly on their need to protect their products. During the period 1989–95, the Patent Board went by 140 million. kr in profit. There were nice figures for the state, but nevertheless pleasant for inventors and other job creators. The precious arrangement scared creative Northmen from testing their ideas. It was too expensive to apply for patents and pay progressive annual fees. The operation of the Patent Board was originally provided for self-financing, i.e.: that the fee for the processing and annual fees for the protection of patent, trade mark and design rights shall be balanced against the expenditure of the Management Board. It was therefore necessary to do something in this area. The party subsequently succeeded in bringing together a majority behind the proposal to adapt revenue to the operation of the Patent Board in line with the requirement of self-financing. The current government reduced the fee rates for patents and trademarks. As the situation has developed, patent fees are at a favourable and lower level than in our neighbouring countries. It is nice that at least in one area we have lower fees. A small competitive advantage may be of importance, especially for individual patent applicants and small enterprises. The number of patent applications in this country has long been below the average in countries where comparison is natural. Because there is a clear link between patent activity and the industrial development of a country, there is every reason to take this seriously. Only 21 pst. last year’s patent applications came from Norwegian applicants. There has been no increase, despite the fact that we have been in a boom. It's thought-provoking that our own have not managed to gain a more dominant role at home. It is therefore important to stress the importance of the visibility of the services of the establishment through information and guidance work, in order to increase the interest in industrial rights. If a patent is not signed when the idea is good or if the rightholder allows the patent to go out by not paying the annual fee, it is primarily a personal loss, but it is also a national loss. Therefore, the Progress Party will go beyond the other batches by further reducing the fees. We believe that the expenditure and revenues of the Patent Board can be balanced at a lower level than today by reducing the tax rates on patents, trademarks and designs. It is a fact that foreign interests vacuum Europe for good ideas that lack patent protection. This negative trend is important to reverse. The Patent Board is planning the introduction of a new and complete IT system for processing, document flow and communication, the so-called SANT project. When fully operational, it will be time-saving and work-saving for customers, but it will also represent a rationalisation and efficiency gain for the Patent Board itself. It can provide cost reductions and, hopefully, lower rates in the long term. There is an overall committee that shows that it is expected to achieve efficiency gains after the project is completed, so that the number of residues and application time can be reduced. Another chapter that I am responsible for, the State Inventors' Guidance Office, has a unanimous committee in terms of appropriations for next year. The aim of the Guidance Office is to stimulate and contribute to industrial innovation in Norway. Good ideas are supported for commercially profitable production. The primary target group is stand-alone inventors, and the guidance office concentrates funds on fewer inventions and on projects with particularly high commercial development potential through development grants and inventor grants, or a combination of both. Inventors represent an important innovation resource and a contribution to the development of profitable projects and new jobs. Although they only have some pro-miles of what goes into research and development, they have been behind 20 pst. of the patents granted in Norway, while the research communities have achieved a lower share, we have to believe the statistics. This is a small reference to what can be left in development and product renewal. The matter which has attracted the greatest attention outside this House in connection with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy's budgetary procedure is the issue of state ownership. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Party of Advances, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, will not give the Government a general power of sale in respect of State holdings under the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The majority believe that it is important for the Storting to discuss, on a more fundamental basis, issues related to the exercise and extent of state ownership before any new commitment to changes in the country’s ownership positions is made. Having said that, the Government's desire to reduce the direct state ownership of Norwegian business is fully in line with the Advance Party's programme. However, we would stress that the path to achieving this objective satisfactorily for Norway requires far more comprehensive measures than the Government proposes. The major problem is the total imbalance that exists between a strong state and a weak private ownership. The sale of the State’s shares would mean little to strengthen private ownership in Norway if the sale of the country’s holdings went substantially to the rest of the world, as was the case with Telenor and Statoil. There is reason to believe that this will remain the case as long as a dominant share of savings takes place at the hands of the state. Therefore, our assessment is that a substantial sale of the state’s holdings must be conditional on a substantial strengthening, among other things. of the privately controlled savings to be made at home. The objective must be to build up ownership and management environments in Norway which can compete for the purchase of their holdings. The dispute over Kværner is a concrete example of the problems created by the lack of private ownership and capital resources in Norway. The Russian company Yukos could take over a significant shareholding in Kværner at a very low price because Norwegian owners lack capital strength enough to invest in such an uncertain investment. Yukos' investment was due to the need to gain access to Norwegian expertise in oil and gas extraction and offshore. Such competence could now be put on cheap sales because Norway lacks private owners who are able to compete. On the other hand, strong private ownership environments in Norway could give Yukos competition. The price of the company would be higher, which in turn would benefit Kværner's private shareholders. The strengthening of several ownership and management environments and instruments to achieve this should, in the opinion of the Progress Party, be central when the Storting will address the announced ownership message next year. This should include, inter alia: discusses how the Swedish Social Security Fund may be allowed to place funds in unit trusts. It is appropriate to investigate and discuss how and the consequences of the fact that parts of the Petroleum Fund can also be placed in Norwegian unit trusts. Furthermore, one can look at how a part of the state's current portfolio of shares, which is currently managed in an unprofessional, random and planless way by ministries, can be transferred to the Swedish Social Security Fund and a much more professional and unpolitical administration. In our opinion, the Swedish Social Security Fund, at least the supplementary pension scheme, should also be funded and substantial funds transferred from the Petroleum Fund to an enlarged and reorganised folklore fund, which may be divided into several independent funds. An important point in this context: Fund-based solutions are an instrument that will primarily strengthen institutional owners who manage the money of others and private personal owners who invest their own money. It is therefore important that our authorities also pursue a ownership policy that provides the basis for strengthening the active private ownership of Norwegian businesses, so that they can act as industrial owners. It is a fact that Norwegian private owners and investors are in Europe in terms of having strict tax conditions for industrial investment, which, in our view, require major changes in fiscal policy that ensure internationally competitive framework conditions for private owners and investors. We believe that this must be taken into account in the tax reform to be implemented for the taxation of food and capital. We are also committed to realising another possibility, that of giving some of the people's shares, which are now managed by the government, to the real owners: the Norwegian people. This will in itself provide the basis for new management environments and many new shareholders. It may not be reasonable for an empty land, plan or purpose to sell out the State’s shares in major companies, essentially what is considered attractive, to non-resident enterprises, in order to raise even more money that cannot be used to improve the conditions of the Norwegian population. Norway must not be allowed to remain largely a supplier of raw materials with impaired ability and ability to build up new knowledge industries in Norway. Success requires capital strength, broad competence and not least a long-term plan aimed at safeguarding national interests. When the Storting receives the ownership notification next year, all possible instruments for a national ownership strategy can be seen in context. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 5–15, which is referenced in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e318	The representative Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e323	Unfortunately, I don't have a line on patents. In my article I asked some questions about the Christian People's Party's turn in relation to the position they had in ours. I'm wondering a little bit about what happened to this party. However, when reading the configuration, there must be a reason to ask the same question to the Progress Party. Because while the Progress Party in ours would put down the SND and remove all the permissions, now the Progress Party is suddenly against all the cuts. If you didn't know better, you could get the impression that there was a typographical error here, and in case of a mistake, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have changed their names. Because it is actually the fact that the Progress Party no is almost in all pluralities, in fact with the Labour Party, SV and the Center Party, as the Christian People's Party has been in previous years. And then it has to be allowed to ask: what has happened that makes the Progress Party actually want to lead an offensive district and industrial policy and be against these cuts? For me, it's a paradox that the Progress Party will allow 400 million. kr more than the Christian People's Party to SND. I'd like to ask the representative Hedstrom if he thought it was a hard blow to vote against the Progress Party's new and offensive district and industrial policy to save the rails of the new Bondevik government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e332	I would like to thank the chairman of the committee for this question, which is a very good answer: the Progress Party had – like all the other parties, I expect – when we entered this four-year period at Stortinget, finished the programming process at its national meeting. In the case of SND, a clear change has been made to the programme formulations. And it says that we have to – and now I have to take it after memory – gradually reduce the subsidies to SND as we receive reduced taxes and taxes. This means that the faster the co-operation administration over this four-year period will be able to reduce taxes and taxes, the faster we can also support the co-operation government's proposal to reduce the appropriations for SND. But in our SND-cut, in some cases, we're on the right track. 2420, which concerns general arrangements, together with the Workers' Party, and on a number of other items, we have settled between the Cooperative Government and the Workers' Party just to follow up the programme formulations. In terms of part of the innovative bit of the BIT and FUNN programmes, etc., we also think that this has a moral side. After all, when these programmes are in place, all batches should be concerned with providing long-term, predictable framework conditions. So even if we could also have sympathy for cutting a lot, we think it is right to take it step by step, so that industry and business in Norway can adapt to the new framework conditions. But, like the Government, we also want to support the Hervik Committee's proposals on R & D schemes and tax deductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e339	The representative Hedstrøm, who is a nutritionist in the Progress Party, was little involved in agriculture in his speech. I understand that so far, when we know that the Progress Party wants to reduce agricultural transfers by almost 5 billion kroner. We know that the holder today has a number of tasks in Norwegian society. First, we want him to produce good and safe food. We want to have a food preparation in this country that we have not least been reminded in the last year of the importance of. We want to take care of a cultural landscape such as: the tourism industry and other business sectors are involved and we want it to contribute to living rural areas. My question to the representative Hedstrøm will therefore be: Does Hedstrøm believe that we are able to maintain living rural areas and good food preparedness, and that we will be able to take care of our cultural landscape if we reduce the agricultural investment by nearly DKK 5 billion per year. years?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e348	The agricultural policy pursued today has changed very little. There was a trend towards change a few years ago. It was in the early 1990s, when Gunhild Eyeyang had the courage to promote a collapse proposition, Developed Agriculture, where she dared to suggest that consumers and the cost of food production in Norway should also be taken into account. We all know that our former Minister of Agriculture got a lot of shut-down from the special interest groups in the agricultural sector. But from then on it has been very small. Most of the legislation has its origin in the interwar period. Agricultural settlement system, etc. left in all other countries. Sweden left it over ten years ago, and they have a completely different thinking. We want to look at the practitioners, the agricultural operators, as self-employed in the food production industry. We want to stimulate with greater freedom for these actors and reduce agricultural transfers. To give an example of the failure of the policy that has been pursued throughout the year: from 1976 to 1997, the transfers were, if we included the protection aid, approximately. 500 billion kroner, and in this period we had the largest population movement from the districts to the central strut. We got over half of the number of farmers – a policy that everyone must realize was a failure. That's why we want to do this differently. By providing good, general framework conditions and ending agriculture with a backbone of rural policy, we believe that the Norwegian farmer will have a chance in the future when this room with the WTO and other international bodies decides on agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e353	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e356	I'm going to start the article from SV by talking about food. Because there's something all the nordics are in touch with every day, it's food. People want good food, but people don't want safe food at all, you want to be sure that what you eat is good for health. Many of us have wondered why there is so much cancer in society. When you sit at a hospital with a 25-year-old who has cancer, you wonder why. And you get reminded again and again that we're still getting diseases that get very serious outcomes. Many of us have also thought: is there anything about food, is there anything about our environment, is there anything about what we put in us, that makes us get such diseases? I think most families are being affected by that kind of problem. Therefore, we must constantly intensify our efforts to get as safe food as possible. That's getting 100 pst. organic farming is not possible. However, it is possible to obtain an organic farming where sprays and artificial additives have been removed. It is also possible to get more organic farming than we have today. Today we produce approx. 2 pst. Organic. The goal for Norway is to reach 10 p.m., but then we have to be willing to take action, so that it can happen. We're a retard in this area compared to some of our neighboring countries. The thing about safe food is important. But if we're going to have safe food, someone has to cook that food. My party is very concerned about how we're going to get young people to take over farms today. We know that many of the young people who are noblemen or noblemen are intended to take over farms. Why does that happen? First of all, it happens because you see that you have a relatively low income for a lot of uses. You have to work a lot to make $200,000. Another important reason is that the peasantry has gradually become one of the most lonely jobs we have in society. You go alone in the spring, you're alone with the cattle, and when you get in, the rest of the family has gone to school and work. Then you're on the tractor alone, and then you're left alone in the spring in the evening. Many people experience the job as a farmer as a very lonely job. A third reason that I want to highlight is this with little vacation and leisure time. There is little holiday and leisure time compared to many other professional groups, when you feel that after weekend you have to get up at 7:00 p.m. and work, while other groups can get free. I think that if we're going to get young people to take over a lot of the farms that we have around the country, there's got to be a lot of work going on recruiting. And it's not enough to say it in beautiful words in Stortinget, it has to be set aside. This is why SV wants us to spend considerable resources in the years to come to motivate recruitment in agriculture. A third area we see is important within the food page, this is with animal welfare. There's been a part of animal welfare. It's good to drive through the Trøndelag when you see that the cows are out in the summer. I think it's good to see the cows out again. It's not that many years since the cows were supposed to be in prison all year long. But we have a long way to go. Why should the cows lie on hard concrete floors? Why can't the cows be allowed to lie on mats, so they're feeling better in the forehead than they have today? And why shouldn't it be possible for the cows to take a trip out in winter to get aired, so they're better off? These were just examples. I could well mention a lot of examples that we have a long way to go in relation to animal welfare. And therefore, SV meets the big message that we will receive during the winter, as we will discuss this matter in more detail. Enough food. When I read the proposal from the Government, I wrote the following in my notebook: Norwegian district policy is dead. Yeah, I mean it. We have had an active district policy in Norway for many years. We've had the District Development Fund, which built this country after the war. In my opinion, an excellent job was done for many years. Then you got a reorganization to SND, and we got a significant downward slope. SND was in the early stages a major step backwards in terms of districts and focus on industrial development in districts. In a few years, SND has corrected something. They've got a job with the district division and set up some offices around the country, which means that people not only get money, but considerable guidance and advice when they're going to set up or develop their business. We now experience that this is being demolished. In the budgetary framework now being laid down, it is expected that SND will actually have to build up the rural structure that has been built up in recent years. In addition, much less money can be spent on start-ups. As previous rapporteur, I know how important it is when you are going to have business development in a municipality, that you have an instrument that also has some money to distribute. It's not like in rural areas that banks are in line to help someone start their first business, with a couple of hundred thousand. It's not like that. One depends on having someone who actually dares to invest risk capital into those who are going to start a business for the first time or who is going to expand their business. I'm really worried about what we're seeing right now. Treasurettes, they're told, they're supposed to help. It is not taxable one who is going to start up the business for the first time, needs, because he has no income, he has nothing to pay taxes on. There's a completely different problem we're talking about. I spend two to three days a month traveling around the business world in my own country, and then people – from the Progress Party to SV – in the business world are puzzled about now reducing this scheme, which is really too bad from before, but which is now getting even worse. And I have to say that I'm surprised that you're tightening up at this point, a time when business is actually in reverse. We see that salmon revenues are going down, we see that the IT industry is struggling, and in some other areas, we also have counter-grounds. At home in the Nams Forest, where I come from, we use fire in the oven when it gets cold. The government puts the door wide open when it gets cold, and lets in even more cold air. It's a strange way to behave, but there may be other customs in the city than in the countryside. We have an article of SND called SND Invest. It's been working for a few years. We know that SND Invest has invested in a number of companies around Norway. But according to the latest statistics from SND Invest, which I have here – it's broken down on the counties – SND has invested in 55 companies in Oslo and Akershus. How many, then, have they invested in the district district of Nord-Trøndelag? Yes, in one company. And in the district district of Aust-Agder? Two companies. SND Invest has become a body that, according to SV’s assessment, uses too much resources to inject into key strokes, which help to strengthen centralisation. If there are areas in the country where access to capital can be used, it is in central terms. That's not where to inject more capital. We have to inject the capital where the lack of capital is greater, if we really think that we want to stop centralisation in Norwegian society. That's why SV says in a comment that we're alone about, that we want to start selling out the state's shares in SND Invest in the central banks, and the money we get for it, we're going to spend on a whole new district fund in economically poor areas in Norway. It's a practical district policy where we get the temperature down a little bit in central lines, and then we move the funds and get the activity up on the outskirts. We do that because SV doesn't just say that we want an active district policy, but we're doing something about it. Time goes away from me, I see, so I have to be short about state ownership eventually. We are very surprised that the Government wants to sell out state property. In a situation where Norway already has too much money, we find it strange that we are going to get even more money – and even more problems with the money that we are getting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e389	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e392	SV has been one of the parties that has produced the cuts in the SND as a rage of the districts. They have clearly not recorded that the cuts are total only 14.2 p.m. and that the largest cut has been made in the nationwide measures, not in the district measures. We are in favour of an effective SND that uses allocated funds to support businesses in the districts, not to build a larger and larger internal administration. We want an SND to help where the private capital market does not serve district policy. We do not want an SND to act as a risk-bearing investor with the pay slip of Norwegian taxpayers. My question to SV is therefore: Does SV really believe that it is right that we politicians through SND should act as one of the country's largest risk-taking investors, and that with taxpayers' money? Or does SV see our point that the total instrument needs to be reviewed to ensure that the funds come to the businesses for which they were originally intended?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e401	We have the system in this society that we pay a lot of taxes, and that looks like SV is good. That tax shall be used to optimise the development of Norwegian society. If we are to develop the Norwegian society in the best possible way, SV believes that it is important that we have a scattered settlement where we take care of natural resources and that people can live around this country. In order to do that, it is absolutely necessary that you have a state that is willing to go into some enterprises with capital. We don't say all companies, because there are some companies where the private banking market actually works well enough. But in a very large number of companies, in District Norway in particular, but also in central areas, it is necessary to have access to capital to re-establish the activity of creating jobs. And I think that if you hadn't had an active state in the years after the war, our country would have looked completely different from what it does today. So SV wants to have a state that is willing to spend money on establishing jobs across the country, and especially in the underprivileged areas where you see that there are problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e406	I noticed that Inge Ryan was busy that Hedstrom was not in the field of agricultural policy, and I noticed that Ryan was not in the field of fisheries. If it has the same reason as what he claimed was the reason Hedstrom left behind, the time will show. What I also noticed was that Ryan in his post mentioned how important it was to recruit, and how hopeless it was for the farmer to be lonely and have a lack of vacation and leisure time. And I agree with that. I think so. So the Socialist Left says in its remarks that recruitment in the fishing industry is important. At the same time, however, we must bet on coastal fishing. Then my question is, how is it possible? Because it's a profession that's also characterized by a lack of leisure time, too little vacation, it's fishing. We know that today's fishing is the offshore fleet, which has two crews, one out for four weeks and home for four weeks. And the only fleet in Norwegian fishing that can handle this is the sea-going fleet. It cannot compete with the coastal fleet. Then my question is: how do fishermen, with their policy, get the possibility of longer holidays, more leisure time, when they have to have just coastal fishing, as SV has suggested in their programme and in their comments? It's incomprehensible to me how one should be able to get such goals to go together.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e415	The reason why I was not concerned with this issue of fisheries is that we have an excellent fisheries policy in the SV, which should have the floor later in the debate. That's why we've distributed it this way. But I will answer the representative, Solholm, to the question. We want far more coastal fishing than what we have today – but not just coastal fishing – and it has to do with the fact that we are concerned that there is a resource situation in which we see that some of the seagoing vessels operate excessive taxation of fishing resources. This is a serious problem that we have to tackle. And I don't agree with the representative of Solholm that young people don't want to run coastal fishing. We know that it is actually a problem for many young people to get a concession and be allowed to go out by boat and fish. I am also fully aware that some prefer to be on trawlers or on sea fishing. We have both groups. SV is concerned that we should have both sea fishing and coastal fishing, but we need to make a significant change, where more of the effort is directed towards coastal fishing. It's especially because it's much more environmentally friendly, and much better for the resources we have in the ocean.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e424	I appreciate the positive commitment that Inge Ryan has when it comes to agriculture, his assessment of the possibilities and the issues within this sector and his commitment to securing a secure future for agriculture. There I feel that he is shoulder to shoulder with the Government. But I'm going to stun when the next sentence is: ‘Norwegian district policy is dead’. In my opinion, it's a rough rhetorical sentence that doesn't have any content. I am a little surprised that such strong expressions can be accepted by a representative of the big business. The reason for this strong expression is that SND will be cut from DKK 2.21 billion to DKK 1.92 billion, a cut of 2-3 hundred million, plus the removal of a low-risk capital that the banks are in line to take over and criticise that we are giving the whole thing. This modest cut must therefore lead to the death of ‘Norwegian district policy’. I want to ask a user to have a language that is understood and respected later, and not to overdo it as it has been a tendency for both the SV, the Labour Party and the Center Party to have done in connection with the SND cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e434	The late Prime Minister Olof Palme said that politics is about to happen. When I use the term ‘Norwegian district policy is dead’, I believe that today there is no willingness to pursue an active district policy. When you decrease by 300 million. kr to farmers before the start of the agricultural negotiations, while other groups will have to have significant wage increases, when we look at a number of the decisions that will be taken by this increase before Christmas, whether it be on the road side, on the business side or in a number of other areas, it is such a serious attack on the active Norwegian regional policy which has been driven after the war that I dare to say that it is no longer a will for an active rural policy. Today, half of Norway’s municipalities experience delocalisation. I come from a municipality that has halved its population in 20 years. We, who live in the field, see the result of a lack of active district policy. The result is a significant depletion, and it cannot continue if we want to maintain the settlement. Therefore, strong words from this pulpit must be used to raise the eyes of the 165 people who are responsible for governing – not just the cities, but the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e441	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e444	Norwegian business is strong and has long had a good development. With the framework conditions provided by the State budget for 2002, this should facilitate further growth. With unusually large tax relief, the basis is for a moderate wage settlement for spring. If this is the result, the competitive situation will be further strengthened for Norwegian businesses and jobs will be safer. A moderate wage settlement will also be important and necessary for a Norwegian interest rate decrease next year. The responsibility for a moderate input is great for the social partners. The country with its instruments shall have a nutritional dynamic exposure. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has announced a review of the approx. 15 support schemes in place by the Ministry, to make them the most targeted and targeted, and to feed them into applications where the benefits are greatest, at the start-up stage. This public, nutrient dynamic pressure should be strong in the future as well. The Christian People's Party wants the public to have a key role in the establishment phase of the idea product and commercialisation of the enterprises in development. Government tools should be particularly useful in the development phase of enterprises until they have been given footholds and can more easily acquire low-risk capital from the private or public market. In 2002, the dividend tax will be abolished. One calculates that it will release $1.5 billion. The fact that industry now retains a greater share of its own value creation leads to an expectation that it will benefit the business community to reinvest and strengthen its own foundations and investment in new businesses. This should more than compensate for the cut-off in the back-up arrangements through the SND. Only this tax change weighs up the cut of 14 pst. carried by SND. In particular, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party have given totally exaggerated characteristics of this. Coupling good projects in districts and risk capital is a challenge that SND should address. Here, the Government will make arrangements for tax incentives for private investors to contribute risk capital to new entrants. We want to consider whether parts of the SND's business should be offered. It will also be able to stimulate local savings banks to strengthen their own rating functions and thus contribute to business development. The low risk loan is cut at DKK 0.5 billion. It's interesting that the private banks have criticized us for cutting too little in these loans. These loans will give them more money than they have to compete with. The cooperation management has opened up a larger investment in research from business – a favourable 20 pst scheme. exemption from R & D effort. Derogation for an effort of up to 4 million. NOK, and in special ratios up to 8 million. kr, will be introduced next year for enterprises up to 100 added. This is a good tool for getting Norwegian research efforts up at OECD level. The public has a great deal of research in Norway today. These new schemes will help private business to become a stronger player in the innovative arena. They will then be able to guide and target research efforts to meet their own needs. It is also positive that the investment levy disappeared during 2002 — a strong signal that innovation and investment are important, and a major real relief from the financial burden on business. The center management started the project for a simpler Norway. The co-operation management will put a new emphasis on making it easier for business. Both removing minor claims and reducing the flow of new legislation are important. Letting regulations go out on date can be an interesting thought. Now, all regulations should facilitate a rapid fall in interest rates – not least business will have a good gain. At the same time, price developments are forecasting low. This is also a positive commitment for a good year for business in 2002. The cooperation regime, similar to the former central government, is working for a new one in agricultural policy. For this important and traditional part of Norwegian business life, safe and long-term framework conditions are necessary. This government will provide this agricultural security. Our contribution as politicians to some pressured nourishment should be to stop this work and provide a basis for safe food quality and necessary production. Today we have approx. 50 pst. self-sufficiency in Norway. This is not too much. With political complacency about the framework conditions, agriculture can have a constructive focus on its own development and on a constructive, rational and secure future. Today, the industry has two fronts: firstly, to renew and develop agriculture; and secondly, to decision-makers and a press that often focuses critically and negatively on agriculture. Greater support and calmness for the development of agriculture would firstly provide the industry with security of maintenance and investment, and secondly, the recruitment of the industry would be strengthened. These are both important elements of agriculture in Norway. The Qatar WTO round gave a number of clear signals that we have a far-reaching right of access to domestic agriculture, and that is important for Norway. At the same time, export aid for agricultural products is limited. This will lead to an increase in prices on the international market, becoming somewhat more realistic and not removed from the Norwegian price level. Agriculture receives its main incomes determined by prices, transfers and taxes. VAT is halved this year and food prices are reduced accordingly. The 2002 budget proposes a cut of 300 million. D in connection with the agricultural negotiations. The government underlines that this is not a nutrient income reduction signal. The government will come back to our Biggest to bring about changes in the tax regime for agriculture, which will compensate for this expected reduction in income. I repeat that there is no signal of a decline in income – it is well because one has expected it, that there have been such reactions in the professional community when this is the case. The process of a public health and animal survey is well under way. Parent for the Government is that agriculture should have a new give. Agriculture has important administrative tasks, is the backbone of our rural policy and is of great importance to the country. Research efforts in agriculture should seek to develop new products that can help the industry, provide better and cheaper inputs and increase the potential for increased incomes in an environmentally friendly way. Developing 10 pst is an important goal, not least for environmental reasons. of organic farming by 2010. It will require an offensive effort and motivation in an interaction with industry, guidance services and the public. Following the accession decision of the late 1970s, extensive renewal and modernisation of agriculture is now needed. Here the Ministry should evaluate with the organisations whether a targeted modernisation package can be used to meet this need. The cooperation management will work for a strengthening of agriculture. This should be done in close cooperation with the professional organisations. I look forward to an evolving process in which agriculture can face a change in development in a constructive way, which will secure this industry's self-sponsored place in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e486	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e489	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the representative, Mr Gedrem, for a good cooperation in the Business Committee. We also share a number of points of view, at least subsidiaryly. But there's one thing I'm a little uncertain about, and it's about the Christian People's Party's view of state ownership. I remember that we for approx. two years ago, the case concerning Hydro's purchase of Saga Petroleum, where Hydro reduced its State holding from approximately 50 %. 51 pst. to 43 pst. Then the Christian People's Party was an active driver together with the Center Party, I think it was the Center Party that made a proposal primarily, to increase this ownership of the state up to 51 p.m. again. The representatives of the Christian People's Party expressed their desire for strong governance and control in this company. In a proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party in the vote, the Christian People's Party now wants to give a power of sale to 34 pst. in Hydro. There is a difference that is significant when we look at the values of this company. I've been trying to see in the Christian People's Party program if there's any change in the program management in the Christian People's Party at the last national meeting, but I can't find it. I would like to have a briefing from the representative Gedrem on whether this is a political turnaround, or whether the party has changed its overall position on ownership of Norsk Hydro and in relation to the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e499	I just want to return a thank you to the Progress Party and Øystein Hedstrom for a constructive cooperation in the Business Committee. So to the real question of state ownership and Christian People's Party's attitude. The Christian People's Party does not have an ideological attitude towards who should own the different businesses, it is more time-dependent and situation-dependent. For the Christian People's Party, it's important when it comes to a company like Norsk Hydro, which manages so much of the Norwegian national wealth, that we have a certain impact. We have recorded that we have come under 50 pst. Now, but the actual barrier turns out to be 34 pst in practice. Then there is an adequate right of governance to get the important strategic decisions made by one of the most important industrial locomotives in the country. So as we assess the situation today, it will be safe enough to have down to 34 pst. We then have the ability to steer effectively and adequately to achieve our goal. That is the explanation I can support in our proposal in the State budget that has been presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e506	This is almost a little bit sad. Locally, I am water with a Christian People's Party that acts as an ally in regional and industrial policy, a Christian People's Party that is concerned that there should be equal conditions for business development throughout the country, a Christian People's Party that is committed to more market management leading to more centralisation, and a Christian People's Party that realizes that equal conditions involve political governance. But it is not this Christian People's Party that I meet in the National Assembly, on the contrary. Today I wake up to news that a Christian People's Party leadership is making a compromise with the Progress Party on the Transport Budget as well. means AS-certification of Posten, NSB, the Swedish Railway Agency, the Swedish Aviation Agency, and I don't know if I got the rest with me. In other words, strategic companies that decide that the infrastructure in the whole country is somewhat similar. This infrastructure shall comply with the laws of the market. So this comes to the top of the SND, to the top of the nutrition funds and to the top of the R & D work, cut as one has done to find room for the Government’s ‘other priorities’, which it is called in the additional proposition. And what are these other priorities? Treasurette is the only thing I found. But as the Haugaland Council writes in a letter to us in the committee: ‘Taxettes are not an action that stimulates new entrants to product development and business start-up.’ I don't know if I can claim from this pulpit that the Christian People's Party has sold it. It might as well, because I don't have the will to discuss the administration of a Christian People's Party. But I dare say from this pulpit that the Christian People's Party has chosen the wrong side. And that's why I want to challenge the Christian People's Party on the following: Is it the wallet that has prevented the party, or is it an overall assessment of what one gets for the Prime Minister's position that has prevented the party? Or is the ideological assessment that has prevented the party from maintaining SND, maintaining the agricultural agreement and maintaining a nutrition R & D work, to name something that is aged? And finally, has the Christian People's Party once and for all decided that tax relief is the only useful tool for food and district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e516	I hope and believe that the Christian People's Party can still have close and close cooperation with SV on regional policy issues. In the two parties there are a lot of collapsing stops, and the Christian People's Party has in all its history had a warm heart for the districts and worked to counteract the centralization forces that have taken over in Norway in the last hundred years. We're trying to develop measures and attitudes for people to see the value of living in the districts. It's actually encouraging to see that a majority of the Norwegian people actually want to live in the districts – it's a turnaround. Despite the fact that we have a real decline in the population in half of the municipalities, there is evidence that it may be possible for people to start seeing the values, to search out and use the whole country. So it was this cut that I again feel is being overdramatized. A cut of SND from SEK 2.21 billion to SEK 1.92 billion is not a crash of a tool to be more targeted towards the districts. This is a 14 pst cut. Then the Working Party cut about. 20 pst. in the revised national budget last year, there were no such headings, although the remaining budget lines were almost zero out. It was explained that in practice, there is no support and no support for these entries. This is a less dramatic change, which we compensate for by other measures: tax relief for well-established companies that can reinvest. For initial investment and start-up, we need to have these measures to an even greater extent than we have today. We have to feed it into these groups. Tax havens can be a means, and I believe that today business actually needs it to be able to approach the European level. I think what happens now is healthy, and we can defend it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e525	It is in a way a little sad to stand here today and take a line on the Christian People's Party – sad, but unfortunately absolutely necessary – because I hardly know the Christian People's Party again from the time we were together in the centre cooperation. Not only has the party been involved in extensive cuttings in the SND and on the agricultural side, but the Christian People's Party also appears to be participating in a comprehensive sale of state ownership and in a strong transformation of business into AS. It is a development that the Christian People's Party knows will have negative consequences for many offers not least in the districts beyond the country. And it's a policy that the Christian People's Party has never stood for before. The right spokesman tried to minimize this earlier today by calling it a predictable debate from the opposition parties. No, it's not, unfortunately, it's the point of a serious envoy. It is a sad fact that the new thing in the budget position today is not that the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the SV are in charge, but that the Christian People's Party is not with us. Gedrem was busy with the newcomers. But it is precisely those who are more newly established today, who are now being hit. The dividend tax cannot compensate for a new entrant who has not earned any particular profit. It's not long since the Christian People's Party representatives in the Finance Committee called it a district policy saying that they got a cut in low-risk loans from DKK 1 billion to SEK 500 million. kr. Today, Gedrem is calling the whole scheme a problem in relation to private banks. It's not quite in the jump. It is also remarkable that, if you want to strengthen agriculture, you start by reducing the agricultural framework by 300 million. kr. This is Right-wing Policy, and my question has to be: Where does the boundary of what the Christian People's Party can be involved in? When do they stop? I wonder. The Minister of Industry says that this is just the beginning of a major change in business policy away from specific business measures and across to general tax reliefs. Has the Christian People's Party intended to be involved in that change of course, or when will it be enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e536	I hope that in the future we will be able to stand in a close partnership with the Centre Party in the work of strengthening districts and towns. If in some contexts the tools may be somewhat different, the goal is the same. We can discuss who may be making a change in agricultural or district policy. But as I have tried to underline in my previous answers here and in my post, I do not feel that the changes that are now being made to the budget decision in Stortinget are dramatic. It's an adjustment and a conversion, and I can show historical to larger conversions in the past that have received less attention than the very focus that has been on the changes that are now taking place. SND and the non-refillable food funds are cut down next year. But there is no definitive stop for them, but an assessment to get the most use and use of them. Agriculture is also zero on the map, but, as I said, the Government's intention is to bring back a corresponding tax package. So this is not a negative signal to agriculture, and I'm asking for that to be trusted. The hall is a practical arrangement, and there's actually some other party that there's reason to ask questions about here in the Storing today. They've previously argued for something they're going against tonight, and it's about the question of halls, so I feel that there's equal reason, perhaps greater reason, to attach attention to. New entrants shall be given an added emphasis and a greater share of the work shall be provided in accordance with the comments made in the budget decision. When it's about 1.5 billion and cut by 1⁄2 billion, I was also a little worried about it and asked for it to be raised, and it was raised from 1 billion to 1.5 billion. But I ran away when I got the counter-reaction from the banks: we don't want a state that competes with us about these loans, we can do it ourselves. We've got enough strength to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e549	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e552	The proposal of the Central Party for a budget in the areas we are discussing tonight would, overall, have given almost DKK 1 billion more to the development of agriculture and fisheries than the proposal that will be adopted today. It also means that our option would have opened up more offensive business development and given us new opportunities to invest in primary industries. We have to note that a majority in the Storting will do so differently. The proposal of the centre party would also – and I would like to mention in particular two proposals on which the centre party has been involved in the budgetary process – have facilitated the situation of new entrants by removing the registration fee at the Brønn Island Health Registers. It is a good and targeted tax bill that I am surprised that the other parties have not wanted to contribute to. The centre party also wishes to maintain the so-called FUNN scheme. In our opinion, it has in a short time become very popular in business, it is easy to manage, and contributes to increased research in areas where we need it most, namely in newly established businesses and in small businesses. The budget for the industrial sector, which we are dealing with today, is marked by a significant change in price. There is a change in course that has caused strong reactions, not least in the business community in the districts. The reactions have come from all over the country, from individual companies and from stakeholder organisations, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. NHO and, in fact, also the Business Federation, by all. The change in course we are now witnessing is of great concern to the Center Party. We want an active and targeted industrial policy, with a strong rate in the marine sector, with a high rate of ICT activity, to contribute to new start-ups and also to small businesses. We must record that the budget that will be adopted today will weaken that possibility. One of the strangest and incomprehensible cuts in the budget is nearly 300 million. kr taken from the SND business. In addition, the loan framework for low-risk loans has been greatly reduced. SND plays a very important role in helping entrepreneurs and small businesses in a difficult start-up phase. They also contribute significantly to growth industries, such as the IT industry and the marine sector. And when the entire SND's commitment to industrial development in the marine sector is removed, it's going to have the opportunity to build up value creation right in this area. There is little doubt that there has been a Right-wing driver to cut down on the selective commercial aid in favour of general tax relief. In practice, this policy will benefit cities and large businesses. Or, to put it another way: in order to benefit from the Right-wing policy, one should preferably be well established and preferably as large as possible. For new entrants, tax relief is not the most important thing to get started, nor is it enough to get so high that you actually have a profit to pay taxes on. And for small businesses in District Norway, the supply of capital is not always as overwhelming as Ryan's representative was. There is a need for a cooperative between public and private enterprises. I believe that the policy that has now been pursued in relation to food aid is a policy that can cost Norway dearly at a time when there is more uncertainty about the economic situation and because it is more important than ever to stimulate innovation and re-establishment. Another main point in the budget, in which the Government has fortunately not obtained a majority, concerns the issue of the sale of state ownership. At this point, the Government wanted extensive powers without the question being discussed in advance. I am pleased that the Progress Party here contributes to a majority to get a thorough review of the issue before considering the realities of the sale of state ownership. These are crucial societal issues, and require political parties to take the time to know what they want in terms of state ownership, both in terms of its scope and how it should be exercised. Unfortunately, political history shows that in politics we have been far too little aware of how we handle state ownership. The Central Party has chosen a completely different approach to agricultural policy from that chosen by the Government. We've noticed that the government says it wants a decentralised agriculture with a varied structure of use. If you want to add some content to that wording, you also have to be willing to give a new price in relation to that budget alerts. It is not wise to start by cutting the agricultural negotiations frames by 300 million. NOK or, in fact, more than NOK 8 000 per year. annual work. If we are to achieve a decentralized agriculture, we must be willing to increase transfers while giving tax relief to the industry. Here the Government decides to reduce the amount of one, to notify tax changes in the next round. In the fisheries sector, the Committee has gathered very well, but also in this area, the Centre Party is concerned about the reductions proposed by the Government. It doesn't make sense to reduce the appropriations, for example. to the Directorate of Fisheries and to some other items in order to increase investment in value creation. For the sake of order, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the central part of the setting on page 6, left column, sections three and four, is contained in a majority where we obviously shouldn't be included. There is an error which has not been corrected by your print configuration. I would also like to mention the proposal No. 3 and 4 by the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party and proposal No. 16 from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e583	The President has noticed that Marit Arnstad has fixed a mistake in the setting, and also that the representative has drawn up the proposals to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e588	I notice that the representative Arnstad in his contribution places emphasis on transfers in agricultural policy. I've never been in doubt about the Central Party's sincere commitment to agricultural policy and district policy, but I understand that the prescription is always about increasing transfers. I want to challenge the representative Arnstad on the signals that have come in both the budget and from the Government otherwise in terms of softening legislation, and in terms of opening up opportunities to the diversity that the representative in and of itself also uses, but that we have hardly seen any flowering in particular within the strict regulation we have today. The question to the representative Arnstad is: is the Centre in its discussion on agricultural and district policy willing to look at instruments other than crowns and ears?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e597	The representative Momyr indicates that the centre party is very concerned about agricultural transfers. Yes, we are. We believe that it is absolutely necessary to have transfers to an agricultural sector that is so decentralised, which is so small-scale — and it is positive in this sense — and which operates in such a climate as that of Norwegian agriculture. It's necessary whether it's at Skatval or it's out in Åfjord. That's why we're also going to work to maintain a high level of transmission. That doesn't mean we're not willing to look at other instruments. To put it this way: I believe that the farmers in the agricultural industry today are so stressed that I am willing to look at almost anything to make their situation better. This applies not least to tax arrangements, where, in the context of the financial position, the Centre proposed a deduction of income for agricultural industry operators, which we consider necessary as an addition to what can be done through price mechanisms and transfer mechanisms. These are depreciation rules, which can benefit industry, and there is a scheme on the forest side for which we now have a majority in this Chamber, namely an extended and improved forest tax system. I would like to look at the possibility of simplifying legislation relating to agriculture, so that those who are practitioners do not spend so much of their time filling out forms and dealing with complicated legislation. I'm obviously willing to do that. But if that means stripping the system that today makes you have a varied agricultural industry, if you want to have a freedom that the Progress Party will have for the agricultural industry, then I think it's easy that there can be a freedom to be allowed to be poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e607	I notice that the center part is very sore for the time being. Now the Center Party has had both one and two hands on the steering wheel of Norwegian politics since 1965, and never before in history have we had greater deportation from the districts than in this period. Never before has there been more gardening than this period. We all agree that the capacity of the fishing fleet is too large. But there has never been greater capacity in the fishing fleet than under Minister of Fisheries Peter Angelsen of the Senterpartiet. And then one has to ask the question: might it now be a turn when we don't have the Center Party's hands on the wheel of Norwegian politics in the future? Maybe we can get a spin? Maybe someone will realize that it's actually in District Norway's value creation? But with the Center Party's policy: Just look within the aquaculture sector – where one has to have such strict concessions today that Norway, with the coast we have, has used an area corresponding to the area that the ferries between Sykkylven and Magerholm operate. The area lying there is the total land consumption of the Norwegian farming industry for the whole country. Then say, with the Center Party in the breeze, we're not going to give more concessions in the farming industry, the industry that can give Norway an advantage in the future. And then a rather state-owned tax dollars to Cermaq to buy up with taxpayers' money, and maybe ruin a Norwegian industry in the way they do. When will the Center Party wake up and realize that we're going to make this nourishment a growing industry, do we have to remove the obstacles, that is, the concession limits?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e618	No, I'm not hurt – I don't think the Center Party is hurt either, but it's clear it hurts that one sees that one today has a majority that now helps one get heavily reduced appropriations to SND. I also see that the Progress Party feels that this is a problem, so I expect them to be concerned about it too. I have noticed that there are many prominent sunmers, including Ecornes, who are concerned with the role of SND in industrial development. It is clear that there are a number of such things that are of great concern to us, and it complicates us what course changes you can expect in the years to come. I also agree that things take time. It took the Centre Party ten years to get the other batches to understand that one had to try to reduce food prices by introducing half of the food tax. And finally we got it. So things take time. But I'm not as depressed on behalf of the districts as the representative Solholm is. I agree with the representative Gedrem that there are more and more people who want to live in the districts. But then we also have to give them the opportunity to actually get the same services, get an equivalent offer, like that one will have in the big cities. It's a little bit of a problem today with the thinning you have of the municipal economy. The municipalities around the districts are sitting and knocking out their hands and don't understand how to get a municipal budget to jump. Then there is a poorer offer, then one also makes it more difficult for people to establish themselves in the districts, and to turn the issue of district policy into offensive district policy. I know that the Progress Party is concerned with a completely different agricultural policy from what the Centre Party is. And I just have to say to the representative Solholm, how would it look today if one had had a free establishment in Norwegian aquaculture? What would it have looked like about the market situation and the prices it has on the European market today? Then we had been serious about driving. We're going to be happy to see that we actually have limitations on concession and establishment. Otherwise, I believe that what Solholm says about Cermaq is wrong. The centre party did not participate in this transformation – on the other hand, the Christian People's Party was involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e631	The centre party has many of its trust-elects as well as farmers' voters. And in my article earlier today, I was into this with animal welfare. I think it's an area where we have a lot of messed up, and where we've got something too short in relation to putting the focus on animal welfare. It applies to regular poultry, in the case of fur production, and to both pet animals and other animals. My question to Marit Arnstad is therefore: How does Marit Arnstad see animal welfare? Is she agreeing that here it is a long way to go to get an acceptable standard so that our animals have it as well as possible. That's the one question. The second question is: does Marit Arnstad think that we should reconsider the fur side, and that we need to look at a winding up or get other cages in which these animals can stay?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e640	The representative Ryan was involved in animal welfare in his post, and I thought that was interesting. Then he said that it is good to see that cows are grazing. I also think that is good, and it is good to see that the cows have good animal welfare conditions. But the question that the Senterpartiet often asks itself is, will there soon again be some cows that can at all go out and graze, with the sale of milk quotas that you are now looking around in the districts? Will we at Skatval or inwards in Namdalen further see that there are some cows going out and grazing at all? I think that's a more fundamental question than whether they're inside or out of the feather, honestly. But I agreed very much with what Ryan said in his speech about the description of agriculture and the problem of the practitioners and those who have their incomes from agriculture: a feeling that an economic gets little out of it, one has concerns about future investments, and it's a lonely profession. I'm familiar with that. And that passage to flirting that was in the hall under Ryan's posts about this, I thought I was completely unfounded. He described the situation in the rural areas of Norway, well and very striking. When it comes to animal welfare, I look forward to the treatment of the Animal Protection Notice in Stortinget; I think there are a lot of things that can be done in that area. I'm probably not of them – and I don't think a person will see that the Senterpartiet will be – who will be in favour of liquid fur nutrition, which is also of great importance to some districts as the representative Ryan and I know. But the conditions of the practice of that industry too are reason to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e649	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e652	The Government has submitted a draft budget focusing on measures to ensure the safety of good quality food for consumers and measures for more consumer-oriented food and agricultural production. I note that there is a broad consensus on food and agricultural policy, as expressed in the Committee's position. I am also pleased that the Committee supports the Government's efforts to ensure the scope of action for a continued active agricultural policy by influencing the processes and negotiations in the WTO, agreements with the EU and other international work. The attention of Norwegian consumers to safe food is increasing. They demand high-quality, safe products and increased diversity in the supply of food. The government takes the task of maintaining confidence in Norwegian food seriously through a consumer-oriented food and agricultural policy that focuses on consumer preferences. Consumer considerations shall be included throughout the food chain. Contaminants and extraneous agents may be administered throughout the food chain from soil to table. For the quality of the food as a final product, the proper use of primary inputs will be as important as proper handling later in the food chain. Healthy food is essential. Through the draft budget, the Government maintains a strong commitment in the field of food. The recent situation in Europe shows that it is important to have good systems of control and supervision of agricultural production at all stages. I am pleased with the support given to the Committee to modernise and streamline the work of the Food Safety Authority, with a clear division of roles and responsibilities between the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The aim is to merge today’s three supervisory offices under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Safety at municipal level into a new State ‘Food monitoring’. The aim of the new ‘Food Authority’ is to ensure the safety of food of the right quality for consumers through sound production. The new supervision shall lead to simplifications for users and to the non-discrimination of food establishments throughout the country. It has been decided to continue its own monitoring of seafood, but we agree to close cooperation between the two inspections, so that no uncertainty is created either by users or consumers as to who is responsible. It shall be provided that legislation and supervisory principles are consistent in both areas. Concrete proposals for the future management model will be submitted to the Stortinget in the autumn of 2002. We put great emphasis on having knowledge of what's happening at the different stages of the chain. In this context, the monitoring and control programme for plants, animals and food is particularly important. The government's draft budget shows that we are spending considerable resources on such programmes. This means a significant increase in the level of testing against bovine and scrapie. In order to reduce consumer exposure to infectious and extraneous agents, the Government will launch programmes to improve monitoring in this area. This applies to both animal feed and Norwegian-produced and imported food. Fishing health is also a priority area. This is particularly important in view of the strong growth experienced by the farming industry today. I emphasise that consumers can have quick access to reliable information. In this context, a web-based information platform focusing on food safety and guidance for traders and consumers shall be developed. It is also important in the Consumers' Guide for transparency to increase consumer knowledge of food production and the different stages of the production chain. Agricultural policy is an important regional policy instrument. Through active use of the instruments of agricultural policy, we can help to increase the viability of farms. Good use of market opportunities, increased diversity, a balanced market, structural changes and reasonable cost adjustments are important in maintaining active agriculture where food security and food supply are at the core. We must have the capacity to renew the agricultural industry while ensuring good income opportunities for the industry's operators. The Government has proposed to reduce appropriations for the implementation of the agricultural agreement. Prior to the agricultural negotiations in 2002, an investigation will be carried out with a view to improving the tax regime for agriculture. Reduction in the capped allocation. 1150 shall be implemented in such a way that the benefits provided for in the Agriculture Agreement for 2001 to 2002 are met. The government assumes that in the spring of 2002 agricultural negotiations are normally conducted on the basis of the main agreement and the agricultural agreement and the budget item for agriculture. In order to increase the share of organic production, this area has been strengthened in the draft budget. The objective is to increase organic production to a level that allows operators in the market to market organic products in a cost-effective way. In this context, enhanced research, guidance and information work is also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e680	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e683	In the Bondevik II Government's draft budget, the Government is in favour of a large-scale sale and sale of the State's holdings in companies where the State has such holdings. In the evening post of July 27, 2000, the then stockbroker Lars Sponheim said that he feared the slaughter of Arcus AS, and that the State must therefore retain one third of the shares in order to ensure that Arcus AS remains an independent company. Sponheim then expressed the fear that if the whole company is sold, foreign interests will buy up Arcus AS and split up the company. My question to the Minister of Agriculture will then be: what has changed so much in the last year that the current Minister of Agriculture Sponheim can help propose to sell out the entire Arcus with the exact opposite reason, that there is no particular concern that the State should continue to be the owner?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e692	It was in itself a surprising line, but I am all-rounder enough to go into the Minister of Industry's field for a moment too, because of course there is an overall government behind the proposals that have been promoted. It was the previous government that I had the pleasure of sitting in, that took the first steps to start selling the shares in Arcus, and it was at that time a legitimate fear of what would happen to Arcus in such a situation. Now we see that it seems to be going really well. There are even significant Norwegian interests that see an opportunity to own Arcus' business and produce alcoholic beverages for marketing in our monopoly system. And no solution is better than that the state can have one task less, and that it can be done by Norwegian actors in a good way. When we then find out – and then the Minister of Agriculture also meets himself on the floor – that here the agricultural actors themselves can take a hard time to ensure not only that they take care of the Norwegian ownership of such a company, but also that there will be a good turnover and market for agricultural products, I think that this is probably more suitable as a good example for the representatives of the Workers' Party than to use it and hang it out as a bad example. So there are some of us who also have the pleasure of being customers of Arcus' products, and not least when it comes to Christmastimes, there are some who can rejoice, among other things. about the words that the famous author, Albert Engström, says about the Kolingen when he tasted of some of Arcus' products: When potatoes are served in this way, even a toothless can eat them!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e701	There are many "funny" stories about the Kolingen, perhaps especially on the other side of the border. Then I get to what I'm going to ask. In the case of Arcus products, some of them may be sold in Sweden, but the fees are incredibly much lower and are getting lower and lower. Now here we have a government council representing the agricultural sector, and I took the Sem statement to the pulpit to see what it says about how to reduce the price differences between Sweden and Norway in the case of agricultural products. The councils mentioned, as far as I could hear, not in one word how to fulfill it. But he says a lot about quality – and we all agree on that, like the fight against BSE and some other animal diseases – that we should actually take advantage of as a competitive advantage. Or in another way: if only one percent of Europe's population were willing to pay the primary Norwegian agricultural products cost, we could sell everything we could produce in this country. But back to the Sem statement. The few elements here, which might seem to move towards more rational and efficient agricultural production at lower food prices, are mentioned in a few points. Concession limits in pig, egg and chicken production and the concession law in the case of land limits are to be assessed. But what else is the Council of State supposed to do to reduce the differences in food prices? Now I'm not talking to myself, because I also have, like the Council of State, the advice to buy more specialities, but I think of minimum pensioners, low-wage groups, families with children, all those who have heard this year after year from different government councils and politicians that food prices are going down. What will the Council of State do now to try to fulfill the promises of the politicians, and what is in line with this Sem Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e712	When we are aware that there is a significant border trade – both the representative Hedstrøm and I were within this very good form, the Kolingen, from Swedish literature – it must be legal for a Norwegian Minister of Agriculture to state that several Norwegians should perhaps also ask for other things in Sweden, not only the cheap food sold along the border with Norway, although it must also be allowed to do so in a free country with open borders. It is a very central point that all operators throughout the food production industry, as the Progress Party likes to say, from primary producers up to the retail stage, are committed to cost-effectively reducing the price of food. The basic driving force in all of us is how to make things a little smarter and simpler tomorrow than what you did yesterday. Deepest is what it's all about. I have no plans in any way not to have a pressure on this whole chain in terms of primary joints, intermediate and final joints, in order to be cost-effective and produce food at the right price. But at one point I will take a completely definite reservation: it will never be spoken to go on chords with food security! And I am absolutely sure that a former health worker like Hedstrom is also concerned about. That's a point where we never have to have four from the Norwegian side. We would rather pay what it costs to ensure that we have food that is safe for Norwegian consumers. Fortunately, both the representative Hedstrøm and I can afford to buy something that is a little more expensive than the cheapest food ever. And fortunately, there are many with us – a point has been made that the Minister of Agriculture is not so busy looking for food prices when he trades – I actually share that with almost half of the Norwegian people. Some people might say that there are Norwegian men who think like that, but fortunately, many people think more of it than just getting calories and vitamins when you buy food. You also want an experience, a story and other qualities related to the food we produce and sell.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e722	I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture about forests and mountain slopes. I start with forest. When we plant a tree, it's probably the chance that we'll harvest that tree, small. We have to realize that. With the climatic conditions we have in Norway, it's probably the generations that come after us, that get pleasure from that tree or pine tree that we plant. Looking at the state budget, there is a significant reduction in the contribution to and investment in forest planting/forestry cultivation. My question to the government council Sponheim is therefore: is it because it is so far in time that a significant reduction in this area is now being chosen? Or is it because you don't think it is necessary to think about future generations, that they should also be able to reap from nature, as we have been able to reap from it? My other question is about mountaineering – or cabins, which I use to call it. The budget allocates approx. NOK 625000 for the management of four cabins in Finnmark. Now SV is not the party that wants to dispose of state property. We want to keep state property, especially what is of strategic importance. However, it seems rather difficult that the Ministry of Agriculture should manage four cabins on the Finnmarks. Had it not been appropriate for this money to have been transferred to the sitters, so that they could have managed with the management of these mountain floors sails?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e733	Forest is an important industry. In the long run, the forest has built parts of this country and has been a crucial industry for a long time, and it should also be in the future. Unfortunately, we have had a development in forestry in the last few years – and if I may say so, because I wasn't going to get to the forestry part of my post because of the clock – where we see that the profitability has unfortunately gone down too fast. As I've been able to follow in the last 20 years, we have about the same nominal prices today that we had 20 years ago. That means a real drop of maybe up to 50 pst. This cannot continue, in which case it will be quiet in Norwegian forests. Therefore, it is central to have a work that is not least about how we can get the value of the final products through, among other things. the value added programme. I think there's a pretty broad perception in this room that it's important to maintain a high level of activity in forest culture. Over the years, good words have been spoken about it from all parties, while at the same time for fiscal reasons, because one has needed to keep budgets within reasonable limits, has been one of the areas that has been weakened — not especially this year, but has been the case year after year. I don't think anyone will claim that this is a guided policy, except that it has been a necessity in tight budgets to make heavy priorities. I hope and believe that we may have reached a lower limit for such a development. Because it's absolutely vital that we succeed in getting new forest to grow where we have hogd old, otherwise the next generations won't have these possibilities. A fully central instrument is, of course, the legislation, which ensures that parts of the value taken from the forest are returned to culture and planting. Therefore, the forest charging scheme is central. It is absolutely necessary, as the Stortinget today ‘consults’ say — which has also been the Government’s ambition — that we have to have time to go through how we can strengthen and improve such a scheme, so that we ensure that we have a strong and good instrument in the field of forest planting and forest culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e744	Let me just say to the last thing that the Council of State said, that I agree very much. It is of great concern that not only profitability, but the allocation of long-term forest culture measures has been reduced year by year, including this year, and that the value creation programme will be reduced to carry out this type of action. It's worrying, and I hope that the Council of State will address it in terms of next year's budget. But in this year's budget, the Ministry of Agriculture has reduced the agricultural negotiations by 300 million. kr. It seems to me that it is a rather easy operation to balance a difficult budget. It's at least a very unusual way of dealing with things. That reduction will mean a reduction in income of more than NOK 8 000 per year. annual work, if it goes straight to income. It worrys the people who have worked in the industry, and there are also many of the parties here at Stortinget. We know that agriculture as a whole is facing major challenges in terms of the ability to maintain what the Government has set itself as its goal, among other things. by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the context of the WTO presentation, namely a decentralised agriculture with a varied structure of use. It is clear that achieving this requires both keeping transfers at a level that contributes to a varied agricultural situation and encouraging increased recruitment. It requires that one is also willing to look at other grips. As a patch on the wound, it is mentioned in the Ministry of Agriculture's budget that one should look at other instruments, such as: tax relief. The central party agrees that one should view it as an instrument. We would like it to come as an additional possibility for the industry. However, we note that the Minister of Agriculture has notified it, and that the members of the government of the Stortinget today also say that we must take it seriously and that these parties believe it. When he says it so explicitly, I would challenge the Minister of Agriculture to say something more about what kind of tax relief we can expect, and to what extent we can expect tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e755	Let me first confirm that the representative Arnstad and I have a similar sense of reality in the matter of forest. Not least, the lack of profitability that has developed over the years provides a basis for considerable concern. There should be a common challenge to which we need to find a solution. From the government's side, it's cut 300 million. kr in a non-negotiable agricultural agreement, applicable for the last six months of the following year. It is not possible on the basis of budgeting today to say whether it will be a good or a bad agricultural agreement – if I may say so – because it will be negotiated first. Of course, the government has reserves that are needed to negotiate, in retrospect, as previous governments have always budgeted. But the new thing, and it is said in the proposition, is that the Government has started work to promote changed and new tax rules for agriculture. What we have seen is that a high level of transmission over many years, combined with what it has been possible to find through the agreements and get out of the market, has not provided satisfactory income development for agriculture. And there have been no cost adjustments that have made it possible. This requires a third tool, a third handle, to address agricultural policy in order to improve income opportunities. I am absolutely convinced that tax is such an instrument. One has to look at the use of tax credits differently — and I am talking about earmarked tax credits — in an industry that has significant budget support, than one in and out looks at the use of tax credits in other economic areas. Because it is quite obvious that using funds from the State budget to provide specific tax relief leads to cost-effectiveness in the industry that someone else would not. There is a bit of a background for the government to start this work. Then we want a line to start the agricultural negotiations. It's a line I have the ambition not to be a worse starting point for working out good income opportunities for the farmers than what would have been without this grip.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e766	The Agreement on Agriculture is important and necessary in order to ensure active agriculture throughout the country, to ensure food quality and to maintain the cultural landscape and to provide farmers with satisfactory working conditions and working conditions. The Government’s Support Party, the Advance Party, has repeatedly called for the conclusion of the agricultural agreement as a system. The Right Party has also had strong arguments against the agricultural policy that has been pursued so far. Can the Minister of Agriculture guarantee that this government will ensure the agricultural agreement as a good arrangement, a system for ensuring agriculture throughout the country in the future as well? Or will this government take action that will weaken the scheme and the content of the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e773	The government says in its basic document, in the Sem declaration, that we want to maintain the agricultural agreement. So the guarantee that is requested here, I can give. The agricultural contract system will be continued based on the main agreement. But we also say that we are concerned about how this works, and whether it is possible to make simplifications and otherwise improve the agricultural contract institute itself. I think we'll all be good at that. Not least, it's important in a field like this that we come up with such simple systems that most people are able to possess knowledge about how this works. It has something to do with the legitimacy of the population in order to have a system like this and to spend as much money on our total Community funds in an area as important as agriculture. Let me also add, because I think it is important to have it said in the final phase of this sequence of agricultural policy: the representative Arnstad uses a lot of the words 'variable agriculture'. I think that’s the whole core of maintaining a future agriculture — and I would actually say ‘a more varied agriculture’. Too little of what can be said about Norwegian agricultural policy and developments from the mid-1970s onwards is that there has been a relative focus on volume, on modeling and one market for all agricultural products throughout the country, etc. But in the future, there will probably be a more varied supply side, where there is more diversity of opportunities, more diversity of ways to cooperate, more diversity of ways to produce and more diversity of products, and perhaps also the ability of farmers to be self-employed and to live off accounts — to do more than the father and grandfather did on the same farms.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e782	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e785	I was surprised when I joined the Business Committee in the fall, that was the business policy of the right-hand side. They have almost characterized the Workers' Party as a business enemy, and have believed that they were in charge of the policy that business would have. But to put it mildly, there is no standing applause for the cuts that are proposed. There are more standing protests — both from the right and from the business community. Romsdal's Budstikke has characterised the budget of the Bondevik II government as the most district enemy that has been presented for a long time. And it says a little bit when the furniture giant and the right-wing politician Ekorenes go out public against what's suggested. The result was half a billion more in low-risk loans, but a total of half a billion less than the Stoltenberg government proposed. If the cuts are not the same everywhere, there are also significant cuts elsewhere. Ten million. In my view, the wrong policy at the wrong time is also less for export promotion, because we see decline trends and international challenges. It was also cut, as has been said before, 300 million. kr on cap. 1150 For the implementation of the agricultural agreement. On an annual basis, it's 600 million. kr. This is the first time in history, says the League of Bonds, that there will be cut off from a government in the framework of next year's agricultural negotiations. In other words, one of the negotiations on agriculture in 2002 will start with a reduction in income of DKK 8 500 for farmers. One must not predict here the outcome of the negotiations, but one cannot ignore the fact that the BU funds can be lost. In the choice between BU funds and direct cuts in the incomes of the farmers, I think we should at least not exclude that possibility. When called in the Sem Declaration ‘New Give for Agriculture’, there is a desire to ask, ‘Where will the new give come from?’ The challenges are great and pressing for Norwegian agriculture, both through customs tariffs and the WTO, and not least because we have a high level of costs in Norway. We do not need the policies of the Right and the Advance Party in addition. In that case, I suppose I can be a little calm based on what Minister of Agriculture Sponheim says, and the likeness of the Christian People's Party's main posts here tonight. There are also a number of cuts in other areas of the budget, including: part of the forest. In principle, we should have wanted the original budget of the Stoltenberg government to be adopted. However, there is an overall committee that has considered the value creation programme to be important, and we are also fully behind it when it comes to proposing that the Government should submit a proposal for a modification of the forest tax scheme, which would remove the ceiling and extend the tax advantage. We believe that the majority comments under this chapter are good and give signals of a good time for forestry. In the case of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. The Committee shall meet, with the exception of the Progress Party. That chapter relates to conversion measures in South Varanger, where the Progress Party will cut the total appropriation of 40 million. kr – not so eye-catching in itself, but it illustrates the policy of the cooperative party of the Bondevik II government here in Stortinget. The fact that, in addition to the treatment of the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs, the Progress Party also has a fundamental position to liquidate both the North Norway grant and the regional grant does not make the challenges any less for the current government. The progress party says in the Budget-inner. S. No 5 that ‘the district policy of the day is reminiscent of a crying wife’s performance’. Right-wing policy is enough of a day. It is no better for the Progress Party to have its own statements, probably much greater for the 2003 budget year than for the next year. I sincerely wonder when the Christian People's Party will have some impact on its policy. Or have I and many others been so wrong about what this party really stands for? Are they as right-wing as the decisions of the Storting show?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e806	The budget submitted by the Cooperation Government represents important steps to improve the basis for value creation in Norway. The debate that we have had to date can be heard as a business-political doomsday prophecy, which I believe is like most other doomsday prophecies – it is rarely that it becomes so. The budget contains tax havens that will increase access to risk capital, improve the conditions of knowledge-based business and strengthen private ownership. We have prioritised the increased use of oil revenues that it is now open to, primarily to improve the basis for future growth and value creation in our society. For me, it is a fundamental recognition that the values created in business are the basis of well-being and employment. Good working conditions for enterprises are therefore absolutely necessary to ensure the well-being and housing of the future. Increased investment in infrastructure is important to reduce distance congestion and facilitate business development, especially in districts. The debate we have had today is largely about SND, and one would think that the world is collapsing and Norwegian business is losing all competitiveness at the moment that we do not have exactly the appropriations prescribed by the Stoltenberg government. Fortunately, reality is very far away. The budget of the co-operation administration involves a change in industrial policy with a greater focus on the general framework conditions and tax reliefs, so that business becomes competitive. This is in stark contrast to the policies of the Labour Party Government, which in record time carried out strong tax increases for industry. There is no doubt that the part of the business that has the greatest benefit from having competitive conditions is the export industry. Where is the export industry located in this country? Is it located within Ring 3 in Oslo, or is it located around the coast? It is district policy of the best trademark to ensure that that part of the business community is given conditions that make it competitive internationally. There has been a lot of talk about the instrumentation. I mean, time is definitely in place to put all the tools we have on the table and ask the basic question: are we optimally organized to achieve the goals we have, with the means at our disposal? Then it seems to me that the 12–15 instruments we have, which are organised in different ways, with their own governments and administrations, are not an optimal way of doing these things. That is why I want to have a complete review of the instrument. In the case of state ownership, the Government aims to reduce the direct state ownership of Norwegian business. Public-owned companies usually have lower returns on invested capital over time and generate fewer values than corresponding private companies. The best indication is to look at the annual return on the share value of the companies we've had at any time. Then a few will see numbers that might make someone reconsider their views. At the same time, there are many principal problems associated with the mix of roles of direct State ownership. That being said, it is important to manage country ownership as professionally as possible. One part of this is to bring together the administration of state ownership in one department. The state is going to be a marked and big owner of Norwegian business in – I was saying – almost incomprehensible future, because of the sizes we are talking about here. As long as we who sit in this room are politicians, it's pretty obvious that the state is going to be a big owner. What the state has not had since the war – or ever – is a policy for the exercise of this ownership. Yes, in fact, several of the major shareholdings previously held and managed by industry ministers and business ministers are enterprises they have never been in. When it's 54 years since we established Olivin, and that at the moment. is that the owner has never been on a visit to the company, it may indicate that the Joint Confederation is right, when I met them last night, that this country has never had a policy of exercising state ownership. That's what we want to deal with. Then we can discuss one or the other solution – at least we'll try to make a policy for this. Time is running fast. As regards reimbursement schemes for maritime industries, I am pleased with the change that is now being made. I think it's important to take care of the maritime cluster. I have invited the parties in the maritime industry to the meeting on 2 January at 2. 10, in order to initiate a process, so that we do not get into the situation in the future that we have been in throughout the 1990s, namely a yes policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e827	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e830	At least we can conclude that we have a common desire to have a more stable framework for this important industry. I have to admit that I have a little problem feeling again in Norway when it is made with the Right-eye. I think it might be right to remind you that Norway is one of the countries in Europe where there is the lowest unemployment rate, where industry is the best, and where it has been the largest surplus in private business in recent years. I thought you should have it with you when you describe the society we live in. At the same time, it must be that the criticism that Right now addresses the Workers' Party must also apply to some other party, including the Christian People's Party. For the Christian People's Party has been involved in all the budgets that have been provided in recent years. And when the new government talks so much about interest, it might be nice to remember that it was actually under the previous Bondevik government, after budgetary decisions together with Right, that we got the strong growth in interest rates. In a reply to the financial debate, I congratulated the Minister of Industry on the full implementation of his policy within the Government. And I would like to repeat this congratulations today, and reinforce it. For earlier today, the Christian People's Party simply voted against a proposal that the plurality from our close to regional and regional policy should guide the government's policy. So the Christian People's Party voted to lift its own decision from last year. And when you read in the settings from the committee, you see that the Christian People's Party has not only agreed to all cuts, but they have actually adopted the Right's way of reasoning. So there's every possible reason to congratulate the Right on its breakthrough here. So it is that both the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister and now the Minister of Industry say that this is just the beginning. In other words, it's going to continue in the same direction. It must mean that cut gets bigger. One now tries to minimize the cuts that are made this year. Is it because one expects one to carry out even bigger cuts next year, and is that what the Minister of Industry wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e844	I have learned that politics should be on guard when political opponents use the pulpit to congratulate you on something. That also applies now. Getting nice clapping on the back of the back of the car, and otherwise, from political opponents is always nice, but when you get them from the armchair, you have to be on guard. When it comes to congratulating the whole picture of this policy area, I have understood that the strategy of the Workers' Party – very well implemented, they will have all the credit for their homogeneity – is that they intend to plague the Christian People's Party as much as possible in relation to the situations that may arise where they cannot fully join the proposals and choose to vote against them. Then at least I would say that in this budget we are now dealing with, and in the setting that exists, in fact, the Workers' Party stated by Akselsen is voting against some of the things that he was with and promoted from the government offices in St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002. It is a well-known technique here in Stortinget that proposals are being made, not because it seems very important to put forward the proposals, but solely in order to try to hit political opponents. Of course, it's also legal, but it's very little fertile. I might have thought that there had been a little greater vision of industrial policy than what I have registered with the Workers' Party today. The fact that in this area we are continuing the reduction that has been made on SND, which the Workers' Party has stood for in the 1990s, I can't say is a very big thing, as I experience it. That being said, it is not the intention of this government that, in reviewing the instrument, we have the ambition to have a lower commitment to contribute to innovation and innovation in Norwegian business. It's never been pronounced from my side. I am aware that at some point it has been referred to an article that was in the evening post, but I do not see it this way. And it's completely impossible to imagine that we're going to finance the remaining 18 to 20 billion in tax bills with $2 billion in cut. If we cut the whole SND, we wouldn't be able to finance this. I believe that we will maintain the level of business activity we have in this country, and that is for SND, and to the extent for the other tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e853	The Minister of Economic Affairs was in his main post inside the SND, and he was also very concerned about it in his reply. There has been a major issue in the debate this evening. Some batches have also moved on the same line as some SND opinions give the impression that there is now a change in business policy. One of the last of the last Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, Grete Knudsen, was to appoint Bengt Martin Olsen as Chairman of the State Food and Rural Development Fund. At the same time, both Grete Knudsen and Bengt Martin Olsen are co-owners of a private consultancy company called GBM. Although both Knudsen and Olsen have expressed themselves to be able to comply with the rules on viability, and have made it clear that it is not appropriate to seek support from SND, a mix of roles can be suspected by the fact that this company can have a door opener role in public crates, and then have a competitive advantage over other similar companies. The SND Joint Chief Executive Officer and private advice may be considered beneficial. And when you look at the statements Bengt Martin Olsen made to the VG yesterday, I'm going to say that it's directly alarming. I'll quote it for this assembly if not everyone has got it with them: ‘Han’ – understood implicitly Ansgar Gabrielsen – ‘wants a leader of the SND with a different political background’. Very alert by a director to make such an opinion. As far as the question of stability is concerned, my question to the Minister of Industry is: Is this situation something he can live with?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e872	A few weeks ago, I met with the Executive Director and the Chairperson of the SND to review what is becoming the budgetary situation of the SND, and discussed its implementation. Last Monday, on the plane home from Brussels, I read in Dagbladet where Grete Knudsen explained to his new job and company, who was her partner, and what was the intention of this company. Then I jumped into the aircraft seat, and on Tuesday morning I did research into what this business idea was, and what was supposed to be about this company. I concluded very quickly that I do not want to have members of the board of directors and not at all directors of the instrument that has a business idea like this. When I had conversations with Bengt Martin Olsen about ordinary things a week earlier, I was not aware of the job he had. I asked the civil service to take a look at all the boards of the instrument to see if there were others in a similar situation or one that could be similar to this. I came to the conclusion that it was. That is, not directly, but it will be because the head of the Export Council, Kaci Kullmann Five, is going to start an almost equal business after New Year's. I then contacted the head of the Export Council and presented my view, which is that it is unthinkable for me to have such consultants for board members in some of the tools. Kaci Kullmann Five then concluded that she was not in a position to re-elect the Export Council. Today, in a telephone conversation with Bengt Martin Olsen, I have explained my position on this, and Bengt Martin Olsen concluded that he would withdraw from the board of directors in SND. We had a good conversation. Both Kaci Kullmann Five and Bengt Martin Olsen are people that I have full confidence in in every respect. It has nothing to do with it, and it has nothing to do with which particular matter it had to be. But I do not want to have such consultants in the tool department of the Ministry of Food and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e879	The Swedish Government and the Swedish Government strongly disagree on state ownership policies. But if, for a moment, we could ignore the fundamental differences and look at what the world is like, I believe that both the Minister of Industry and we can agree that a functioning and strong rule of law is a prerequisite for free movement of capital not to result in robberies capitalism. On 26 November, Eva Joly, French corruption hunter, gave talks at the Polytechnic Association. It was a talk that a business minister should notice. She said, ‘Everyone is happy that Yukos invests in Kværner, but no one asks where the money comes from’, and she continued: ‘Why do we find that huge sums go uncontrollably through straw companies and tax havens’. And she said, «Because economic crime only affects beautiful people who are not afraid and who do not steal for old ladies». She thought that the North is suffering from realism and that we want to believe well in everyone. I want to ask the Minister of Industry who was concerned about orderly business relations: I have not registered any activity from the Minister of Industry to defend Norwegian businesses and Norwegian values against such robberies capitalism and speculation. Will the Minister of Industry, for reasons of principle, sit quietly and see that anyone with any kind of money will be able to buy up large Norwegian corner stone companies almost for the wreckage in fear that the state will be able to hold any more ownership than what you are doing today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e900	I think – at least for a while – that Karin Andersen shares the concern of some of what is going on in Norwegian and in international business. Yukos or others like Karin Andersen had to suspect that they had funds that were not legally generated, have worried some. On the other hand, there was a not insignificant pressure from Members of this Chamber, including members of the Trade Committee, who thought that the Minister of Industry should go out and really support this offer from Yukos. It was the matter of the Center Party. So here's the pressure from several directions. Robbery capitalism or not robber capitalism – what is the situation, is that what we work for, and on which there is a broad political consensus, is that we have to impose the capitalism we practice, remove the outcasts and make rules that allow us to avoid the worst results. But the point is that there is no alternative to this system. For me, it is relatively unthinkable that I should examine the hearts and kidneys of Norwegian and foreign shareholders who will make purchases in Norwegian companies, saying that they do not have such a moral standard or that they have obtained the money in a way that is not compatible with the moral standard I needed, and that for this reason I choose to use state funds to go in and buy. I can hardly imagine that there is something in the vicinity of a political majority in this House that believes that there should be motivation, for example. for entering Kværner. That we should have spent 1, 2 or 3 billion kroner buying Kværner because we were anxious that the funds from the other shareholders would not hold a moral standard that would pass with us, I consider quite unimaginable and a way to act in the market that I do not see as practical at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e907	Let me first say that it is absolutely right that there are some in the Central Party who have been concerned that the Council of State should at least have shown a little interest in how the Norwegian business related to Kværner could be ensured, and whether the State should have a role in that respect, the risk of bankruptcy taken into account. Now, luckily, you let it go this time, it's not sure you're as lucky another time. The Council of State said in its statement: Who would expect us to finance the next 18–20 billion in tax bills for a 2–3 billion DKK in business? No, that's what we're asking. How to finance the next DKK 18 to 20 billion in tax relief when already in this budget it is so obviously necessary to cut in areas where important business is affected and where there is obvious pain within the government. I'm not interested in standing on this pulpit and hitting individual parties, and I don't want to be suspected of doing that either. But I am concerned about the issues and the consequences of a possible change of business. The Minister of Economic Affairs said in his speech during the financial debate that he has not received a single negative response. Then I have to say that I feel that if that is the case, the Council of State is either deaf and blind, or he has lived in a completely different world than the Food Committee of the Stortinge has done that has encountered reactions from all over the country. Different industrial activities — NHO, even the Business Federation, have reacted strongly to the cuttings we see, among others. in the case of SND. Then it will not be compensated for by tax relief for those who are newly established and for small businesses. Nor is it the case that the Government's view that this is good access to private capital is shared neither by industry itself nor by the Committee's overall comments in the decision. On the contrary, the Committee and business operators point out that the economic cycle is downwards and that the availability of private capital is tightened. So the question becomes whether the Council of State is completely indifferent to the reactions that have occurred and whether the change in course he has announced in the Evening Post, where specific nutritional measures are to be reduced, should continue. So what's next to be cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e918	First, the way to act in the Kværner case. In fact, I don't think you should ignore the fact that when the government held a very tight course in relation to how we had intended to act or not act in the Kværner case, it was a contributing reason why the board, shareholders and financial creditors took over the fact that we had to solve this. Fortunately, it was a broad political majority for this to be done. This does not mean that the Ministry of Economic Affairs was not involved in conversations – I had almost said – both night and day attached to that matter. But what was made clear from the very first moment was: it's not time to go in and take over where the shareholders are not willing to go in with more capital. It will also be my general starting point on other issues that may arise. So it's not right, as Arnstad tries to represent it as, that in the financial debate I said that I had not received any negative reactions. I said that I have not received any reactions that are such that you want to replace the budget that is currently under consideration, with what was the alternative. I didn't get that. I am fully aware that the right-wing people engaged in business are no different from the centre-party people engaged in business. They are, insofar as they are in a position to get public funds for some project, equally concerned with getting these things. There is no doubt about that either. As regards any future tax reductions that might come and how to finance them, it is clear that, as Arnstad well knows, there are many alternatives to cutting the budget. It was also in the government of Stoltenberg's arrangement financed in ways other than by cut. But we know that once a budget has been prepared and the framework has been created, there's only one way to do it, and that's almost cut. And that's what's done. Next year's budget will probably include new tax cuts, funded by other means.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e927	I was a little uncertain as to whether the council responded to my first line. If I understood him correctly, there would not be any further cuts in SND and the other nutrition measures within the Ministry of Industry budget. I hope he can confirm it, so that one knows that for the next year at least this is one of the areas that are screened for further cuts. The Minister of Economic Affairs said something else -- I don't think exactly how he expressed himself, but there was something about these cuts that were now done in the SND, not so dangerous, they didn't have much to say. I can have a certain understanding that he thinks so, because he has been fighting for these cuts for many years through his work in the nutrition committee, and is, of course, happy that he's finally come through. But it is so that there are many who disagree with the Minister of Industry in this area. If you look at all the requests that have been made to the Business Committee – and I believe that some of those copies are going to be in the Ministry of Industry – you can see that a lot of people think these cuts are serious. People respond. Many people feel that their plans to start their own business are horrifying. The question is: are these people wrong? Are they making mistakes when they claim these cuts are serious? When the Right Spokesman goes out and says that the new government budget is a blow to their municipalities, and when they claim that the new government is producing a district hostile industrial policy, for example. The Spokesperson of the Kvænangen, who is a member of the Right, does - do they make mistakes? Is it only the Minister of Industry who is right when he claims that these cuts are not so dangerous and not so important?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e934	No, the representative Akselsen should not be afraid that I should say that it is only the Minister of Industry who is right. It could never fall into me. But now this is not an exact science, which is the most effective thing to take care of the business we have, and to stimulate new things. I am reasonably convinced that if the appropriations for the SND were what was needed to realise the vision of a strong business life when the oil revenues began to fall, the Workers' Party would not have reduced the transfers to the SND every year since 1993. I'm sure of that. The accent had never, as the Council of State, accepted to sit in a government that reduces these, if it were such that this was essential for Norwegian employment and for a future business life. I think there will be an interaction between several instruments that will make us have a competitive business. But if there's one thing I feel very convinced about, it must be that the weight you put on the SND, also in this debate, is not proportionate to the importance of it to have a strong business life in the future. I feel very sure of that. I think we should shift the focus a little bit in terms of the tool, as I said earlier, towards the start-up phase. And then we can probably do it within the limits that we've now set. It's actually like we're spending several hundred million dollars on managing these things. We have a rather heavy and very powerful tool, and I think we can definitely achieve what we're looking for, with a slimmer organization and within the framework we've set. And then that's the question: are the Right-Rapporteurs wrong – who have sent letters that they don't appreciate it being cut off in transfers to municipal nutrition funds? Now I have also been the rapporteur for a few periods, and I have been the head of the board of industry funds. I always asked myself a question when we gave this money: is it despite these appropriations or is it because of those we get jobs? I have not received any sure answers today either.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e945	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e949	Researchers claim that the maritime sector can provide us with a future income in this country of about NOK 250 billion a year in total, including conventional fisheries, aquaculture and sea grazing and the industry to surf these industries. How, then, are we going to be able to take this potential out? Are we creating a policy that makes it possible? In a line change earlier today, Marit Arnstad from the Center Party claimed that it is right and proper to do what we are doing now, that is, to set a limit to this in terms of concessions. My point and that of the Progress Party is that the strong concession arrangement we have today is an obstacle to us being able to cope with future developments in this industry so that it can be that potential, that it can take over the oil revenues that we have today. We know – and some of the representatives know about More and Romesdal – that on a ferry section in Storfjorden between Magerholm and Aursnes take ferja approx. 10 to 15 minutes, and there are two ferries. If we take the rectangle that these two ferries make over the fjord, it's an area equal to the total area that the farming industry in Norway uses today. And then the plural in this hall says that we have a lack of land in Norway for the farming industry, and that's why we have to introduce concessions. 40 pcs. Let's have it. And then Schjøtt-Pedersen managed to get most of them up to Finnmark and North Norway. We got two in More and Romesdal, which is one of the largest fishing districts and farming districts. It is the largest fishing state, and it is one of the largest in the export industry. We can do this, we can do this. And if we keep going like this, probably cheering on the SV and the Center Party, yeah, we're shoving away the possibility that we have of this becoming a growth food and giving us the income that's going to happen to enable us to continue the welfare society that we have. I hope that the Council of State and the new government will see the possibilities that lie in this industry, that these may be district jobs in the future. At least I'm optimistic, I have faith in the district. I've chosen to live in a district myself, and I'm never going to move to the central strata, because I think the central strata are so uncentralized. But then we have to give ourselves the ability to operate this. Then there must also be opportunities to be able to adjust the fishing fleet so that the current overcapacity is included. But then we can't do what the central party councils have been doing all year long, making a meter limit, which has led us to the largest capacity building in the fishing fleet of boats under 28 meters. Now we've just reduced it a little bit, because the unit ratio has given that effect. But we have had huge capacity building of boats under 28 meters. That is why, in my opinion, there is also a regulation limit here that is totally anti-commercial, and one does not achieve that, simply to get a capacity in the fishing fleet that allows one to house this marine resource productively. Then I will only finally mention this with resilient coughing. If we are to be able to preserve the fish resource, the Government and the Storting now have to take a roof to get a resilient shelter of the marine resources. Then we're about to start a bigger capacity increase within the range of wave selection and sales. I hope the Council of State can mention it in its article.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e966	It might be tempting to use the speaking time to answer the previous speaker, but I should rather speak for myself and SV. The prediction that the marine industries have a bright future as national growth industries has been repeated for the most part from this pulpit and from other similar speakers. Whether or not to make such a prediction is up to this assembly to decide. It requires that we touch right in the resource management. It requires that we have the knowledge to know what a sensible administration is. For SV, the starting point of business policy is that our resources have to be managed according to the perspective of sustainability if we want future generations to enjoy them. I'd like to admit that I was saddened when I found a magazine from the Federation of Nature Protection, where they pointed out, "We haven't inherited the land from our ancestors, we've borrowed it from our descendants." If we don't base that perspective on resource management and industrial policy, then we're on the wild path. Now I know that I want to spend a few minutes on the administration of the Norwegian-Arctic cod, but I'm going to save the president and my speaking time until the matter comes up at a more appropriate time than in the budget debate. But misunderstand me correctly: the budget debate is also about resource management, because if you want the marine industries to be future growth industries, you have to manage resources properly. Fisheries and aquaculture are facing a number of challenges. Conflicts related to land use, the environment and recruitment are some of these. It is necessary to ask some critical questions about the national growth industry No. 1, the aquaculture industry. I'm not going to deal with everybody right now, because I'm going to be able to do a more thorough discussion about this later. However, to take a problem that illustrates the point: with the growth predicted by the aquaculture industry, the forecasts suggest that in not many years there will be enough feeding problems. In this way SV lacks more offensive focus on research and development in this industry. And we do not have research and development work that is more environmentally related. The reason why I am at all interested in industrial policy is that the construction of the districts depends on the development of industry. The fishing industry is still the basis for coastal settlement. In this context, there are several aspects that there is too little public debate around. One relationship is recruitment. Recruitment is not an inconclusive public responsibility, but we are forced to be involved and take responsibility for people's good commitment to the fishing industry. So in the SV's alternative budget, we've seen money for recruitment measures of different kinds. This was not a space for within the frame that was adopted by the Government Party and the Progress Party. In addition, it is an important challenge for the fisheries industry that very little further processing takes place domestically. This is not a problem of moving one million or two. Here, the public and the private, the municipality and the state must pull the load together. We added money into our alternate budget to a preproject that could start the job with this. There's no room for that either. But I would believe, and I hope, that this is something that concerns more than us, and that there is one thing that we can come back to. SV places considerable emphasis on knowledge as an input into all value creation. I think it is a premise that a bet on research and development if we want the Norwegian fisheries and aquaculture industry to be world-leading in the future. That is why we have given priority to research and development in our alternative budget. And I'm sorry that the government is going in the wrong direction by cutting back on nutrition R & D in the marine sector budget. It's not that long since I was saved on fish, but if there's something that the industry needs, there are actually people who are a little bit saved and who look at things with a little bit of new eyes. I register, and can only take note, that the State and the Norwegian Fisheries Team have become involved in a fisheries agreement at a price tag of 90 million. kr. Now I'm afraid that the resource outbound we're operating in the Barents Sea is going to give us a situation if not so many years where the government is forced to try to separate more than 90 million. kr if the coast is not to be depopulated. I'd rather have seen that one was leading was, putting the quotas lower and increasing the state involvement of the social arrangements for the fishermen instead of going backwards into the future with the Russians as an excuse. The fishermen have bad social systems as a working group. I see that the arrow for the frame of the fisheries agreement is going down rapidly. I know that there is not so much I can do in this context but express the desire that the social arrangements for fishermen be continued and further developed during the next budgetary period. And I'm going to take care that there's a little bit of attention to it. I am pleased that there are signs in time that indicate that the fisheries policy is on the increase on the agenda. I'm very happy about that. So even though I was a little bit ‘sick’ of the government budget, I have hope that we can find new alliances when it comes to what is actually the biggest challenge for the future, the resource management of the fisheries and aquaculture industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e994	Let me start by saying a little about the budget chapters for which I am the case rapporteur. I am pleased that there is a broad majority behind the proposal to increase the appropriations for Narvik phones and Bedin. The results from these are good, the users are happy, and over 90 pst. by users are enterprises with less than 10 employees. This is an offer to small businesses that are being used and valued. An overall committee now agrees that the purpose of the new investment company is to improve access to risk capital and equity for the innovative research-based industry. It is also agreed that the company should be a commercial operator with a high degree of autonomy and that it is important that the company becomes a long-term investor capable of strengthening the Norwegian environment of competence and its interaction. I am pleased that today there will be a vote in favour of the Government's proposal for the fisheries budget without any changes within the framework adopted by the Stortinget on 28 November. The basis for the development of the fishing industry depends on a number of factors. I'll initially draw out two of them. The fundamental and absolutely essential is the long-term and sustainable management of fish resources. Without a long-term administration that takes seriously that this is a renewable resource that cannot be over-taxed, we will not have the development of the fishing industry that we all want. The second important factor I want to highlight is the general framework conditions for business. The fishing industry is our second most important export industry and is among the most competitive. The budget as proposed by the Co-operation Board places great emphasis on resource control and efforts to trigger the value creation potential of fisheries and aquaculture. The government emphasises the development of cod as a commercial farmed fish and the development of aquaculture management and safe seafood. Compared with the current budget for last year, the budget we are adopting today means a strengthening of the management by 31 million. to the Directorate for Fisheries. This shall cover increased efforts for resource control and enhanced management of aquaculture. This also includes increased funding for the Nutrition Institute for Safe Seafood. It is crucial for the fisheries and aquaculture industry that Norwegian seafood is safe and felt safe. In this context, it is also worth bringing forward the efforts of the Government to stop emissions from Sellafield. It is also important for the Norwegian fishing industry. The budget represents a nominal increase in research effort compared to 2001 of almost 400 million. kr. Most of the increase is linked to the allocation of a new research vessel at the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea. The possibility of an effective R & D project is a prerequisite for a continued competitive Norwegian fishing industry. Norwegian rural policy is largely based on the exploitation of natural resources, and the proximity of resources has been crucial for a great deal of business. Growth in the aquaculture industry will therefore strengthen the industry in the districts. This development will depend not least on the success of the development of the breeding of new marine species. If this is facilitated, growth in the aquaculture industry will have a positive ringing effect on local business and strengthen the basis for rural settlements. In this context, good transport solutions in the districts will be very important. As part of the changes made to the budget, funds have been provided for a net pay scheme for ferries operating on international voyages. The costs of the scheme have been overestimated. I am pleased that a majority supports the proposal that the funds saved in relation to the Government's estimate should be used to increase the reimbursement rate for ships in the petroleum sector and for wellboats. The increased reimbursement rate for wellboats will contribute to a reduction in the cost to the aquaculture industry. The Swedish Government wants good framework conditions for Norwegian shipping. Therefore, it is important to have an open dialogue that shows the challenges we face and that finds forward-looking solutions and measures to ensure that our seafarers are competitive. I would like to sum up that the budget adopted today facilitates a fisheries and aquaculture policy that will contribute to increased value creation in a profitable and sustainable fisheries and aquaculture industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1025	‘The technological development and globalisation of the economy are constantly making new demands on the competitiveness, innovation and adaptability of businesses. Consumers also continue to impose new requirements on the qualities and characteristics of products. Norwegian industry has traditionally been over-focused on enterprises that have used natural resources for the production of goods with a low level of processing, where mass production and low prices are often the focus. Increased globalisation, however, means that enterprises are gradually gaining access to the same production methods and that products are becoming more and more alike in quality terms. Therefore, in order to survive in ever-increasing international competition, it is necessary for an enterprise to be able to offer different products and services. By increasing the level of processing and focusing on design and quality, it is possible to create products for which consumers will continue to be willing to pay in the future. Strategic investment in design can therefore be an important competitive advantage in a high-cost country such as Norway.’ I believe the Council of State Ansgar Gabrielsen recognizes these words, for he said this in his opening address to Design Day in Oslo on November 28th – that is just a few days ago. And I agree with what Ansgar Gabrielsen said. But then the agreement between him and me also ends. For the Council of State's response to this, delete the SND nutrient design programme from the budget. The feast he held on Design Day was therefore a strange speech. The fact that we should bet on design in Norway means to the Minister of Industry that everyone else in Norwegian business should bet on design, just not with any particular support from the state. Fortunately, he has not been destroyed by the efforts of the government of Stoltenberg at the Norwegian Design Council. I therefore hope that with the increase they will receive, they can continue with the good job they do, and also contribute where SND probably no longer has the opportunity. What will now happen to the cooperation agreement for the design development work between the Norwegian Design Council and the Staten Enterprise and District Development Fund, I am very uncertain about. Through this cooperation agreement, the two institutions had just made a division of labour, where the Norwegian Design Council would contribute to increased value creation in Norwegian business by promoting design through information, advice, dissemination and training, while the SND would contribute to increased value creation in Norwegian business through the introduction of capital and the implementation of measures. This fine cooperation would lead to: improving competitiveness and profitability, transforming and innovation-enhancing innovation and making better use of country resources; This is what the Minister of Industry now obviously does not want to happen. One of the bets that probably now have to be scrapped is the plans for design advisors in the 18 regions of SND – sin, for this framework! There are several programs in the SND that have been deleted by the Bondevik II government. I will just mention briefly the BIT programme, the programme for industry-oriented IT projects for efficient business operations, the VERDI, the national electronic commerce programme, and the ENT, establishing new technologies. I could say as much about these programs as I've said about the program of industrial design, but time doesn't go on. In the end, I want to quote from one of the many letters we've received in connection with the SND cuts, because the Council of State said in its statement that he hasn't heard so much negative, and that people are positive when you talk about tax havens. The head of the company First Tracking AS in Ulset, Bergen, says in a letter to some members of the committee: «As the founder and with a newly established company since February 2000, I have experienced hardship and hardship. When I now see the state budget for 2002 and its consequences for the SND and arrangements we are completely dependent on, I have to say once again: it should not be easy – but there will be limits!I want answers... on what alternative support schemes we can now expect to use. [[Do not want an answer to the question that the FUNN has been replaced by tax-free schemes – it does not concern companies at an early stage! Ein rather instigated – we are past the stage where we play with the idea of starting up business!]] For me, this is one of many proofs that what the government of Bondevik is doing is wrong. Taxes do not create exciting new jobs, they do not have so much income, and they are not able to pay taxes for the time being. So I'm sorry about what the Christian People's Party is now in.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1063	In the Sem Declaration, the Cooperation Government stresses the importance of developing a high-growth business that can reduce dependence on oil and gas activities. The exploitation and processing of natural resources is the basis for a large proportion of Norwegian business and is also the main basis for employment and housing in districts. The value creation and employment potential of the fisheries and aquaculture industries are high, and the Government’s policy shall contribute to the realisation of this potential. I am also pleased that the majority of the Business Committee supports all the proposals in the Ministry of Fisheries's budget proposals. The tax relief proposed by the Government in addition will provide a significantly better framework conditions for an internationally competitive industry such as the fisheries and aquaculture industry. A responsible economic policy with low price and cost growth is the most effective instrument to achieve increased competitiveness for an industry and to ensure a greater level of self-financing of innovation and development. An important objective of the Government’s economic policy is also to facilitate a downward trend in interest rates. This means additional cost cuts on farms and on fishing vessels. I fully agree with the representative Ivar Kristiansen, who, in his speech, emphasised that effective and good control of what is taken up by the sea is a vital prerequisite for achieving sustainable resource use. I can also confirm that sustainable resource use depends on ecosystem management that includes marine mammals whales and seals, as the representative Solholm stated. Therefore, the effort to bring to life the illegalities of the fishing industry must continue with unrestricted strength. This has also been followed up in the draft budget by a large part of the 31 million real increase. on the budget of the Directorate-General for Fisheries is allocated to resource control. These means shall be used to strengthen the staffing of the control body of the kaikant and of the sea and of projects capable of exploiting the technology for the most effective control. The exchange of information between the control bodies and other public bodies shall be strengthened and a system of electronic reporting by those engaged in fishing shall be developed. The electronic catch log shall be established as soon as possible through international cooperation and Norway will be at the forefront of this. Furthermore, sales teams shall focus more on processing landing information. One of the main challenges facing the fisheries industry in the future is to adapt the fishing fleet to the resource base. In this context, a number of measures have been taken. It shall include, inter alia: work on the introduction of access restrictions in several fisheries and special quota arrangements are developed for vessels below 28 metres. In addition, there is the creation of a Structural Fund for the fishing fleet, where Norway’s Fiskarlag has opened up the possibility for the industry itself to contribute to the financing of the fund. This includes, inter alia: part of the 90 million elements of the new fisheries agreement. D as the Government and the Norwegian Fisheries Team negotiated a short time ago. The Government aims to strengthen the importance of the aquaculture industry for districts and to facilitate continued growth. Central areas of aquaculture policy will be continued. For this reason, the 40 concessions for salmon and trout which the Stortingeet decided to grant will also be granted during 2002. And it's my goal that the allocation regulations are to be established in the new year, and that the concessions can then be published. In addition, new concessions for salmon and trout shall be granted when there is market room for it. It is also in line with the leaders Stortinget recently. Due to the commercial policy situation of Norwegian aquaculture, the feed quota will continue to play an important role in regulating the production of salmon. The Ministry of Fisheries has a new system of production demarcation based on concessions, feed quotas and the carrying capacity of the sites under investigation. The cultivation of new marine species is an example of widespread untapped opportunities in aquaculture. In the first place, it facilitates the commercialisation of cod as a farmed species. This has been followed up in relation to both earmarked appropriations for fisheries research, through the Ministry of Church, Education and Research budget and appropriations for the Norwegian Research Council. The base for the cod bet will be in Tromsø, and in addition the KUF has proposed to set up a professorship and two scholarship positions at the University of Tromsø, earmarked the cod and farming effort. The expected growth of the aquaculture industry in the coming years requires an adapted and efficient public administration that is service- and user-oriented. This will be followed up by the Government, among others. through a reduction in the duration of application for rearing applications. We are increasingly experiencing increased focus on food safety, the environment and other issues related to food production. I am very concerned that consumers should be able to experience safety and food in relation to Norwegian seafood. Therefore, it is also important to ensure a clean marine environment and a good fish health status where animal welfare considerations are also taken into account and systems to ensure that products are safe. The work against Sellafield is an example in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1089	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1092	For a girl from Asker, where there are few fishing vessels, fisheries policy has been good food. It's exciting to get into the nutrition committee and get to work on such a field. When I was going to start reading about fishing, I started with the press release, which the Minister for Fisheries sent out on 9 November. The title of the press release states: «Resource control and research characterise the budget of the Ministry of Fisheries.» And on the other hand, ‘The commitment to resource control and efforts to trigger the value creation potential of fisheries and aquaculture is an embodiment of the government’s draft budget.’ But when I read St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 4 pages 149 and 150, I see that the government Bondevik II cuts cap. 1023 item 50 Norwegian Research Council grants of 20 million. kr, they cut entry 70 Grants Fishing research in Tromsø by 3 million. kr, they cut the cap. 1050 Item 73 Grants to Fisheries Competence Centre of 2.5 million. kr, and they cut the cap. 2415 SND, fisheries and other regional policy measures item 74 Contributions to industrial development in the marine sector of 30 million. kr. My question is then: how can Minister Ludvigsen in his press release say that they are betting on research? Has he read the wrong budget line? Or has he taken the press release from former fisheries minister Gregussen and put his name on? I would like an answer from Mr Ludvigsen, Minister for Fisheries. Where is the investment in research?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1109	The questioner concluded that for her, fisheries policy had so far been about good food, and she had tried to read up. The question is that you should have spent more time reading – and then you could have eaten good and safe Norwegian food next to it. In fact, this budget is characterised by a commitment to research and resource control. I could explain in detail both of them. If I were to concentrate on resource control, I would point out that we in the budget follow up on the effort we made this year, in 2001, when 8 million were allocated. Extra kroner. The 18 posts are continued. This is a real increase in the Directorate-General for Fisheries' budget of 31 million. kr, to be used for increased investment in resource control, management of aquaculture and safe sea food. These are bets that you can't ignore if you read long enough. And you should do that when you ask questions about it. As I explained in my article, a number of measures are being taken to improve control of the landings. In addition, there is considerable investment, even greater than that, in research and development, both through the SND system, through direct appropriations for institutes and through the deployment of a new research vessel. So trying to make it look as if you're not paying for innovation is wrong, the more because, through tax policy, you give businesses a better basis for self-financing of that kind of activity. A tax relief of SEK 1.5 billion on double taxation, as it was claimed, means that business is able to contribute to financing innovation even within this exciting industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1118	The Council of State said that he was pleased that the majority supported the fisheries budget. I want to put it this way: I'm not quite as happy as the Council of State, because there are things here that I almost have to hold my nose to vote for, to say it this way. And that applies to what the previous line shift went on, that is, this is research. I feel that what's being taken away is exactly what's going on in the industries that fall outside all of the other tools. But that's not what I was going to ask. We know that the capacity of the fishing fleet is too large. Then a tried center party method, easy to create a few meters limit, which has led to the greatest accumulation of capacity gain in history, in the form of boats less than 28 meters. The Council of State has some thoughts about changing the policy so that we really get reduced capacity in the fishing fleet, among other things. may know the unit quota scheme for all boats over 15 metres, e.g.? It could be an idea. And then I want to ask the Council of State, because we know how uncomfortable it is between fishermen who are at sea all year round, and the scientists who take a trip once or twice a year at G. O. Sars: Could it be an idea that the marine scientists were on board the fishing boats and were on board them – let alone what they are doing in Russia – so that one might get a little better communication with the marine professionals who claim that there are more fish than the marine scientists want, and that perhaps the fishermen also got a little more understanding of the predictions that the marine scientists are making? This might lead to more like a fixture to output, so that the nourishment becomes viable and a resource for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1127	There were many questions in a short time, but I will try to answer them as long as the clock allows. First, the commitment to research and development in the marine sector is at hand. The changes that this government is promoting in relation to the original proposals of the Stoltenberg Government do not stem from the fact that the four main areas of activity, one of which is the marine sector, are established both in the Research Council and in the Ministry of Fisheries. It is still a priority to focus on innovation and research. And as I explained a little while ago, you're actually betting on cod farming. So to this with fleet overcapacity. Parts of the fleet have had structural adjustments that have produced results. We see that it has contributed to increased profitability in the industry, and that recruitment is better. And one of the greatest challenges in the future is to adapt the fishing fleet to the resource base, because this is also a problem in relation to the resource take-off. And the ministry has planned and implemented a number of measures. In particular, we will introduce access restrictions in several fisheries and special quota arrangements will be established for vessels below 28 metres. Special quota arrangements will enable vessel owners to join forces and jointly identify appropriate forms of cooperation that ensure a more rational operation than we have seen up to now. In addition, the industry itself has taken the initiative to set up a Structural Fund for the fishing fleet, which is intended to buy out capacity. Together with other operational arrangements, such a fund could effectively contribute to fleet capacity reduction and, in the context of the fisheries agreement negotiated recently, it has also been included in the Protocol that this is a task and a responsibility that the industry and the State must bear jointly, precisely to provide the basis for more profitable units in all parts of the fleet by buying out overcapacity permanently. That's how far I ran.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1141	I'm afraid that the alliances I mentioned in my previous post came strongly into the answer that the Council of State gave to the representative Grethe Fossli. In the Stoltenberg Government's budget proposal, I found some information on page 103 of the Ministry of Fisheries' budget. Here were the beautiful words about the lack of economic development in the marine sector. Special mention was made here of the Innovation Programme for the commercial exploitation of marine resources. Yes, believe it or not, this actually also thought SV is good – hip hurrah! Furthermore, the aim of this programme was to contribute to the growth of the fisheries and aquaculture industries and to the realisation of the potential for value added in the industry. There was a lot of excitement about new species in farming, about commercial exploitation of marine mammals, about the development of new technologies osb. I also believe that the Council of State may agree that fish rarely get the attention he has received, and in the debate about its budget, he has drowned a little, to say so. It may not be so strange, because cutting off the Ministry of Fisheries' budget doesn't look so dramatic at first sight. But cut at 35 million. kr on the expenditure side of a budget that initially amounted to 431 million. kr, corresponds to almost 10 pst. It then turns out that the budget in the Ministry of Fisheries is as large as that in the food budget and in the agricultural budget. It's actually said quite a lot reasonable from the Storting's pulpit. In 1995, a man said the following: ‘The potential for value-added is now in a transition from today’s commodity-oriented industry to more processing and market orientation. This requires, inter alia, increased industrial research and development competence.» 20 in style, 20 in content, you ask me. If there is doubt, the present representative of Svein Ludvigsen was the one who said this. I was not told from the spokesperson of Stortinget. The quotation was part of the text of an interview by the representative Svein Ludvigsen That's why I want to ask the Council of State, has the Council of State changed its mind? Was not the innovation program for the commercial exploitation of marine resources a lukewarm idea anyway? Or was it that the program was so stupid that it had hidden under an SND chapter, which made it impossible for the council to support the program further?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1163	I thank you for the sporty characters, both in style and in content. Even if they're late, we get to thank them when they get here. It is such that I have not changed my perception, style or content in this matter of triggering and having faith in the value creation potential of the Norwegian fishing and aquaculture industry. I am convinced that the potential of value creation in this sector is primarily limited by imagination and not by allocations over SND. The employment potential in the future is likely to be limited by the ability to provide sufficient labour along the coast. But it's not that you can only trigger it by certain appropriations from the SND budget or by research funds. It's an important element in it. But the industry's self-financing is at least equally important, and therefore it is so important that through tax policy we contribute to stimulating business. So, in the Ministry of Fisheries' budget, there's a significant investment, and if we look at it over time, it's so that in the ten-year period from 1989 to 1999, it turns out that R & D appropriations had almost zero growth, and marine R & D actually had a relative decline. What we're seeing now is that it's a bet, and on the Ministry of Fisheries's budget, including the new vessel, it's an increase of 392 million. kr, 56 pst. How to produce it as a decline and a non-stake on aquaculture and on the fishing industry is a mystery to me. It is, therefore, the case that both research and development rates are being set and that results must be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1177	When even the Progress Party is so clearly expressing dissatisfaction with the Government's development in the marine sector, I might have, as the Council of State, reduced the number of cigarettes slightly in relation to the answers given to us who are new in the nutrition committee and who are also not hiding the fact that we are new in the nutrition committee. Because I'm assuming the Council of State won't deny that it's actually that he's taking away $30 million. kr from SND's planned commitment to industrial development in the marine sector. It's a fact. The Council of State manages one of the smallest budgets in the College of Government. Then there's an obvious question: why did he have to cut right there, in that budget that's already so small? Why did he have to take $30 million? Is it from this budget? It should have been unnecessary in my opinion, given that the budget of the Ministry of Fisheries is already so limited. We've got a government that will deplete the state's responsibility for participation in business. That's one thing. But that it will also reduce research and development efforts within a sector with the expected potential of the marine sector, I think it is surprising. If it continues like this, as Nordlys writes in a comment, we'll never get out of the starting pit. All — including the Council of State in its previous reply — point out that there is a high potential for value creation in the fisheries and aquaculture industry. Nevertheless, we never get any further because we don't use enough tools to get out of the pit. That's what happens when you cut 30 million. kr for industrial development in this area. From the business side, it points out, among other things: that this is a danger in relation to the future use of cod farming. Was it really necessary to do this? And will the Council of State, as requested by the Committee, review the situation in relation to the revised national budget and possibly come back with a draft budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1188	To take the last one first: what the Council of State and the Government had to come back to in future budgets in terms of one or the other budget chapter, we'll see when the time is ripe. However, the representative can be absolutely certain that this government will be very vigilant in the development of the aquaculture industry and the fishing industry, precisely because there is a potential. But the representative Arnstad as well as Nordlys, to whom she referred, makes a serious mistake when they say we don't get out of the starter pit. The fact is, we're way up on the rise side. The fact that the centre party is still in the starting pit in relation to this industry is in that case the problem of the centre party. The rest of us are about to get up on the rise side. I recall that salmon, which is a success story in the Norwegian fishing industry, is a success that was not primarily brought forward by the SND. It was brought out by the industry itself, carried out by scientists who believed. But when it is almost made into a be or not as to whether to trigger the potential, that it must be at the level of the Workers' Party, as they suggested in their original draft budget, I ask the question that the Minister of Industry also raised: how can it be linked that the Workers' Party has proposed cuts in the SND year after year? This is therefore not entirely related. But I underline: the aquaculture industry and the fishing industry are among the industries with the highest growth potential, and we have invested considerable resources both for research vessels, for innovation and for the institutes. This is going to produce results, and we're going to be in the future as well. I would like to remind you that priorities in the marine sector are fixed both in the priorities of the Research Council and the Ministry of Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1199	I'm a little uncertain whether the Council of State got a little hurt on me, based on the way he responded to my reply. But it is then known that the development and the massive investment that it has been put up for on the research side has been made by the government of Stoltenberg in St.prp. No 1st@item: And it is then known that the cuts that have been made have been made by the government of Bondevik. I can't have read so wrong. Although I am new, I promise the Minister for Fisheries to follow closely, but then we must have a slightly different tone than he did in his answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1204	No, the Minister for Fisheries is in no way sore about meeting someone who also understands that fish are good and safe food, and that fisheries policy is interesting. But this does not prevent the Minister for Fisheries from having an opinion on whether or not he has read enough when he or she wants to get into it. It is clear that the original proposal that was on the table was the Stoltenberg government's. We have carried out some cuts, even on the basis of an overall assessment that would help improve business conditions. I am not in any doubt for a moment that the tax cuts and tax cuts that the Government has agreed to, and that the Stortinget seems to be providing its support, and the opportunities that now exist for getting an interest cut after we have gone through a period of record interest, will help to ensure that not least the fishing industry, the aquaculture industry and the fishing boats get significant cost cuts. They will then be better able to participate and take their share of the innovation that is taking place, because at the same time we see that the main incentive to succeed in innovation and development is not primarily to get government funds, but to invest competent capital, and that those who invest capital have a self-interest in succeeding. The contribution of public funds to this is also provided in the budget presented by this government, which will receive full support in the Stortinget this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1216	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1219	It is ‘with amazement I record that our new government presents such a district hostile industrial policy as they do in their draft budget for next year’. These are not my words, but a verbatim quote from a newspaper post that the profiled right-wing rapporteur of the Kvänangen in Troms, Harald Olsen, had in Nordlys on November 20, this year. I share the amazement of the rapporteur, Mr Olsen, but I am probably most amazed at the Christian People's Party in this context. We have hardly ever seen such a dramatic shift in the attitude towards district and industrial policy that the whole reversal of the Christian People's Party has now taken place. I noticed that the Minister of Industry said in the finance debate that he had not yet met a single trader who preferred the budget of the Stoltenberg government rather than the budget presented by the current government. I am surprised at this, because we in the Business Committee, and other representatives, have received many enquiries from entrepreneurs in the whole country about the serious consequences of the cuts in the Bondevik II government's budget proposals for business and district. Both businessmen and politicians have had hopes that the Workers' Party would be able to rectify this, but this opportunity is gone as long as the Christian People's Party will not be able to form a majority for the policy the voters have believed the Christian People's Party really stood for. Most worryingly, I think it is that the instruments for developing the fisheries and aquaculture industry are being cut. We are talking here about an industry with an enormous potential for increased value creation and with opportunities for the establishment of safe and good jobs in the districts and elsewhere in the country. The aim must continue to be to maximise the value creation where the local raw material is located. But if we're going to do this, there has to be access to risk capital. This will not be possible without a strong SND. The municipal food funds have also been important to provide start-up assistance to those who have wanted to start business and to facilitate local business. Here it is about helping people who want to do something, and who see the possibilities and importance of continuing value creation and housing in the districts. To me, how tax relief is intended to replace the important role of SND and the local food funds is completely incomprehensible. I would like to draw attention to what the majority of the Committee has said about the cuts in the grant for industrial development in the marine sector, and to the fact that an overall committee asks that the Government possibly have to come back with proposals for funding in the revised national budget for 2002. This shows that there are more here in the Storting than the Labour Party and the other opposition who are deeply concerned about the consequences of the new policy line we are now seeing. I am pleased that a large majority in the Committee ask the Government to investigate as soon as possible a system to ensure that Norwegian seafarers can compete for the jobs of Norwegian shipping. I also believe it is important to enter into dialogue with the EU in order to find common rules on subsidisation in shipping. Norway has a long tradition as a shipping nation, and we have great competence in this area. It is important that we ensure that this important industry can still have its place in Norway, and that we can still recruit Norwegian seafarers to the Norwegian fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1247	The special thing about Norway is that we don't have housing across the country; the special thing about Norway is that we have a nutrient base across the country. Agriculture is a very important part of this nutrient base. Today, we are going to adopt a budget in framework area 11, agriculture, and the debate today has shown that there is quite a consensus on the objectives we have. It is stressed that we will continue to have decentralised agriculture with a varied structure of use in the future. So we're still going to use the nutrient base that we have. In its draft budget, the Government has proposed that we review agricultural tax rules early in 2002. At this crossroads, we have put an end to a proposal from the Stoltenberg government on an 18 million increase in fees. kr by extending the levy base for feed for domestic animals. The agricultural industry itself claims that this industry has made the most efficient over the past few years. There is a statement I agree with, but here it is necessary to point out that this efficiency has taken place within a framework and agreement that has not just given individual users the special freedom to take their own action, and at least no freedom to make new approaches. The efficiency is the result of the fact that each farmer has worked longer days, worked harder and bought more expensive tractors that have been given less time to work. The disadvantage is that the expensive investment is not being used optimally. The tractor is used shorter time, and it is longer in the garage. Either a tractor is used or it is in the garage, drawing it on the capital expenditure. I am pleased that the Minister of Agriculture has expressed in several contexts that it is time to review the legislation. That is, we can let more people who want to co-operate in form, pick that form. We can also have other forms of cooperation in the future, where someone chooses to enter a limited liability company with machines or capital. To make the picture simple, this means that the expensive tractor can be used for several hours. It also means that the individual holder can obtain the free time he wants in a completely different way from what he has the opportunity to do today. We just want to let the farmer go. We want to change the system so that we can maintain the positive impact of agriculture on the country's value creation. The budget also emphasises the importance of coordinating State supervision in one State. The forthcoming reorganisation of control activities shall lead to enhanced control, both with imported and Norwegian-produced food, ensuring quality and preventing infection and disease. The budget we are about to adopt today is the basis for us to expect a fall in interest rates next year. The numbers tell us that if we get an interest rate decrease of 1 pst, that means that agriculture as an industry gets 400 million. NOK in reduced expenditure. If we look at this together with the announced review of the tax rules, I have no problem justifying that the draft budget proposes a reduction of 300 million. cap. 1150. I am optimistic on behalf of Norwegian agriculture. It is an industry with broad competence and great versatility. Above all, this industry is made up of people who do a lot of work. By providing the industry with opportunities to continue to exploit the nutrient base we have, we are opening up to continued growth and a positive development of Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1264	There is a broad consensus that Norway needs more bones to stand on as revenue from the oil industry will decrease. Fishing and aquaculture are already one of our most important export industries and have significant growth potential. There are significant opportunities for growth in the traditional fishing industry. The greatest possibility is actually through increased value creation as a result of better resource management, but then we also have obvious opportunities to increase the processing of the raw material that we bring to land. We must have greater ambitions than to load the fish on trailers that bring it to processing in industrial plants in other countries. Secondly, we have significant opportunities for growth in the aquaculture industry, not least aquaculture of marine species. We now see a significant interest in growing cod. In a few years' time, whole-year access to fresh cod from farming may constitute a value creation equivalent to the current production of salmonids. Thirdly, there are significant opportunities for the development of marine biotechnology. There's hardly any disagreement about this, but we don't get on with just talking. The Labour Party Government presented in the long-term programme four sectors where Norway has special advantages and special clusters under which we need to build up. Marine sector is one of them. At the same time, we need to target research efforts. Marine sector is one of four priority research areas. The Labour Party launched a programme through the SND for the development of business opportunities in the marine sector. We wanted a national strategy for industrial biotechnology, and we wanted a national effort to grow cod, with Troms and Finnmark as spearheads in development. But it wasn't just talk, we started the marine sector development programme. The Labour Party Government's draft budget increased the appropriations for fisheries and aquaculture research by 60 pst. - 60 pst. - In one year. I should like to thank the Minister for the confidence he has shown in cutting the budget of the Ministry of Fisheries by 65 million. kr, still believes that there is so much left of the Workers' Party's bet that there is a basis for saying that there is a stake in next year's budget. We bet, we bet. Norway must have the ambition to be the world's leading fishing nation. But what do we experience with the new government? Yes, fishing research is cut by 30 million. kr in relation to the proposals of the Labour Party Government. It is difficult to see that this is a government that wants to invest in the fishing industry. The Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Industry's appropriations for the development programme for the fisheries industry are cut to a minimum. Every penny that the Ministry of Fisheries would grant for the commercialisation of development opportunities in the marine sector is gone. Every penny that the Minister of Industry would allow for the commercialisation of opportunities in the marine sector is gone. At the same time, we have also made significant cuts in the programming effort by the Ministry of Local Affairs. This means that the effort on the development of the fishing industry will be eliminated. In addition, the general economic and district policy cuts, which relate to the financing of the fleet, in relation to the financing of the industry, come in relation to the financing of the aquaculture industry and which are proportionate to laying the basis for a development under which the various regional policy instruments are to be built. And then representatives of the government parties perform to stand on this pulpit and praise and say that they are satisfied that the government's budget in the fisheries sector is adopted unchanged. That they have the guts for it! It was a bet, however, the Bondevik government has removed the bet. I have to say that makes me very sad to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1281	Norwegian competitiveness has gradually deteriorated throughout the 1990s. This has led to the loss of market share and terrain in Norwegian industry compared to competitors in the market. When we see clear signs that economic trends are changing negatively in some of our main markets, it is particularly important, in our opinion, to give Norwegian business good and predictable framework conditions. Despite the fact that the new government had only three weeks to prepare a budget, we see clearly that it represents a new course in Norwegian industrial policy. The budget indicates that the Government wants to go from special individual measures to a generally good business environment. The proposal is an important contribution to strengthening competitiveness and reducing the high level of interest rates and contributes to increased research and development efforts. The design of the tax system plays a major role in the development of private ownership in business. The government's proposal to wind up the dividend tax and the proposal for tax relief for companies' investment in research and development gives business significantly better conditions. The double taxation of dividends on shares has led to distortions in investments, from shares to other savings items. Moreover, the dividend tax has also led to Norwegian owners being discriminated against in relation to foreign and public owners. The abolition of dividend taxes will once again establish neutrality in corporate and capital taxation. Tax relief on options in employment will strengthen the ability of enterprises to increase employee ownership in enterprises. This proposal could facilitate access by start-ups to labour and contribute to the use of options to a greater extent as a positive instrument for enterprises, in particular those in the start-up phase. Business-based research is significantly lower with us than with our main trading partners. The Government has therefore proposed to introduce tax deductions for 20 pst. the costs of research and development in small and medium-sized enterprises. A trend towards a gradual decline in the competitiveness of Norwegian industry underlines the importance of having an evolving business life, a business that is able to compete with our trading partners. The proposal on tax credits will provide incentives for Norwegian companies to invest more in R & D, thus representing an important means of achieving the average OECD level in our research efforts. Communication technology will shape the development of Norwegian business in the time to come. It is therefore very important that Norway be able to keep up with developments. ICT can help to facilitate the establishment of businesses in the districts and to maintain housing in the districts through profitable enterprises producing services that can be distributed and produced using new technologies. We believe it is the market and not politicians who know best which technology to invest in. What we politicians must do, on the other hand, is ensure a level playing field for operators in the telecoms sector. Only when competition is real will consumers have access to the latest and most competitive technology, at good prices. One measure is to ensure that more actors can provide digital services through capacity leases. The industrial policy of the Workers' Party has led to the fact that, in the absence of a well-functioning capital market, the State has had to act as a risk-bearing investor. With the framework conditions proposed by the cooperation parties for Norwegian business, conditions are much better suited to ensure that the private market will have more incentives to invest capital in Norwegian business. The role of SND in certain programmes can therefore be adjusted. Private investors are better at assessing the profitability of different investments than what we politicians are through our allocations to SND. For some enterprises in District Norway, access to the private capital market may be more difficult than for enterprises in central districts. We therefore believe that SND’s activities in general should be targeted at areas where the market and private services are not functioning properly. SND should have a central role for these enterprises in their Idea, Development and Commercialisation phase. We want SND to be a support for businesses in the districts, not one of Norway's largest venture capitalists.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1304	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1307	It is with considerable wonder I hear the Workers' Party's speakers describe the Christian People's Party's industrial policy. Our approach to being a business founder is that it should be possible to build an enterprise by laying stones. By introducing provisions for research and development, it shall be possible to reinvest some of the returns, in other words, to expand by means of own acid-acquired crowns. It was also this process of thinking that was behind district taxes that the Borten government introduced in 1969. There is a lot of private capital in Norway. The challenge is to make it attractive with positive means to channel part of this capital into productive business. Municipal wage funds are not liquidated, as claimed. It's just that it won't be filled this year, but we, who were municipal politicians when this scheme was introduced, know that at first there were no annual refills either. From the opposition it is still claimed that the Christian People's Party has been forcing Right's industrial policy. The Sem declaration is a result of the policy of three parties, including in this area. That's why we believe that this will be a tough policy. For a founder who has also experienced rejection by SND because the development of a product has come too far – in other words, one who has shown too much private initiative without asking the case handler in advance – it is very important to simplify and perhaps also to clean up some schemes. I'm asking the question. Through the Sem Declaration, the co-operation administration has set out the model of a good agricultural policy. It has been mentioned earlier by other speakers from the Christian People's Party, so I won't go far into it. Efforts to put this policy into practice so that rural practitioners are given the conditions under which young people too can see the need to bet on skills/employee skills. This challenge will be shared by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1324	I will not try to lengthen the debate unnecessarily, but it was the Minister for Fisheries who answered and, not least, acted on the lines that necessitated a small article from my side. Firstly, even if more parties today vote in favour of the budget, it is not necessarily an expression of full agreement. When the Government has approved the budget today, it comes first of all from the Prime Minister's cabinet and the Stortinget's budgetary rules. The comments in the setting show that there is a number that is actually very skeptical about what the new government is doing with the Ministry of Fisheries' budget and the tools in other budgets. With critical questions to the Minister for Fisheries today, it is not because of lack of transparency but because of the realities of the policy of the new government. The new government has cut in several areas, and then it must be legitimate for big business representatives to try to get an answer to why that has happened. When the Fisheries Minister chooses to answer these questions with personal attacks, I expect that it is because he does not have good enough answers. But if I can get a advice, it must be that state councils, especially in a minority government, try to act in such a way that it is easy to cooperate with the committee responsible for their area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1333	I think I noticed a little undertone at the end of the debate of a significant degree of hair ulceration. I did not see the Minister for Fisheries as having a layman who bears the mark that he adorns the debate by attacking persons. But it must be possible in a debate like this to pursue a certain degree of self-defense, based on the adjectives that the opposition representatives have performed in this debate. I don't understand how Aksensen can choose to interpret it so that there is no majority of the government's budget proposals, with the small adjustments it makes up for here, and how he is at the same time able to interpret the presentation by the Progress Party of his alternative to being a contribution that is more towards supporting the policy as represented today by the SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party. Then I think you have to go in the closet and think a little bit more carefully about what kind of alternative it is the Progress Party will stand for in its political activity. Now I have heard the representatives of the Workers' Party appear as the purest hay valley and represent a shelf in all of the 24 framework areas. So it's not just in the Ministry of Fisheries' budget that there's noise around the cuts that's being done. And it's okay that Schjøtt-Pedersen turns on the big business -- it's not the first time -- but it's interesting to record how he's able to put aside the impact of the measures proposed by the Government in the field of research and in the field of tax policy. If you ignore the fact that the Research Council is provided with increased resources, that the Research Fund is upgrading its budget, that there are tax incentives under the R & D system that will clearly strengthen research efforts, if you also ignore the fact that tax incentives are given to non-taxable companies, which make them net paid 20 pst. of its research efforts, disregarding the impact of the savings in terms of yield tax also has on the fishing industry, and if one chooses to ignore the effect of an interest rate cut, which we are betting on getting in place, yes, then there is evidence to stand on the ice. But I think it's a thin ice Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen is moving on in this debate. And when he's talking about that one has the stomach to defend such a budget, with reference to the cut in marine research of 30 million. kr, it must be allowed to ask Schjøtt-Pedersen how he had the stomach to leave himself a bill of 35 million. kr, which was a sub-budgetation of the removal costs of the Coastal Directorate to Ålesund. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1344	The President must recommend that the speaking time be followed. The President understands that there is a lot to say, but the President believes that the clock is so many that it is necessary to tighten up the use of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1347	Right Ivar Kristiansen talked about both hairyness and going in the closet. We in SV are not hairy, we are not, but we are very disappointed by Kjell Magne Bondevik and the Christian People's Party. I have to be allowed to say that. I listened to Bondevik many times in the election campaign, where he repeatedly underlined what was the Christian People's Party's field of action – and was always a district policy with. I didn't intend to go in the closet. I had been thinking about the field with Bondevik and playing district policy – play the ball. And then I experience that Bondevik and the Christian People's Party are kicking the district political ball beyond the sideline. Then you get disappointed, you almost want to go in the closet. SV considers that the budget presented was difficult to deal with. I just want to stress that we are going to vote against the framework in all three areas, because we believe that there is an irresponsible budget the Stortinget intends to adopt this evening. That is an explanation of vote on our part.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1356	What makes me take the floor is probably the last answer from the Minister for Fisheries, where he states that with his draft budget, the Right must have come out of the pit with regard to the investment in the marine sector, while the Centre Party – and also North Light – I understood – is still standing back in the pit because we dare to flatten our mouth and criticize the Government for having cut 30 million. kr for the development of the marine sector. Since the Council of State clearly believes that it is only the Central Party that has the stomach to criticise that kind of thing at all, I will only be allowed to refer from a press release that was sent out of the Fisheries Industry Association earlier this month, where they indicate that the fish processing companies are among those who are hardest hit by the Government's proposal for cuts in SND's appropriations. They also indicate that the Government justifies its proposal with the introduction of favourable tax rules for enterprises. But it will only benefit the established and the largest, and they believe that SND has been the most important innovation tool in the sector they represent. So there's more than one centurion who thinks that these cuts are a problem, just so they're told to inform the Minister for Fisheries as well. After the last right post, I really don't know who it is that works the most hair ulcers here in the hall. But at the end of this debate, I just want to say that, in fact, there is no majority for the budget that is here today. The budget that lies here today is only adopted because they chose to put their first cabinet question on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1365	As the president said, it's getting late in the evening, and I see that the president is starting to get a little bit of time. Anyway, I think we're going to spend the time that's necessary. What made me take the floor was Schjøtt-Pedersen, who has now left the hall – I don't know if it's to dry the crocodile tears he delivered on the pulpit. But when Schjøtt-Pedersen says that it is “very sad to see” the government’s efforts in relation to research, I assume that that sadness will come quite quickly when he comes out of the hall. There have been many numbers back and forth in the air, but what is an indisputable fact is that next year's government proposals for the state budget have a research framework of NOK 11.7 billion. That's an increase of 9.7 pst. from the previous year. However, it is true that there is a reduction in the starting point of the Stoltenberg government of 263 million. kr. But then we increased the Research and Innovation Fund by 2 billion kroner. The return of that fund is part of the research. In addition, we have extended the tax incentives scheme to enterprises with up to 100 employees instead of 50. And that will also apply to companies that are not in the tax position. I think that to the extent that one is willing to wear a couple of objective glasses, one could at least say that the level of research in total is – whether one proposal is 10, 20, 50 or 100 million. kr larger or less than the other, I think it's hard to say – roughly equal. And then you can trap the crocodile tears you had to have available. When it comes to why we've cut different places, it's pretty obvious. This is because we have been discriminated against for quite consecutive reasons: we have invested in general framework conditions and on reduced taxes, which is a significant reason why we are likely to have a fall in interest rates, which is perhaps more important for Norwegian business, Norwegian households and Norwegian municipalities than many of the entries that are willing to trap crocodile tears. So until the end of the SND, Bendiks H. Arnesen again had a misreference to what I said in the finance debate. I recognise that requests for individual items have been made. It's always going to be like that. What I have said is that I have not yet received any enquiries to show that in sum, for example. in an industry or in an enterprise would prefer the draft budget of the Stoltenberg Government. And since Bendiks H. Arnesen had a heavy pile, as he said, it could have been interesting at least to have presented one of these names. I had this challenge in the financial debate. And there might be evidence like that, I'm just saying that I haven't seen it yet. But the debate is not over yet, even though the President is a little stressed in relation to the time factor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1378	The President is not stressed. The President has no intention whatsoever of stopping this debate. The president just suggested that we had to keep the speaking time allocated, which is now 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1384	That made sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1391	In connection with this, inter alia: I can confirm that Arnesen is not the only one who received a lot of mail before Christmas – and it has not been a Christmas card. There have been relatively many enquiries about the cuts, especially in SND and in industrial policy in general. And I think that some of the most interesting recordings have come from innovation companies, which emphasise that tax measures cannot compensate for cuts in the regional and industrial instruments, simply because the companies affected are not in a tax position. And then the question is how are we going to get this innovation -- that's the point. But that's actually not why I asked for the floor. The Council of State inspired me to take the floor because of the government's constant emphasis on the possibilities of a fall in interest rates. Yes, there are opportunities for a fall in interest rates, and the market expects a decrease. But it's not a result of this government's policy. This government has exactly the same main economic framework and the same main economic mechanism underpinning the budget of the Stoltenberg Government. And I'm happy that the rules of action were adhered to. I was among those who appealed very strongly that one should do so, because otherwise one would have weakened confidence in Norwegian economic policy, and one would have had a great risk of not getting ahead of the interest rate drop that the market is now expecting. But when you use the prospect of a possible fall in interest rates as a reason for having to cut the budget, it's going to be a real hesitation. It is then that priorities have been set within the framework that it has been important to maintain in order to bring about a possible fall in interest rates. This government has prioritised cutting 65 million. on fisheries, cutting important appropriations for SND, industrial development, rural policy, etc., in order to bring about other things. But you shouldn't try to make it like these cuts were necessary to get a drop in interest rates. On the contrary, these cuts are the result of political priorities. But the main economic framework was well at the heart of this decline in interest rates through the budget of the Stoltenberg government. It was also confirmed in the previous Governing Council meeting of Norway’s Bank, where they changed the outlook for future price developments, which in turn means that the outlook for a fall in interest rates is estimated to be greater after the presentation of the budget than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1400	The President is somewhat uncertain whether the 'pure and sharp hesitation' is stretching it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1403	I am fully aware of that. But the truth is it's allowed to say from the Great Council's pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1408	At least the President will point out that it is a very bad response to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1411	Let me say right away, I don't need to characterize Schjøtt-Pedersen. I think he usually does very well himself. What was my point with regard to the priorities we have made in the budget in relation to a possible fall in interest rates is the following: I am not saying that the redeployments we have made are the cause of any fall in interest rates, and that what was the alternative, the priorities that were made within the same financial framework of the Stoltenberg government, should have a completely different perspective with regard to these things. But I'm assuming that economist Schjøtt-Pedersen agrees with me that if, within the same economic framework, you reduce the cost and give tax incentives, at least the possibility increases. It doesn't have the same effect if you choose to give it as a tax bill or as a cost – or maybe he doesn't agree with Norway's Bank's analysis at that point? I see it as a generally accepted economic theory that if you choose to give a cut in the cost side to give it a corresponding tax relief, it has a more favourable effect on the possibilities of lower interest rates than choosing the option: keeping expenditure at a higher level. I have understood that this is the case, based on previous budget proposals also promoted by Schjøtt-Pedersen, and I see it well in the proposition that lies at the root of the harvest, that there is some of the picture in relation to the 7 billion DKK that was the full-year effect of the tax reductions from the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1420	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1436	The Committee has examined this matter concerning the need for increased appropriations for natural damage compensation in the State budget for the current year. Appropriations for compensation for natural disasters have been adjusted to a year of average damage and compensation is paid after the damage has been rectified. The time limit for the correction is three years and this affects the annual payment. The Committee has noted that the floods in the South and East countries and in the Nordic countries last autumn have caused an exceptional amount of damage. There was therefore a need for additional appropriations, and I refer to comments on it in the settings. I would recommend the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1449	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 751]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1465	No one has asked for the floor. The size has now come to the examination of case No. 7 on Agenda No 24th@item: inlistbox [[See page 752]] In the event of an incurrency, the matter under consideration has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal – it is then deemed adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1487	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 752]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1503	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 752]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1511	Then we go to voting in the remaining cases, no. 4–8 that we have had for treatment in the evening meeting. It is a long and very demanding vote, so we hope that we will come through it together.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1518	In the course of the debate, 16 proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, from Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 3 and 4, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 5-15, by Mr Hedstrom on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 16, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 16th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose exemption from the payment of fees to the business register in the event of a new registration of business.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1548	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5–15, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to adapt the fee revenue to the operation of the Brønn Island Health Registers by incorporating the level of fees in line with the principle of self-financing over a 2-year period for budgets 2003 and 2004 in order to accommodate business in the form of a reduced fee.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to raise the level of support in the reimbursement scheme for seafarers to 20 pst. of gross wage and salary costs and include bending loaders for the transport of crude oil in addition to other vessels operating in petroleum and wellboats at the same level of reimbursement.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for changes to the tax and tax system in order to convert the reimbursement scheme for ferry companies into a net model according to Swedish pattern.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish a net model that can be applied to all Norwegian seafarers who are exposed to international competition. It is assumed that the Government will present concrete proposals in the 2002 Revised National Budget.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a reorganization of standardisation activities with a view to establishing a system in which the overall responsibility for all standardisation work is added to the Ministry of Industry and Trade.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to submit proposals for the repeal of the Sale of Goods Act.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to repeal the Law of 31 May 1974 No. 19 on the concession by acquisition of immovable property.’» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for the winding-up of concessional limits granted under the Purchase Farming Act.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a system of tradable production quotas for milk not limited to local, county or regional level but made nationally.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to Section 8.2(2a) of the Tax Act so that the tax advantage of the Forest Tax Scheme is removed and the tax advantage increased to 50 pst. from 2003 onwards.’» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate and propose the sale of parts of the SF’s productive coniferous forests.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1616	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government requests the submission of a proposal for a fund that can contribute to investment in order to achieve the objective of access to broadband for all households by 2004’.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asked the Government to issue a tax deduction scheme for companies investing in broadband. The case is submitted to the Storting during 2002.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1637	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: "Change in State holding itemsThe majority agrees that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade in 2002 may:1. reduce the State holding in Cermaq ASA to 51 pst.12. [[under foundation]] sell the State’s shares in Arcus AS13. make arrangements for and implement the sale of the shares of SND Invest AS.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1695	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Trust agrees that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is authorised to sell the State’s shares in Moxy Trucks ASselge State’s shares in Arcus ASselge State’s shares in AS Olivinlage a settlement and execution of the sale of the shares in SND Invest AS’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e1722	The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution, and we will begin with the framework section 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e3187	Under this frame area, some Roman numerals remain that are argued over separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e3198	The President has understood that the Right and Christian People's Party will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e3218	The President assumes that the Socialist Left wants to vote against. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e3238	The President assumes that the Socialist Left wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e3263	Let's go to area 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e3702	In that case, we have reached the framework area 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-06-2.ana.ud2605e5471	There is no record.
