ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e43	Applications for sick leave are submitted by the Coastal Party Group to the representative Steinar Bastesen from 27 November until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Karl-Anton Swensen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e61	Karl-Anton Swensener present and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e68	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e73	I propose Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e78	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and Finn Martin Vallersnes are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and Finn Martin Vallersnes are considered unanimously elected presidents of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e86	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 4 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e131	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be organised as follows: the debate is held over two days, today and tomorrow, with a total speaking time of 7 hours and 10 minutes excluding replies and 3-minute speeches. The number time is divided into groups: the working party 110 minutes, the right 95 minutes, the progress party 65 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 60 minutes, the Christian People's Party 55 minutes, the centre party 25 minutes, the left 10 minutes, the coastal party 10 minutes. It is proposed that the change of the Rules of Procedure be arranged as follows: five lines of reply are given after the speeches by the main speakers of the political groups, parliamentary leaders, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and three lines of response by speakers with 10 minutes of speaking time or more, as well as by other Councils, regardless of their length within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e142	On 11 October, the Stoltenberg Government presented its proposal for the 2002 budget. On November 9th, the Bondevik government came with its addition. In accordance with Section 19 of the Rules of Procedure, the Financial Committee shall, by 20 November at the latest, give its opinion on the national budget and the State budget, with proposals for framework decisions on appropriations, as well as on the suspension of taxes and levies and framework grants to municipalities and counties. That's what the Finance Committee did. The Committee has had a short time to examine the budget. Of course, even if we started hearings quickly, it was difficult to start the actual treatment before the additional option was known. However, on 11 days the Committee shall have the power to complete its work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I would therefore like to pay tribute to the members of the Financial Committee for the work they have done, and not least to the secretaries who have carried out their duties in an excellent way. Of course, there is no wishful situation in which a majority of the budget was set up in the financial position. But it is my claim that this is neither my formal nor the practical responsibility of the finance committee. The committee has done its job. Why, then, did there not become budgetary unity between the government parties and the Progress Party? In the light of contemporary history, it is not so strange that it has not crystallized itself to a majority in the financial committee this year. I would like to quote a former Chairman of the Finance Committee, Lars Gunnar Lie, who referred to the subsidiary budgetary unity between the central parties, the Right and the Progress Party of the 1999 budget as follows: ‘At the same time, in our opinion, we have gone a long way – more than $3.5 billion in the first vote of the Finance Committee and now more than $2 billion in the additional vote that the Committee made late Friday evening.’ This illustrates some of the reasons why there was no budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party on next year's budget. All budgetary settlements entered into within the current budgetary system have resulted in billion-dollar changes compared to the initial proposal made by the government. For example, in 1999 the subsidiary agreement between the centre, the Right and the Advance Party gave a re-prioritisation of almost DKK 10 billion, leading to DKK 4 billion in tax reductions. For 1998, after agreement between the centre parties, the Right and the Advance Party, DKK 1.8 billion was given in tax reductions. This time the government parties' bids stopped at the top of 580 million. kr, i.e. at the base of 1 per million of the state budget. And of course, it was not possible for the Progress Party to put its footprint on the budget under such conditions. I have registered that representatives from the government parties are trying to produce this year's situation that is completely different from and incomparable with previous arrangements. What's different? In time, we have been in the almost identical situation of this harvest as we were in the autumn of 1997, when the central government came in and presented the additional position at about the same time as this year. This cannot therefore be the incomparable situation. We are this year, as in the past, in the situation that we have a minority government that provides a budget for which they want to negotiate a majority. The whole point of the negotiations is that the parties participating in them should put their stamp on it by having achieved a political impact on issues that are initially not government policy. Neither do we have any new and unique situation here that is not comparable to the previous one. The only thing that's new in this case is that we have a government that wants to reduce the overall tax and tax burden, as well as priorities different from the labor party government did. And I thought the whole point of a government shift was that a new government was going to have a different policy than the previous one. So neither is this particularly eye-catching or revolutionary. What is new and relatively alarming, on the other hand, is that we have a minority government that more and more later to believe that it is a majority government, and that it does not therefore need to establish a majority in the Storting. It emerged very clearly from the budgetary negotiations conducted between the Government Parties and the Progress Party. So what was the Progress Party asking? We made it clear before we went into negotiations that the distance between our own alternative and the government's arrangement was so faint that it would be unrealistic to use this as a starting point. That is why we went into the negotiations with a realistic starting point with clearly priority areas and real and explicit willingness to meet the government parties halfway. This would have led to a change in the order of NOK 6 billion, i.e. just under 1 pst. by the State budget. The Progress Party first prioritised removing the deteriorations made by the Bondevik Government in relation to the Stoltenberg Government: the blueprint scheme, the net pay arrangements for the ferry companies, the continuation of the landlines and the compensation for the car diesel tax for the express buses. Furthermore, the priority was to reverse proposals for fiscal tightening that are included in the budget, including company car schemes, mileage compensation, moving car schemes and various minor tax increases. We also prioritised a lower proportion of the costs of sickness, and we would have had the advantage of gradually eliminating the curtailment of the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners. We wanted faster patient treatment at our hospitals by increasing input-based funding and by including private hospitals in the input-based funding scheme. We thought it was necessary to have a stronger social profile in the tax system, and would therefore make it easier for those with low incomes and ensure that also the one-income families, all who are taxed at 1 p.m. 2 would benefit from the relief in the top tax. We wanted to ensure that the defence was funded in line with the agreed defence structure that the government parties themselves were helping to adopt a few months ago. We thought that further reductions in alcohol taxes were necessary in order to stop the border trade, and in particular we were committed to bringing about a fight against crime. We reminded the government parties of a number of promises they had made during the election campaign, both in terms of road construction and charges on both cars and motorcycles, but we also paid great attention to structural measures that would help to make the Norwegian economy more efficient and competitively exposed to large parts of the tasks of the Municipality of Norway. Of course, we had also seen the very firm attitude towards increasing the use of oil money, which led to our willingness to finance tax cuts and increased spending on cuts in other areas. Neither was this accepted by the government parties. We felt that all attempts to reach agreement were always limited by what is stated in the Sem-Declaration. But the Progress Party really assumed that since this was declared policy by the three government parties, they would, of course, also promote these proposals on their own. In other words, it's not the Progress Party's job to help the Sem comrades implement their own policies. What is our job and our commitment to our voters is to try to implement parts of the Progress Party's policies. And of course, it also had to be some of the results of a successful budget debate, namely that the Progress Party got a pass on something that we were really engaged in to an extent that was at least similar to that achieved by the Centre Party in agreement with the Workers' Party, or that was to an extent similar to any of the last budgetary agreements in this House. We didn't get that. We were offered less than 1 per million of the total state budget – historically small and thus alarming in the sense that the government parties should know better. The Prime Minister himself made a number of the size of the central parties' movements in negotiations with the Labour Party for the current year's budget. Why should the situation be different this year? Therefore, in the financial position, the Progress Party has concentrated on presenting its alternative and comprehensive budget line. The Progress Party is committed to facilitating higher growth conditions and to ensuring that the Norwegian economy does not enter a short-term recession. That's why we with some wonder record that the government has not taken this inwards. There is a marked deterioration in the world economy, and fiscal measures should be taken to help prevent a possible Norwegian recession. Nor will there be any contradiction between such measures and long-term economic growth policies. The main economic policy objective of the Progress Party is to increase well-being through higher economic growth, lower taxes and taxes, improving public service provision, lower unemployment and low and stable inflation. Low and stable inflation is a prerequisite for a low and stable level of interest rates. However, the Progress Party believes that the Government's proposals will lead to low economic growth and increased unemployment, and that they do not provide sufficient guarantees for low and stable inflation and, therefore, not too low and stable interest rates. In our option, we have focused on the following: tax reductions which increase the efficiency of the economy and which have a direct impact in the short term on price increases and thereby on interest rate reductions that increase the efficiency of the economy and labour input, which have an impact on purchasing power and hence on future wage-fixing investments in research, road construction and ICT, which prepare the basis for efficiency improvements and productivity growth investments in the healthcare sector leading to increased patient treatment and thus lower social security benefits and more in labour law proposals and reforms that act more efficient and productivity-enhancing in the Norwegian economy over time by reducing tax and tax rates are laid the basis for increased tax receipts to the Norwegian State. Increased value creation is necessary because it forms the basis for the growth of the public sector without taking more of the cake into the private sector. The welfare state is to be financed, and then those who have to pay the bill at last have the opportunity to earn the money first. We need to stimulate people to work more. It must be profitable to work a few extra hours. We must stimulate more investment and even contribute through productive public investment. In total, such measures lead to the growth of gross domestic product, the increase in value added and the improvement in our well-being without inflation and higher interest rates. One can get the impression that the government believes that the economy is almost static, and that the growth capacity of the economy is written in stone. Of course, the claim of the party of progress is that growth is not a predetermined size, to which magnification and government have no influence, and to which we must adapt all other relationships. It is by laying the foundation for increased growth that we conduct a responsible fiscal policy. In our view, too much of the debate on the state budget is about the budgetary balance and whether the budget is neutral in terms of demand. Economic growth is promoted by policies that make working and policies that increase productivity profitable. Productivity will increase by facilitating increased investment in the Norwegian economy and using the available capital and labour in a more efficient way. The economic policy of the Progress Party is designed to stimulate higher economic growth in the mainland economy. Lower taxes stimulate private investment both in enterprises and in households. The Progress Party focuses on infrastructure and research, both through, for example, road construction and increased funding for research funds and equipment. This is combined with lower public expenditure overall, and thus also a lower underlying expenditure growth in the State budget. Long-term accountability in fiscal policy is primarily about increasing total value creation. Saving in the case of oil revenues has no value in itself. The point is that we provide the greatest possible value creation now and in the future. The basis for growth and value creation is driven by responsible investments in various forms of wealth yielding returns and by facilitating the framework conditions so as to optimise the use of resources. The Progress Party proposes to spend almost DKK 20 billion more on oil money next year, which is a sensible and balanced use, and which must be balanced against tax cuts of DKK 39 billion and reduced public expenditure of DKK 19 billion. The rule of action for the use of oil money was established in ours, and the majority’s intention was that the guidelines should be simple and serve as a guide to current budgetary work. The rule implies correcting, among other things: for the variation in tax income resulting from the activity of the economy, conversions of accounts and specific temporary income and expenditure. In the draft government budget, this has been demonstrated by the transfer of 36 billion DKK from the oil fund, which is then corrected for so-called short-term activity corrections, which are, in reality, tax receipts that are ‘overdue’ for some reason. In other words, it is not expected that income will remain at this level structurally, because we exceed what has been calculated is the so-called trend in tax receipts. It is very interesting to adjust for tax and tax payments to be exceptionally high, while at the same time the growth rate of GDP has been strongly adjusted. Then you subtract the real costs that you can't use later, and so you can subtract the deficit. In the draft budget, this amounts to DKK 19 billion, and it is the cancellation of debts resulting from the state acquisition of hospitals. This is interesting, because if, after such logic, you pay all national debts or take over and pay the local authorities' debts, toll companies' debts or the like with oil money, it would appear that you are not using more money structurally at all. Everyone understands that this is creative bookkeeping or finance ministry arithmetic. You can call it what you want – dear child has many names – but if you had landed without oil money, you would have to earn this money before you spent it, or you would have to borrow it. It is a little over the top to pretend that they are neither earned nor used. The party voted against the introduction of the rule of action because we believe that it leads to paralysis and not action. Unfortunately, we are still in the lead that the Storting should not distinguish between the use of money abroad and the use of money in Norway. Nor should we distinguish between money used for investment and money used for consumption. But it's strange and completely meaningless, because it prevents this house from doing reasonable things with our wealth. No one will be worthy of wasting the wealth that the nation has accumulated, but neither are we worthy of just building up an enormous wealth placed in foreign securities that no one properly knows what to use for in the future. Why is it logical to allow 3,300 workers to go on leave rather than provide more money for road construction, which means that we can reduce payments from the unemployment budget because the works come to work, and which leads to better and more roads, which in turn lead to increased value creation and improved competitiveness? Why is it logical that the defense's fighter pilots are at risk of losing their certificates due to lack of flight hours, because Norway cannot afford to buy fighter aircraft, or that the defense must use its resources to hire foreign helicopters because the Norwegians are so poor that they are on the ground? Why is there inflation in Norway if we spend money advertising Norway as a tourist destination, on German TV? Why is it inflation in Norway if we sendrevmaticians and other chroniclers on treatment trips to southern regions? Why is it inflation in Norway if we build hospitals for those of our elderly people who want to do so, in Spain? Why is it inflation in Norway if we buy study places for our students abroad? Why is it inflation in Norway if we buy new police cars from Germany? This we could do if it had been real will to do it, and it had not led to inflation. We note that the majority is more concerned with the budgetary balance than with solving practical problems with practical instruments. I take this up with me the proposal of the Progress Party to establish a framework for budgetary appropriations for 2002 and look forward to a long and interesting financial debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e219	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e224	As you know, the financial statement does not clarify the majority that may arise at the end of this two-day debate on the budget for the following year. Having heard the Chairman of the Committee on Finance's presentation of the internal life of negotiations that have taken place between the Progress Party and the Government Parties, it is my opinion that the likelihood of subsidiary support from the Progress Party has not increased. The installation appeared to underline the problems of the government. The main fiscal policies of the Progress Party underlined in the submission that the aim of the Party is to create greater well-being and that the instruments are to stimulate growth through lower taxes. In the financial position, it appears that the tax arrangements of the parties to the Government for them with income below NOK 200000 provide significantly more tax for those with low income than the tax arrangements of the Workers' Party for the same income group. My question to the representative Siv Jensen is: Does the representative Jensen agree that the tax regime of the Workers' Party is much better for those who have the lowest income? And further, can it still be that the Progress Party supports a tax scheme that provides more tax on the low incomes than what the Workers' Party's structure involves?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e231	The problem with the tax arrangements of both the Workers' Party and the Government's parties is that the reliefs given to them with low and medium incomes will be so marginal that the individual's wallet will hardly be noticed in a year. And I think Hill-Marta Solberg owes it to notice that it's the sum of the tax proposals for next year that will affect the economy of each of us. We have significant charges related to our usual consumption that will not be reduced with the Workers' Party's arrangements. From the point of view of the Progress Party, the sum of this will be decisive for what is a good and what is a less good set-up for taxes and levies for next year. The starting point of the Progress Party is that there is a need for significant reductions in both taxes and taxes so that more people can live on their own income. It's possible to produce it the way Hill-Marta Solberg does here, but in the schemes that are proposed, we're talking about a few hundred copies of each taxpayer in this country. And of course, it won't be noticed when on the other hand we get a lot of this eaten up again because of price increases in a number of other areas. I understand that the Workers' Party has a need to try to present its arrangement that is much better than the government's, but I think it is to draw this much longer than it is strictly proper to do. In our view, on the other hand, it would be a significantly better tax treatment if one had been willing to take a cap for those who had low incomes, and not least for all those who would not have peak tax reductions, which are therefore class 2 taxpayers. It's strange that when you've used a whole election campaign to talk about the need to reduce top taxes on taxpayers, you pick out a very important group that doesn't get any benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e238	The representative, Siv Jensen, asked the question in his statement: what has changed since the budget negotiations in the last enlargement period? Both in the autumn of 1997 and 1998, the Right Party and the Advance Party were sitting on the same side of the negotiating table, and the main change since then is the negotiation of a budget which initially provided for tax increases. This time, a budget is being negotiated that adds up to historical tax reliefs. It also means that the space for action is smaller. I'm glad that Siv Jensen – if she wasn't so clear on that in her post, she is clear on that in an article in Today's Business today – underlines that the Bondevik government's budget is «going in the right direction». That's a good starting point. I am also pleased to stress that although an agreement has not been reached, the cooperation parties and the Progress Party in the budgetary position agree in many areas. It concerns the proposal to eliminate the double taxation of dividends, to remove the seat charges, to reduce housing taxes, to reduce state ownership, to extend the VAT compensation scheme and to extend the ISF hospital scheme. One of the areas of disagreement is the use of oil money. We must bear in mind that the Progress Party disagrees with a broad majority of the Storting regarding the impact of increased use of oil revenues. It is also evident that the Progress Party has a different assessment from that of the leading economic environments in terms of the impact of a more expansive fiscal policy. I refer there to, among other things, a look up in today's business today, where two economists conclude that the arrangement of the Progress Party will lead to interest rises. My question to Siv Jensen is whether the Progress Party also disagrees with the guidelines adopted by the Bank of Norway regarding monetary policy, as it is stated in them that the effects of lower charges should initially not be taken into account in determining the level of interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e249	It is true that the Progress Party and the Right in the negotiations in the autumn of 1997 and 1998 were sitting on the same side of the table. Therefore, it was all possible reason to assume that when you had replaced the Center Party with the Right in the Government, it would be considerably easier for the Advance Party to participate in negotiations on a government budget. But it didn't turn out to be that simple. I have said many times in the past that it seemed much easier – with my eyes at least – to negotiate with the then central government about changes, in the understanding that all parties should put their mark on a budget line. I also record that Jan Tore Sanner is engaged in producing this as «historical» tax reductions. I just want to remind you that for the current year's budget we experienced historical tax increases. The sum of what is proposed this year will help to zero the increases we received last year. So the reality is that we have not come very much lower in terms of the overall tax burden imposed on the Norwegian people and companies in recent years. Then it's quite correct that the Bondevik government budget is heading in the right direction. I have no problem admitting that. But I also hope that the representative Sanner can agree that the question of the use of oil money was not a central part of the recent negotiations, simply because we respected that the government parties had a different opinion. It should also be possible to expect a greater willingness from the government parties to come up with cut-off proposals that could create the necessary room for other priorities on which the Progress Party was committed. With regard to the guidelines for the Bank of Norway, the Progress Party has been a driver for many years in order to have a free and independent central bank that is not governed by political ideas from time to time. That's the whole prerequisite for a credible monetary policy. But there's just as much of a responsibility to pursue a fiscal policy that over time makes it possible for us to bring interest down.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e260	The progress party has not been implemented for as much as they would like in the negotiations that were never completed. Most of us should be happy about that. The party of progress went to the elections with the slogan «FOR PEOPLE MOST» and profiled itself as a party for workers. The party's alternative state budget tells a different story. Perhaps the slogan should be converted to 'For the most people'. For what kind of grip is the Progress Party taking in its alternative state budget? Well, they're in favour of supporting the proposal to eliminate the dividend tax and get some relief from the option tax, despite the fact that we know that 90 pst. Of these reliefs, the 10 pst. richest in Norway for good. The Progress Party is in favour of massive cuts – SEK 3.4 billion – in the framework grant to municipalities, which we know will hit the basic welfare offer around the country. It's amazing that a party that wants to spend $19 billion more of the oil money can't find room to maintain the transfer to local schools and health services. The Progress Party shall call for the deregulation of the labour market to ‘restrict the power of organisations’. The forwarding party wants wages to be negotiated on an individual basis and the localisation of wages on an individual basis. This is how most people are to be thrown into competition with each other about who can offer the cheapest labour force. The richest in Norway will rejoice all the way to the bank if the Progress Party gets what they want. At the top of it all, there is one tax deduction that the Progress Party will not give, and it is tax deductions from the trade union quota for all the workers that are skilled. We know from other countries that the combination of low capital taxes, government cuts and weaker trade unions leads to increased economic differences. My question to Siv Jensen is: What kind of interest does the Progress Party believe that most people have of increased differences also in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e271	It is relatively costly to hear SV try to present it as if it is SV’s policy – as in cooperation with the Centre Party and the Workers’ Party – which in total will result in smaller differences in this country. Over the last 15 to 20 years, differences in Norway have increased, and at least it is not because the Progress Party has had power and influence over the development of the nation! On the contrary, there are parties that are closer to Audun Lysbakken and his party that have been responsible, thus contributing to the sharp deterioration of the differences between people. But then the question is, is it in itself a problem that we're different, or is it a bigger problem that we're not able to facilitate that those who really need public help get it? After all, it must be our biggest challenge, namely to provide welfare schemes that help those who fall outside for various reasons to receive adequate and sensible assistance from public authorities. But that must not mean that we should not be able to build private capital environments and private ownership environments in this country that will help raise the value creation further! I want to set an example: the fight that is going on in one of the largest companies in the country at the moment: Kværner. If that out there had not been owners of capital who were willing to invest in Norwegian business, we might not have been able to find solutions to the type of ownership problems you face here. It is likely that SV’s solution to this is to enter and acquire ownership in all parts of Norwegian business. But it won't be any more productive for that reason! Therefore, it is necessary to be able to pursue a tax policy that facilitates more business, a self-employed business that can stand on its own, while at the same time using fiscal policies to enable ordinary people to live on their own income.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e278	Low interest rates are good distribution policies, and the level of interest rates is one of the instruments that gives the strongest results for young people at the start-up stage, for municipalities and for business. For this reason, it is very important for the Cooperation Party that the budget for the following year should have a facility to provide the basis for a reduction in interest rates. I recognise that the Progress Party has a somewhat different view than us when it comes to economic policy and the impact of the different elements on economic development. I'll leave this, but I'll focus on the target at a low interest rate. The question is then: does the Progress Party share our view that a low interest rate is a good distribution policy, that a low interest rate is important for young people in the start-up phase, that a low interest rate is important for municipalities, and that a low interest rate is important for business? The representative, Siv Jensen, was partly in touch with some of these questions, but I still want to go a little more thoroughly to work. My final question is then: if the answer to these questions is yes, can the representative Jensen say a little about the importance for the Progress Party of pursuing an economic policy that can provide the basis for a low interest rate?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e286	I think all the parties in this house are of the same opinion as regards the importance of getting a low and stable level of interest rates in Norway. There's no disagreement about that. What we are discussing, on the other hand, is how we should do it. And then I want to remind the representative of Sørfonn that, from the government after government, in the state budget treatment after state budget treatment, the same argument has been used – from the same parties who have been responsible – namely that the budget must be just as tight, the chalk line must go right there, in order for us to get interest down. But what has happened? Have we received lower interest rates as a result of the arguments that Sørfonn and his party traps have led for many, many years? That's exactly what we didn't get. And then you have to start asking yourself the question: do we use the means that we should, in order to facilitate the difference in interest rates between Norway and the countries around us? We are of the opinion that what is responsible and sensible financial policy is to ensure that our economy can grow to form the basis for increasing the well-being of all the people of the nation. There is every reason to worry about the fact that, in estimates based on estimates — estimates from the Government and estimates from previous governments — growth in the Norwegian economy is adjusted for each year running. The question is how long to sit still and see that the growth rate in the Norwegian economy falls like a rock, before using other instruments that help reverse that trend and ensure that our economy grows in a healthy and sound way, so that we get value creation and manage to keep a low and stable inflation, which is the prerequisite for us to bring interest down.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e301	I would like to focus a little on the practical implications of the Advance Party's policy for many citizens. Schools, kindergartens and elderly care are important for the Center Party, for the Advance Party and for very many people. So many municipalities are in a very difficult economic situation. There's nothing new, it's been so long. Expectations are much greater than the one to which the economy extends, say those who govern the municipalities, and those who work in the municipalities. And many people say that the services are not good enough in relation to what they have been suggested, among other things. in the campaign. The conclusion of the Central Party is that there is a need for 3 billion kroner in addition to what the Government has proposed. We also want the debt to be extinguished by NOK 12 billion. Then we'll get better school, more and cheaper kindergartens, more liberal social assistance and better child protection. The progress game will cut instead of adding. They have a completely different recipe. There should be a saving of DKK 3.4 billion in the municipal sector in total. And we read in the setting that it thinks the Progress Party is easy to do as early as next year. There's no problem, because there's someone who's found out that 10 pst can be saved, maybe 20 pst, of what the municipalities use. In our municipality, the Progress Party has had two years to streamline and obtain cheap and good services. In almost no other municipalities in the country there is any party that has such opportunities, because in Us the Progress Party decides. But then I realize that it hasn't gone very well. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the municipality of Os will receive between 5 and 6 million. kr less next year. The Central Party wants them to get 8 to 10 million. kr more. The questions to the representative Jensen will then be: Has it been so well in the municipality of Us? Is there such an easy way to save money? And will there be better services of a policy with so much tighter frameworks?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e312	First, I will be allowed to correct an obvious misunderstanding. The arrangement of the Progress Party for municipalities for the next year does not contribute to lower revenues for the Municipality of Norway as a whole. On the contrary, the sum of all the proposals promoted by the Progress Party in its alternative approach will lead to a combined strengthening of the local economy by billions of dollars. I want to take the representative Lund by the word when he says that many people out in Municipality-Norway believe that the services from the municipalities are not good enough. Yeah, I totally agree with that. But then you have to start asking yourself the question: why aren't they? It is with today's system and current legislation and with today's governance that citizens around the whole country do not get the quality of the services they actually require. Maybe that's because we haven't shown any willingness to allow municipalities to outsource the services they're going to offer their citizens? In all other areas where we as consumers can experience competition, we choose away from what is not in line with the quality we want, and from to those who offer us what we want. Why in all days is the Central Party so opposed to that principle also applicable to municipal services? Why should it not be possible for the citizens of our country to compete on all necessary services, which contribute to an increase in the quality of services and to a reduction in the price? It should be a reasonable way to dispose of funds in the municipality of Norway. This does not mean giving up the management and control of services, but actually allowing others who are more competent to do so to produce services more fairly and better.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e319	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e322	The 2002 budget is the first budget to be adopted following the adoption of the new rules of action on the use of oil money and changes in monetary policy. Both the government of Stoltenberg and the government of Bondevik base this rule of action on economic policy. Using the expected real return of the Petroleum Fund, oil money can be phased into the Norwegian economy in a steady and prudent manner. It is a good thing that a majority on the Stortinge agree on the framework for fiscal policy. Only the Progress Party is completely outside of this reality. It therefore seems strange that the government parties have only gone to the Progress Party to negotiate the budget, i.e. to the party with which the Government is most in disagreement in fiscal policy. In the national budget, the government of Stoltenberg used the increased possibilities of this rule of action in two ways: to reduce taxes and taxes, in particular to reduce taxes on labour, and to strengthen efforts in important welfare areas. When the government of Bondevik presented its changes to the government budget, it turned out that new estimates of revenue and expenditure for the government provided additional space of about DKK 2 billion for next year. This can happen without the use of more oil money than the adopted rule of action suggests. The Labour Party, of course, accepts the new estimates from the Ministry of Finance and incorporates them into our budgetary position. Before the elections, the Labour Party presented our main priorities in the 2002 state budget and the following years: We wanted better hospitals, we wanted to continue the development of care for the elderly, and we wanted cheaper medicines for the elderly and disabled.We wanted better quality in school, upgrading school buildings and less self-payment in school.We wanted more kindergartens and lower parental pay.We wanted lower taxes on earnings, we wanted to raise the trade union deduction and still have full wages under sickness.We wanted to lower the electricity charge and secure the country's electricity supply.And finally, we wanted to call Norway's assistance to the world's poorest and our support to the UN. All these areas are followed up in the budget of the government of Stoltenberg for the following year and are considerably strengthened. The working party is very pleased that our efforts in kindergarten, health care, care for the elderly and the upgrading of school buildings are gaining ground. The year 2002 can thus be the year in which kindergarten expansion is once again speeding up, while the parental payment is greatly reduced. Without the government of Stoltenberg having invested in this way, this would hardly have been the result. We are similarly disappointed when the government of Bondevik II is now cutting off the labor party government's investment in better student funding, on free school books in high school and in research. The government’s budget for 2002 for Stoltenberg had a clear social profile, with a focus on children, on health and on improving the situation of the most disadvantaged. The increased space for action in the State budget allows for further strengthening efforts towards those who need it the most. The government, on the other hand, gives the most to those who already have the most. Of the increased space for action, the Workers' Party spends approximately DKK 1.4 billion on measures against the most difficult, of which over 800 million. kr is taxed at the lowest income. The rate of the minimum deduction is increased from 22 to 24 pst. It provides significant tax relief on employee income between 140000 and 175000 kroner. At the same time, the net tax-free income limit for pensions is increased. It provides significant tax havens for pension income. The Labour Party is also taking up a more social housing policy. The Stoltenberg government added up to an increase in the House Bank's framework by NOK 2 billion next year, which includes: could provide 4 000 more households with a start-up loan in relation to this year. Unfortunately, the Bondevik government did not follow up on this, which will particularly affect young people in the start-up phase. On the other hand, the working party will further increase the housing allowance for rental homes, and we will strengthen the housing support scheme. The government expects unemployment to increase to next year, but does not increase the allocation of labour market measures. The Labour Party believes that active efforts are needed to combat and prevent unemployment. That's why we're proposing to spend 45 million. kr more for labour market measures. When we know that work is the best way to prevent poverty, this is an important priority. We know that a lot of people are struggling with a lot of expenses for medicine and prosthetics. That was why the Stoltenberg government proposed free medicine on a blue prescription for the disabled and the elderly over 67 years old. In addition, the working party will spend 95 million. NOK to reduce the cap on the propensity of medicines from NOK 1500 to NOK 1350. It will apply to all. In total, this represents a significant reduction in the proportion of equity. Of course, there was a lot of excitement when the government of Bondevik II opposed our proposal for free medicine on a blue prescription to the elderly and disabled. I note with satisfaction that the government parties have gradually come to the conclusion that these are good proposals that should be adopted. The working party will also step up efforts to prevent drug problems. In addition, we support the proposal of well 70 million. For the treatment of drug users. After the Bondevik government presented its alternative budget with massive cuts in food and district aid, it has flowed in almost a piece of protest letters. I'll quote from one of them. It comes from the manager of Sandane Näringshage: ‘In its 2002 draft State budget, the government has cut SND and cut down municipal food funds. This represents a dramatic downturn for re-establishment and innovation for us in the districts. Newfounders who have good business ideas need both professional and financial help in a start-up phase before they are so up and going that they tend enough money to stand on their own. Does the government not see the obvious negative results of these cuts?' I can only join this question. In addition to this, when the Government proposes to cut agricultural transfers and remove the freight balancing system, this means severe deterioration for District Norway. The Government’s proposals for changes to the State budget therefore deserve to be stamped district and business hostile. Today, at the beginning of a two-day debate on the main issue of the Stortinget, which will be adopted in the autumn of next year's budget, it is therefore still unclear what budget the Stortinget will adopt tomorrow evening. The financial position that we are now debating does not clarify which budget is given to the majority. This is a very unusual and also a serious situation. The country has got a new civil minority government that after about 45 days is in its first major conflict with the Storing. The government has not taken any interest in finding out which majority solutions it could have been possible to achieve in the Storting. Since it was a fact that the negotiations with the Progress Party did not take place – we have previously received a thorough deepening of why it did not work – the Government chose to ignore the other opposition, and chooses, by all likelihood, to meet the Storting by force. It's a strange act of a minority government. In the course of the debate, as I see it, some crutch must be brought forward to the Government, so that it will come to its senses through the budgetary procedure. I'm assuming that birth-helper Hagen also assumes the role of assistant. In this way, a government budget has never been adopted before. The Prime Minister may use his most powerful weapon against Stortinget already in the first fall of the pottery period. However, the result will be that there is no majority responsible for the implementation of the next year's budget. A majority of the Government may be forced, but it is equally not a majority of the Government's policy. It must be allowed to say that if this is not an outstanding weakness, it is at least outstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e393	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e396	Listening to the representative Hill-Marta Solberg, it is a little difficult to get what she really wants to communicate in terms of the new government's budget, because in one breath it is said that the budget is largely a continuation of the social policy of the Workers' Party, an expansion of the welfare society, and in the next breath it sounds as if the budget that was presented a few weeks ago is one of the most dramatic things that have happened in recent Norwegian history. It is also very exciting to follow the Working Party by day. The lot is anything but predictable. It can best be compared with a moving goal, or to quote the Newspaper of November 20th: ‘The working party is nagging after the Bondevik II government’. And that's probably the impression that's left most after the Workers' Party had to go off after the voters gave the party passports at the election in the fall, that the Workers' Party is now nagging after the Bondevik government in several areas. This is true of the issue of combating poverty, which the Newspaper of the Day was particularly concerned with, in terms of fiscal policy, where last year the Workers' Party proposed historical tax increases, while this year they are trying to compete with the Co-operation Board in terms of tax relief, in terms of kindergarten policy, where the Right proposed increased appropriations last year, which the Workers' Party voted against, but which they are now in favour of, and this is the case in school policy, where the Right throughout all years have proposed more lessons – the Workers' Party was opposed, now they are in favour. My question to Hill-Marta Solberg is whether this is a result of a new political course that the Workers' Party will maintain, or whether the change in course we have now seen is more tactically justified in the political situation we are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e403	I understand that it was not so easy for the representative Sanner to deal with that they also got some praise, but when it is a fact that the government Bondevik II is continuing the Workers' Party's important bets on kindergarten, on health care and on care for the elderly, and so has not been able to release them in its adjusted budget, we are of course very pleased about it, because that means that we can get a better bet on kindergartens next year than we have had on very, very long, and that is in line with what the Workers' Party has agreed to. When the government does something positive, they'll get credit for it by the Workers' Party. I can assure you. And when they correspondingly do something we think is very unfortunate, they should also be told it. In this way, as we have said before, we must be a constructive opposition. When the representative Sanner asks if there is a new orientation from the Workers' Party, among others. Through our tax policy, I have to remind you that when the Stortinge dealt with the new rule of action for fiscal policy, the Workers' Party actually made it possible for parts of the increased space to be used to lighten taxes and taxes. Before the new government was planned at all, the government actually put forward a budget with significant tax reliefs, with gross reliefs of about DKK 7 billion, and where the budgetary impact for next year was DKK 3.5 billion in total tax reliefs. So this is not an attempt to run after the government that sits, this is the policy that the Workers' Party presented in its proposal for the national budget. Otherwise, I would like to say that when the representative Sanner chooses to refer to the daily paper calculations of how the Workers' Party supports those who have the most difficulty, I allow myself to say that that article in the Newspaper was not particularly up-to-date and informative, to say it carefully. In this area, too, the original budget of the Workers' Party has a number of important measures that we have further strengthened through the financial situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e415	The Progress Party is very concerned about stimulating growth in the economy by making it more attractive to work. That is why, like many others, we have been concerned with the so-called top tax, also called the overtime tax – a tax that was originally intended to hit them with high incomes, but which eventually affects almost one million workers in this country. The Stoltenberg government proposed to increase the ceiling on the payment of the top tax from NOK 289 000 to NOK 320000, which was a step in the right direction in my view. But it is with amazement I record that nothing was done for them as taxes in class 2, to a large extent children's families and lonely dependants. The question is: why this totally unfair discrimination?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e422	It is nice that the Progress Party also gives the Workers' Party credit for the fact that we have actually done important things in tax policy. It is also true that the Labour Party government proposed to adjust the ceiling of the top tax. It has never been intended that ordinary employee income should pay top taxes. It was therefore obvious that when the level of the top tax already reached 289 000 kroner in income, it hit in a different way from what was intended. That was also the reason why our draft budget contained a significant adjustment. Now we have experienced – perhaps especially during the election campaign – a certain auction, as it can often be. We also had that at this point, and the current government was at least sure of one thing, that it would go further than the Workers' Party when it applied to the top tax. Now we see from the budget line that came from the new government, that this is not the case, and that they have a top tax scheme that is completely identical to what the Workers' Party has proposed. This also applies to the issue of the top tax in relation to class 2. So it's a fact that there's a large majority in the United Kingdom who agree on what has been the Workers' Party's proposal on top tax for 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e429	Like many, I have registered that when the new government was able to bring up some extra money, the Workers' Party chose to use these on those sitting at the bottom of the table. We in SV are satisfied that the Workers' Party will meet us in this way. It can not really be seen as anything other than a strong self-criticism of what the Workers' Party has faced in the past. But it surprises me that it has to pay off. You kind of have to win the lottery before you care about the ones you should have cared about before. In any case, SV is pleased that the Workers' Party has now obviously switched to a different course and not only focuses on those who have the most, but also focuses on those who have the least. - But leave it. I have a challenge for the representative of Hill-Marta Solberg. The Minister of Finance has now said that he wants a further sale in DnB. This could mean that DnB, like the previous sale of the state's shares, is on foreign hands. I noticed that former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg took a self-criticism at the Workers' Party's position on the sale of the credit fund, and we were pleased about that. We were the only ones who at the time warned against this. In the past, Focus Bank has also been sold out. It was in vain that Storebrand was sold out, and now the government has opened up so that also Mutual NOR could become a share company, and then there is a danger that another bank will go out. At the top – in a few years we may be left with just Haltdalen Sparebank or GS Bank, former Gjerpen and Solum Sparebank. Otherwise, all other central financial institutions in Norway are controlled from abroad. For a civilised nation, this is very unfortunate, and I doubt that there is a single other country in Europe that would allow such an important part of what is a civilised society, namely the banking and credit system, to be governed mainly from abroad. My challenge to the representative Hill-Marta Solberg is this: today we have put forward a proposal asking for a break of thought, that the department stop the sale of DnB pending a big message, in order to ensure that at least we have some national ownership of the banking and credit services for the benefit of consumers and Norwegian business. I hope Hill-Marta Solberg can meet this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e439	I must first be allowed to go straight with the representative of Djupedal when he describes the Labour Party's efforts for those who, as he says, «are sitting at the bottom of the table». It is a fact that the budget presented by the Labour Party Government in October contained a significant focus on those who have little. It sums up about NOK 3 billion, a targeted use of money to ease the situation for people who have difficulties, both to help people get back to work, to give people more reasonable medicine and in a number of areas to ease the situation for those who have the least. So the characteristic that the representative Djupedal is trying to give of the Labour Party's policy in this area is not right. It's directly misleading. The working party has cared, and it was therefore natural for us, when there was an increased room for using additional resources next year, that we arranged it the same way. We followed up a social profile that was in the budget of the government of Stoltenberg. It is a policy which the Workers' Party stands by and which we will also pursue. So to the proposal of SV to which the representative Djupedal refers, related to the Minister of Finance's signals on sales in DnB. There have been many and large, important rounds in the Storting in recent years related to the state's involvement in the financial industry, and this suggests that we are not completely finished with those discussions either, at least if we are to understand the Minister of Finance's signals correctly. However, as regards the volume of sales in DnB, Stortinget has given its powers by describing the extent to which this sale should take place. As the Labour Party sees it, if this policy is to be changed, the new government must come to the Storting and ask for new and extended powers, and then the Labour Party must reaffirm its policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e446	The Labour Party’s draft budget was given a much better social profile after the Workers’ Party came into opposition. I understand that the working party is a little tired of explaining this, and I should therefore not rip up the reasons for this. But I have a couple of questions in some other areas. Firstly, in the budget agreement between the centre party and the Labour Party for the current year, it was an agreement to wind up the investment levy from 1 April next year. In the draft budget of the Workers' Party Government for 2002, the winding-up was suspended until 1 October. In the process of the Committee, the Labour Party has made a number of changes to the budget, but the point of the investment levy has not been changed. The question is, why? The second question relates to the fact that the Stortinget has provided strong leadership in order for business in the 14 municipalities that received an increase in the employer’s fee from 1 January 2000 to receive full compensation for the additional costs resulting from this and the evaluation of the zoning in 2003. Complete compensation means 154 million. kr per. years. We could read from the Labour Party Government's draft budget that the compensation so far granted was sufficient and that no new concessions were necessary. Of course, this weight has strong reactions in the 14 municipalities in question. Through the committee's examination of the budget, the Labour Party has committed 20 million. kr which is deliberately intended for this purpose. So the need is 154 million. kr. I don't fully understand this. The question then is: Is it so to understand that the Labour Party, contrary to the resignation of the Workers' Party government, believes that there are still 12-13 pst. that the industry in these municipalities has not been compensated?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e457	I must say that I sat with great wonder and listened to the reply from the replicator, that the Workers' Party has improved in opposition. Yes, the Workers' Party could have done as the Government did when there were extra opportunities in the Norwegian economy. What did the Government and the representative Sørfonn's party do? Well, they spent SEK 1.5 billion giving tax credits to those who have the most. The working party spent SEK 1.5 billion giving more to those who have the least. That's the difference. We were facing exactly the same election, but the Labour Party did not choose to use the increased opportunities to prioritise those who already have the most, as the representative of Sørfonn's party has done. Then I have to say, when asked about the compensation scheme for the municipalities: Anyone who heard this reply must believe that the representative of Sørfonn's party has settled this. They don't have that at all. They even had the possibility from the government offices, but they haven't put in one penny to follow up that scheme. Then the Workers' Party gets the question of why we're just adding 20 million. kr. Then my greeting to those municipalities is that it must be better with the Labour Party's 20 million. kr than the representative Sørföns 0 kr. So this I believe is a line that provides the basis for creating confusion, which I hope now I have managed to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e464	The central government took the initiative to start work on the relocation of state jobs from Oslo. We have a strong disparity in the geographical distribution of government jobs, and a job was started that was completed just before the central government left in March 2000. A good part of that work was commendably followed up by the Workers' Party, who, in his reign under the direction of Jens Stoltenberg, actually criticized the centre for not being offensive enough, and said that the Workers' Party had done more with regard to relocation than the central government was able to accomplish. In fact, it was the follow-up of matters that were largely initiated by the central government, but left it in this round. It was commendable that the Workers' Party followed it up. It is therefore all the more reason to wonder that the Workers' Party is now not involved in a proposal from the Centre Party and the Coastal Party to ask the Government to present a case to the Stortinget for the relocation of state jobs from Oslo. This is no simple matter, let it be absolutely clear. For the Central Party too, it is difficult to take a greater review of the relocation of state jobs. It affects individuals. It concerns structures built over a long period of time. However, it is absolutely necessary to carry out such work in order to achieve a better geographical distribution, including of government jobs. It is best done in our opinion through a comprehensive plan that can be adopted in the Storting, and where you know what you have to deal with over a long period of time, so that you can get a good structure on such a relocation of state jobs. My question to Solberg's representative is: why has the Workers' Party not followed or wanted to participate in such a proposal from the Centre Party and the Coastal Party after the work done by the government of Stoltenberg?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e471	Let me go back to my previous reply for a few seconds. In my amazement at Sørfonn's question, I actually forgot to answer it about the investment fee, which was actually the point where the current government parties most strongly attacked the Workers' Party when the budget was presented. So you had new opportunities within the framework, but you chose to do nothing! Also then there is a mystery how it shot again can be directed at the Workers' Party. So to the last line, from the representative of Enoxen, on the relocation of state jobs. Yes, I can assure you that the Workers' Party will continue the policy we pursued in the government to assess relocation and not least that all new start-ups will be assessed outside the capital area if possible. There are many good examples of this being done by the Workers' Party. We have agreed that the training centre of the Aviation Agency should be added to Teldensund. We've also started a process that hopefully also leads to parts of the Treasury being moved out of Oslo, maybe to Narvik even. That's positive for us northerners, as we see it. We're going to follow this very actively. Nevertheless, we do not agree with the approach of the Centre Party that a single single decision can be made. We believe that it must be followed continuously, assessed on a case-by-case basis, institution-institution, department-in-office. I can assure the representative, Mr Enoksen, that in all these matters I believe that the Workers' Party and the Centre will agree very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e478	The President will ask whether the representative, Mr Solberg, would like to make proposals in connection with his statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e481	I'd love to. I address all the proposals that the Workers' Party is promoting alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e486	The representative of Solberg has taken up the suggestions she referred to. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e491	Impatience is a good sign. In budgetary work, there have been many contributions and proposals for increased appropriations for good purposes, and proposals for taxes and charges that should be further reduced. Many have also referred to the Sem Declaration, which has ambitions beyond what has been possible in this first budget. The budget represents a new political direction. After years of social democratic governance, society faces a number of fundamental challenges. The 2002 budget is only a first step, but a very important step to equip society to meet the new era: Lower taxes and taxes will increase individual freedom of choice and better framework conditions for business. State ownership must be reduced while being professionalised.The public sector needs to be modernised to provide us with better service and welfare. The budget setting shows that there is disagreement about the priorities. Nevertheless, there is a strong consensus on the new guidelines established for the use of oil revenues. If we use more oil revenue than this guideline suggests, the potential for a fall in interest rates is reduced. The parties to the cooperation in budgetary work have placed a decisive emphasis on the establishment of a sound basis for the reduction of interest rates. Lower interest rates are good distribution policies, important for business and value creation, and will mean a lot to Kommune-Norway. A family with 1 million. Indebtedness will save NOK 10000 before tax if the interest rate falls by one per cent. It'll mean a lot to a family in the start-up phase. For Kommune-Norge, such an interest rate decrease could amount to about 700 million. kr. It is in this perspective that the firmness of the cooperation parties must be seen in the question of the use of oil money. If a more expansive fiscal policy is pursued, it could strengthen the crown further. It could affect competitive business. The opposition is attacking the budget from different sides. In the economic environment, however, the judgment is quite unequivocally positive. Vice-Chancellor Knut Anton Mork said to Reuters on 9 November: «The government has done a good job», while Chief Vice-Chancellor Tormod Andreassen said to TDN Finanz that: «The government's proposal for a State budget is an improvement in relation to the proposal from Stoltenberg.» For 2001, the Workers' Party tightened up towards enterprises and private households through historically high tax incentives. For 2002, the cooperative parties will implement the main tax reliefs in recent times. In 2002, everyone receives a lower tax. On average, everyone receives a tax relief of NOK 1800. It is gratifying that the Workers' Party is now moving towards the Right and opening up for something lower tax. But it's not going to pass that the Workers' Party has been acting like a moving target in the last year. It remains to be seen whether the management of the Workers' Party has now shifted the course towards the Right on a more lasting basis, or whether the course change is more tactically justified in the current situation. On the other hand, the Labour Party's draft budget, as it emerges from the financial position, means a higher level of taxation and taxation. For incomes up to DKK 100000, the arrangements of the Workers' Party are now as good as those of the Cooperation Parties, while all with income above this must pay more of their wages and salaries in accordance with the arrangements of the Workers' Party. Throughout the election campaign, but also after the government change, the Labour Party has argued that it is not possible to reduce taxes and taxes while strengthening key welfare tasks. The co-operation administration reduces taxes and taxes by nearly 12 billion kroner while spending more on health, more on school and more on kindergartens. The government has taken a first and very important step in the fight against poverty in Norway: Social assistance rates are being adjusted.The cash support is excluded from the calculation of social assistance.The grant of light and heat in the housing support scheme is being adjusted. Several measures are being implemented for drug users. The Labour Party's year-long struggle against Difference Norway has helped to create poor Norway. It has been more important to hold someone back than to make sure that everyone is lifted up. The working party has been more concerned with directing the lives of the many who can manage themselves than helping those who really need it. We do not doubt the social will of the Workers' Party, but they have clearly shown that they have not had the ability to target their actions. I am pleased that the Workers' Party is now signing up for the discussion. But it is probably more than the leading writer in the Newspaper who has the impression that “... the Workers' Party is coming naggingly after the Bondevik II government.” After the Workers' Party has tried to turn Norway into a different tax policy country, there is a need for a new course in business policy. The 2002 draft budget of the Co-operation Board shows that we have already started the change in course: it is put up for a policy to strengthen the competitiveness of industry in order to improve the conditions of knowledge-based business to promote Norwegian private ownership In the 2001 budget, the Workers' Party introduced double taxation of dividends. In the 2002 budget, the Co-operation Board proposes to abolish double taxation. This means strengthening the framework conditions for Norwegian private ownership, while at the same time contributing to the investment of business profits in the industrial projects that provide society with the greatest possible return. The competitiveness of Norwegian business is closely linked to the country’s R & D activity, and in particular to how R & D is linked to business. The Labour Party has committed itself to a very low effective use of its resources by pursuing a policy of grants rather than an innovation policy. The best way to exploit R & D is that enterprises themselves launch projects for which they can later see commercial use, not that government agencies on behalf of business decide what knowledge is needed. We are therefore replacing the grant policy with a strong motivation for enterprises, an extended R & D tax deduction scheme. Instead of building up grant schemes to help companies over the State created the obstacles, the cooperation parties will build up barriers to creative and viable businesses. The industrial policy of the Workers' Party has led to the fact that, in the absence of a well-functioning capital market, the State has had to act as a risk-bearing investor. With the framework conditions proposed by the cooperation parties for Norwegian business, the conditions are better suited to ensure that the private capital market will have more incentives to invest capital in Norwegian business. The role of SND in certain programmes can therefore be adjusted. Private investors are better at assessing the profitability of different investments than what we politicians are through our allocations to SND. For some enterprises in District Norway, access to the private capital market may be more difficult than for enterprises in central districts. We therefore believe that SND’s activities in general should be targeted at areas where the market and private services do not function properly. SND should have a central role for these enterprises in their Idea, Development and Commercialisation phase. We want SND to be a support for businesses in the districts, not one of Norway's largest venture capitalists. The state ownership in Norway is very extensive. While the Workers' Party is now pushing the brake, the Cooperation Government is taking new initiatives. Now the ownership of the country is to be reduced, and private ownership is to be strengthened. It shall be cleaned up in the roles of the State and the ownership shall be professionalised. The future ownership of the State must be limited to companies of an administrative nature and companies in which ownership has a clear political basis. I am pleased that there is a majority in the financial position that expresses a common position on the need to reduce state ownership. A minority government depends on cooperating with other parties to get a majority. When examining the 2002 budget, it was quite natural to seek cooperation with the Progress Party. The working party has lost the option. The cooperation parties announced a new course and the Progress Party expressed their preference for a new government. Unfortunately, the negotiations with the Progress Party showed that the distance was too large for us to agree on an agreement. I believe that the cooperation parties went far in the negotiations. We met the Progress Party on issues of probabilities, blueprints, reimbursement arrangements for seafarers, measures against crime, lower taxes for those who serve at least, the VAT compensation scheme and the ISF scheme. We opened up structural changes in order to find a solution for the defence and to open binding agreements between the cooperation parties and the Progress Party in demarcated areas. It is also worth stressing that the space for action is smaller when the starting point is a budget with relatively large tax reliefs. However, I am pleased that the main spokesperson of the Progress Party in this debate and also in today's business today has underlined that the budget is a step in the right direction. There is no doubt that there would be an advantage to a budget agreement. However, after the budget breach, the Cooperation Parties made some adjustments to the Government's draft budget to meet the Progress Party. I would like to express the hope that the Government's budget, with the adjustments made, can be secured by a majority at tomorrow's vote. And with this, I'm taking up the treatment settings today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e610	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e614	It was interesting to hear the representative, Sanner, now that he belongs to the government fraction. The main divisions of economic policy, in my opinion, go between the current government and the Workers' Party on two essential points. The sitting government sets itself on one track only. It's tax relief to one part of business and to a special group. That's good right-wing policy, and here it's clear that the right-hand hand is on the wheel. The Labour Party is setting out on a different track: better framework conditions and less tax on labour, combined with an active industrial policy. How does Jan Tore Sanner manage to present the SND as a unique amount after this budget proposal, where the SND is almost erased? Does not Jan Tore Sanner also see the main challenge he was facing in the economy – this two-way division that we see, how high unemployment is and the need for conversion is high in the competitive industry? Because then we need an instrument that can be involved and establish innovation and develop this industry. So Jan Tore Sanner says that we've taken a first step, we have to meet the new time. Yes, is it meeting the new time with the big, dramatic cuts in the SND transfers? Is it meeting the new time with the centralisation policy to which it is put? Is that what we're seeing now, the new course of the Bondevik II government? And what will be the outcome for the districts? This is clearly an industrial policy for further centralisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e625	I'm a little in doubt whether it's the short-term memory that fails in the Workers' Party, or whether it's the way the party has learned. One year ago, when the Workers' Party promoted its proposal for a State budget, it was historically high tax incentives, and it hit industry in particular. During the budgetary negotiations at that time, the centre parties were able to do something better. However, it is quite clear that the 2001 Labour Party budget was a significant boost for business and has thus created problems for many enterprises in the district of Norway as well. Cooperation management is committed to improving the overall framework conditions for business. In this budget, priority has been given to removing the fare. Through the election campaign we've been through, there were not a few companies in District Norway that gave us a very clear message that the airline seat fee had to be removed because it hit companies in District Norway. We have given priority to eliminating the double taxation of dividends, because double taxation of dividends discriminates against companies that address the Norwegian capital market, versus enterprises that relate to the international capital market. The elimination of double taxation of dividends is a good business policy, and we have been more concerned with building up the obstacles to viable businesses, building down the barriers to creativity, rather than giving more direct support. But we believe that our proposal also means that SND will play an important role in the future, not least for businesses in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e636	The right went to the elections with promises of massive tax cuts. We in the Progress Party actually felt it for a period as if the Right had stolen our clothes while we were bathing. For the Progress Party, it is important to do something about both taxes and taxes. In fact, in many cases the social impact of taxes is lower than that of taxes. The question is then: How does it relate to the Right's tax profile in the election campaign when the Government is now actually proposing an increase in not less than 15 different charges?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e643	It is true, as Per Erik Monsen stresses in his reply, that some charges will be increased to next year, but it must be seen in the light of the fact that the Co-operation Government is presenting a draft budget that overall reduces taxes and taxes by nearly NOK 12 billion. Historically, it's a lot. In retrospect, the 1992 tax settlement has been seen as a settlement that resulted in historical tax reliefs. The 2002 budget provides greater relief. Within a few weeks, the cooperation parties were able to re-priorities in the budget. I am willing to admit that it was more important to eliminate double taxation of dividends, to remove the seat charge and reduce the house tax, than to reverse the tightening of company car owners. It was a priority that was made on the part of the cooperation parties. It was a priority to remove and simplify taxes and taxes that most affected people and that will have an impact on business. But when that is said, I would also like to stress that in tax policy, although the Progress Party wants to go considerably beyond the cooperation parties, there are some areas of agreement. With regard to the double taxation of dividends, in the case of the fare on seats, in the case of housing taxes, and also a number of other taxes and charges that we want to reduce, the cooperation parties and the Progress Party have agreed, even though the Progress Party wants to go further – and we have at least made a step further.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e650	I must begin by congratulating Right. If you look at the financial position of the government parties, and look at what has been presented by the Bondevik government, it's not possible to see anything but traditional, normal Right Policy. I cannot see that the Christian People's Party has put its stamp on this at all. In this way, it is only to congratulate the Right that the Right has now succeeded in gaining command of this government's policy, and reducing the other parties in the Government to purely supporting parties for the Right. Nevertheless, it is not enough to have a majority in the Stortinget. It is quite strange to look at the exercise that is now taking place and has taken place in the Financial Committee, in this balancing process, where the Progress Party is constantly providing a little support and a little humility, a little support and a little humility. It can't really be easy to try to get this done, but it seems like you're going to swing on in some way through this debate as well. The representative Sanner stressed that the Right had done so much against poverty in its budget. What I notice is that when you talk about poverty, you have to have a nice view that is 100 pst. ensure that all measures taken are 100 pst. If there's the slightest doubt that this isn't measured on the millimeter, and that someone finds out that this scheme isn't 100 pst. well, you have to replace it with another scheme or remove the scheme. But in the case of taxes on dividends on shares, you take away NOK 1.5 billion without a single lead. It is said elegantly that this leads to more investment in Norwegian business. This means that Norway, as one of two OECD countries, does not have a tax on dividends. So for the richest ones, the richest ones, you give away $1.50 billion. The 85 richest in Norway get 1.7 million. kr each, while 3.5 million Norwegians don't get a single ear of this. You don't want to use a nice face here. Here you have to say, ioda, this money is probably going back to business in the form of investments. But that's not what happens. We know that the private consumption among this group of Norwegian people is enormous compared to the usual. My question to Mr Sanner's representative is: why don't you use a nice look at this, while all the poorest people have to be looked at all the way down to the millimeter?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e661	It's an interesting tension in the lines. In the previous line, which was made by a representative from the Progress Party, I was told that it was quite puzzling things that were in the financial position, that the Right earlier had stolen the Progress Party's clothes, and that they did not recognize what was now in the cooperative position. While now, on the SV side, it's the Right that's being congratulated, and it's the Right that's been passed. I guess I think the truth is somewhere in the middle. A rapid review will identify a strong commitment to assistance, the environment, non-governmental organisations and, in particular, poverty reduction, in which the Prime Minister, in particular, has had a high level of involvement in the draft budget. So to the issue of double taxation versus poverty reduction, where there is concern for better action. It is not right that measures should be taken at 100 pst. But I think you have to admit, and who now obviously the Labour Party also recognizes that the measures that have been taken have not taken well enough. My charge against social democracy is that one has been more concerned with distributing from 80 pst. of the population to 80 pst. by the population, and being more concerned with millimeters of justice among those sitting in the middle of the tree than having a policy to combat poverty — a policy to raise everyone. That's the ideological difference. In the case of dividends on shares, that's the double taxation we're against. We're against it being more unprofitable to invest in business than to put the money in the bank. We are committed to removing this double taxation because it is a good business policy and because it will help more people invest in shares. It will help to eliminate the injustice between enterprises that address the Norwegian versus the foreign market. I think it will also benefit most people because we will be able to have a more viable business life.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e670	In the first part of the campaign it seemed to remove the terrible top tax to be a very good thing for the Right. But then there was a little more talk about what that top tax was for something, who paid, how few it was, and how crooked it was geographically and between men and women. Then it got quiet, there wasn't much more talk about the top tax after that. But now it's shown up. And just to give an example, in my municipality, there's 11 pst. of the tax payers who make more than 300000 kroner. In Bærum there are three times as many. In Gratetangen, it's 7 pst. which serves more than 300000 kroner. In the South Throne Team, it's 8 pst. who pay the top tax, in Akershus 16,5 pst., and women serve as known 60 pst. of what men do. But then the proposal to cut top taxes appears in the Foss budget, and they also include removing taxes on dividends. I think it's surprising that the entire government wants it. Statistics say that in 1999 there were 14 pst. of all over 17 years, a general income of more than 300000 kroner, and of the taxes of persons of 5 billion DKK now granted by annual effect, that group of 14 pst. Four of those billions. That's 65 pst. which has an income of less than NOK 150000. They get no tax gain, as I can see. So it goes $1 billion in tax gain to them with income between 150,000 and 200,000. That's 16 pst. of the peak tax paid by women, which is 18 pst. of the dividend paid to women. 42 pst. of the dividend goes to Oslo and Akershus, 5 pst. to the four northernmost counties. Sanner spoke in his post about the first year of the new era. Are women and districts going to lose the same amount in the next few years of the new time?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e679	Now there were many percentages in two minutes. But if I'm going to answer the question of whether women and districts should lose, then the answer is no. In my opinion, no one is losing money on reducing taxes and taxes. No one is losing weight in improving the framework conditions for business – rather on the contrary. I know that Morten Lund was also on the move in the election campaign, and I assume that he also heard the demand from District Norway, and not least from the companies in District Norway, that we should remove the flight seat fee. Now let's get rid of it. I assume that Morten Lund also heard all the companies, including in District Norway, asking for the double taxation of dividends to be removed. Now let's get rid of it. It benefits business, and it benefits the population. Otherwise, I stumble a little when it is claimed that there are so few who pay top taxes. The problem with the top tax as it has been until now is that it also affects an ordinary industrial worker, nurses, teachers. In other words, the peak tax point has become so low that it is no longer the so-called rich ones that are taxed extra much, but there are people with very average incomes. So we've taken the first step to raise the so-called peak rate entry point. In the case of the Government's total tax relief, it is not correct that only high incomes benefit from it. In fact, the lowest income receives a higher percentage of tax relief income than the more moderate income. On average, it's $1,800. It is a good tax relief for all income groups, and I think that is a good first step in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e690	The representative, Sanner, says that the Bondevik II government means a new course in business policy. Yes, the Bondevik I government proposed to strengthen municipal nutrition funds. The Bondevik II Government proposes to remove it. The Bondevik I Government proposed a new major allocation for regional coordination. The Bondevik II Government proposes to remove it. The Bondevik I government fought for de-sampling in the districts. The Bondevik II Government proposes to remove it. The Bondevik I Government proposed significant water quality allocations for industry in the districts. The Bondevik II government is proposing to remove them. The Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Fisheries all, absolutely all appropriations for the development programme of the State Food and Rural Development Fund. I have noticed that one of Norway's most famous business leaders, also a well-known Right-Man, group leader Jens Petter Ekorenes, in the Sunnmørsposten on November 13th, says: ‘The government’s proposal to cut SND’s appropriations sharply is a short and well-off disaster.’ He goes on to say: ‘Cutting SND in the way it is now based is nothing less than a foundation for the development of economic activity in the districts. I fear that this is just the beginning of a rage of SND as a driving force in the economic development of rural areas.’ This is undoubtedly a new course of business and district policy. But isn't the biggest change in nutrition and district policy that the Christian People's Party no longer believes what the Christian People's Party has meant, but what the Right has meant?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e710	This seemed more like a line to the Christian People's Party than a line to me. But when the question is first asked, I believe that the budget that has been presented and which is now slightly adjusted by the decision of the Financial Committee is a good budget, reflecting the three parties that constitute the Cooperation Government. In the past, I was concerned with both aid policy, environmental policy, the involvement of voluntary organisations and the fight against poverty. In addition, there is a good industrial policy that the entire government is behind. We are committed to moving from a grant policy to an innovation policy. This is why we also want to focus on general and good, improved framework conditions. I understand that there are some people who protest when some grants go down, but if you look at what the Government's budget collectively means to business, there can be no doubt that there are improved framework conditions at the bottom. The elimination of double taxation, the removal of seat charges and the reduction of personal tax are policies for innovation and growth in business. And I'm quite convinced that Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen remembers the reactions that came from business, especially in District Norway, on the workers' party government budget. It could have been tempting to ask back whether it is such that the Workers' Party has now learned, and therefore has changed its policy more towards the Right, or whether it is the short-term memory that fails, and that the protests that came from business, not least from the districts of the previous period, have already been forgotten.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e721	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e725	If you look at Norwegian policy from the outside, it must be quite strange. The world's richest country, with greater opportunities than perhaps any other country, is unable to give priority to what most people would think is most important. So we are unable to use our freedom of action to think in the long term and prepare the basis for an even better Norway, a Norway that is more solid and more environmentally friendly, and, not least, to facilitate a business that is not one-sided raw material-based. Because this is our big challenge: using the resources given to the country in a better and more long-term way. That's SV's starting point in our alternative budget. Our objective is a better welfare state, which meets the needs and challenges of the population to a greater extent. That means we have to make some choices. And we make these choices. We don't choose tax relief for those who have the most. We don't choose lower power prices. We do not choose cash support. We do not choose large defence investments. We don't choose privatisation. We do not choose to sell state property. We simply choose what we promised our voters in the election campaign: to bet on the future, on children and young people, on school, on justice and on the environment. These are our priorities. In our alternative budget, we can do this by actually spending a little less money than the government parties and the Workers' Party do. And we're just doing it to show that it's possible to choose differently, show that it's possible to create a more solid Norway within the same economic framework. We choose to use the same economic framework, partly to show that this is important, and show that it is a priority, but we also do it because in a very exciting international economy, combined with high capacity utilisation in Norwegian industry, it is important to use fiscal policy to tighten up where possible, rather than interest-rate weapons, which are a very unsocial weapon. The Norwegian interest rate is too high. SV's goal is to bring it down. That is why it is important to use fiscal policy, i.e. the priorities of the Storting Group, to ensure more solidarity – if necessary – and not use monetary policy, which is, of course, the option. What has happened over the last few years is something that can be characterised as a monetary policy coup, later also institutionalised by the Stortinget, by the fact that the Central Bank Governor has entrusted himself with an authority he has not previously had, and by the fact that the Storting has gradually given his consent to it. If the central bank manager and his board disagree with the priorities of the budget, or disagree with the wage settlement, the framework agreed by the social partners, he has the opportunity on his own initiative to say that interest is to be raised. SV believes that fiscal policy and monetary policy must move in the same direction and that this responsibility should have been enshrined in the Ministry of Finance. If you are to tighten up, or if you are to break up, it is the democratically elected representatives in the Grand Duchy who are to decide, and not an interest-rate weapon, which is unsocial, determined by the Board of Governors of the Bank of Norway. We disagreed with the resolution that was taken at the time, and we show in our alternative budget how it is possible to stay within the same balance that is said to be the most responsible, while giving priority to what is most important, through these many tables and columns. Let me refer to four main steps that SV does in our alternative budget. One of the most important things is getting more hands to work. One of Norway's biggest challenges is that we have many available hands, while at the same time having high capacity utilisation in industry. The welfare state needs these free hands. All those who are waiting for care, and all those who want childcare, will need them, because this will require more employees. SV proposed in the revised national budget and was given a majority in order for the government to be required to present a plan for how we could get more free hands at work. Strangely enough, this has not been followed up by the Government. How to make better use of your resources should be a cross-political challenge for all parties on the Stortinget. We have proposed a number of measures. Let me just mention some of them, to show you what we have of labour reserves already today. We propose to liquidate the cash support in combination with increased babysitting. We suggest that you be able to pay wages and not least interview those who are disqualified. – We have up to 300,000 people who are disqualified. Many of these could have worked a little if it's not almost an automatic way to get dissatisfaction when you get to the doctor. – It is possible to provide wage subsidies, in order to encourage employers to take in people who have been disadvantaged. We want all unemployed people to have a job, education or job opportunity within four weeks. We want lower taxes for those who have low-paid jobs. We want a reduction over time of duty. Not least, we want to stimulate older people to continue their efforts in the workplace. We also want an embellishment of the stoppage of immigration, to the extent necessary. Some of these measures are possible in the short term; others will be possible in the longer term. The crucial thing is that our society both reduces the pressure on the economy, and – not least – solves the many, many tasks that our welfare state consists of, and where we need hands that can do the job. This is a long-term challenge that SV draws up in its alternative budget. Another challenge we're raising is that we want to put an end to the sale of state shares in DnB, and withdraw this mandate that the Government has requested. We believe that the whole Storting should be more concerned with how we make sure we have a national ownership. It is important in industry, and it is important in banking and financial institutions. I notice that for purely ideological reasons, the Right now wants to go further in a sale of the state's shares, not because the State needs the money, not because this is necessarily a strong wish from the companies, but it is precisely for ideological reasons that it wants to realise these shares. From the standpoint of the state, this is very unwise. Firstly, such a large sale of shares would lead to a very poor price, a spot price. That means we're giving away the state's money. However, what may be more serious over time is that Norway is reduced to a purely branch country. Over the last few years, we have seen that the head offices of large, important institutions are being moved out, and decisions of great importance to our country are being taken in other countries. We believe that this challenge, how to prevent Norway from becoming a purely branch country with a pure commodity-based economy where important decisions are made abroad, is one of the biggest challenges facing our country. And our wish is not necessarily that the state should own as much as possible – not at all. But it has turned out that those who have private capital and private ownership are unfortunately unable to stand up as soon as they get a good offer, and then they sell out. And that means we want the long-term capitalist. If it can't be private, the state must be, at least until you make sure that it doesn't just graze abroad. The third major challenge we're raising is that we want to cut oil investments. And we do that for several reasons. We're doing it for ecological reasons, but we're also doing it for economic reasons. The economic reasons are partly this: the oil industry as such is taking such a large part of the total investment mass in Norway that other profitable investments in mainland Norway must suffer. We have seen very clear examples of this, because oil investments take a large part of the total investment mass in Norway. If we want a viable business, if we want a green knowledge industry, capital – private capital – must be released to invest in these areas. In addition, it makes us extremely vulnerable when you base an economy on so much of one commodity and the price of one commodity and the price of dollars. It makes the nation very vulnerable to fluctuations both in terms of interest rate unforeseeability and inflation unforeseeable. From an ecological point of view, it is quite obvious that investment is now being turned against what is less polluting and more forward-looking than the grey oil economy. That means that in our alternative budget, we want to delineate oil investments so as to free up capital to use in other areas of the economy. The fourth point we focus on in our alternative budget is to strengthen the community economy, and the municipalities are the main welfare production arena in Norway. That's where the kindergarten places exist, that's where the schools exist, that's where the hospitals exist, that's where the public transport operates. And why this rich country is unable to prioritise better service production in the municipal sector is very difficult for me to understand. Within the same framework as the Government, we are able to spend NOK 7.5 billion more on welfare production in Norwegian municipalities. After all, this government has seen it as a goal that the growth of the public economy should always be below the growth of gross domestic product. So one chooses a dogmatic formula as to why one should not have a larger growth in the local economy, instead of looking at what tasks are actually required – instead of taking the dogmatic economic model. For SV, this is important. It's important that we have a welfare state that works. It means better and cheaper services, and that means that all of the promises we made in the campaign, we've followed up. But we record to our great disappointment that all the others who also talked about community economics, about schools, about kindergartens, have not followed this up. We have called our alternative budget "Using the opportunities – rate on the future", and this should be a common denominator for all that the Storting actually does. We bet on children, we bet on the environment, we bet on justice, and we bet on international solidarity. And now when we see that the new government has come and put its right mark on the budget that was presented, one also sees that the steps unfortunately go in the wrong direction. Perhaps it is particularly serious to look at ownership policy, where one wants to sell out what is largely of state shares. I have already touched on that, but over time this is very serious. The second, which is very serious, is that this budget proposes the abolition of the tax on dividends on the part of the recipient. And the reason why this is serious is that it places Norway in a very special international situation, as all other comparable countries – perhaps with the exception of one, or perhaps two – in the OECD region have this tax, because of course it is quite reasonable. The second is that this has a distribution profile that is quite hairy. So it's the way that 3.5 million Nordics at all have no pleasure in this, while the richest have much pleasure in it. And the Ministry of Finance itself has calculated that the 84 richest Nordics get an average of 1.7 million. kr each. This is in stark contrast to what you do for the poorest. So what we are doing here is not redistribution policy, but distribution policy. So you no longer distribute, and this government doesn't have the goal of operating a distribution policy. That is also very clear expressed by Minister of Finance Foss: he is more concerned with the poor than that there are some who are rich. However, if we are to operate a distribution policy within the framework of responsible budgets, then we must use the grip that exists, namely that we must take away from those who have the most and who have the strongest back to bear it. Throughout the 1990s, we have also seen that this turbulent trend in income has exploded. This is mainly due to what until last year was tax-free dividends. And after SV's massing for many, many years on overwhelming evidence of how socially unfair this was, fortunately, last year's tax on dividends was passed on. It has been proposed this year to be removed. We will strongly warn against that. This also has another side of the battle that it is important to point out, namely that these people who get pleasure from this, mainly live in the Oslo area. This is mainly middle-aged men who have a lot of money from before. We suggest, as we know, that the share tax should be continued, and we will continue to do so. But, of course, that's not enough. If redistribution policies are to be pursued, wise and effective measures must also be taken for those who have the least. We're calling for a ceiling 2 in the system of ownership, simply because there are a lot of chroniclers who have significant peculiarities, not just related to drugs, but related to many other peculiarities of our society. We spend $1 billion on various housing measures, we increase child benefit for the third and fourth children, we want to remove the self-payment in school, which is a shame that we still have, and we want to keep the child's pension out of social assistance. In addition, the SV's tax profile in this budget is so that they with income less than NOK 300000 will receive tax relief with SV's arrangements. In addition, SV bets on the children, in line with what we promised in the election campaign. One of our most important demands in the election campaign was that we wanted to go down to Swedish kindergarten prices, and we suggest this here. We suggest taking the first step down to $1,500 on average for kindergarten rates. These were many parties in this hall who promised in the election campaign. We have financed this and want to move on, down to $1140, which our poor Swedish neighbours can afford. So we can't afford that. We also propose a bet at school, for which SV is known. We want to spend $10 billion on bets in high school. We want a lot of different measures to create a demanding, committed and teaching knowledge school, a school that meets our children on their own premises, but where knowledge, knowledge, knowledge are the most important. We need to promote learning and enthusiasm. It does, but it requires a little bit more money. I was visiting my old school the other day and was quite shocked to see that the pults were the same as when I went out 25 years ago. I don't think there are so many other employees in Norwegian working life who have the same chairs as 25 years ago. I see that the president has stood up, and that's why I'm going to finish. Finally, I would like to address the many proposals that are in the vote, and also those that have been distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e782	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e787	It is easy to give homage to SV's budget arrangements in many areas, because unlike the government's approach, SV's approach has a social and I would also like to say a district-friendly profile when it comes to tax arrangements, geographical distribution, child and youth bets, health and care and measures for the disadvantaged. However, when it comes to responses for those with difficulty, SV in the political debate has focused a great deal on social aid rates. I understand from what Djupedal here has now said that he agrees that the most important thing is prevention of poverty. I also understand that he agrees that it is important to focus on labour market measures, housing policies, free schooling, cheap kindergartens, which he mentions in his contribution, and that people must primarily live on work or, if they require sickness, disability or age, social security. I have seen in the past that SV has operated with social assistance rates that provide net income far beyond the labour income of many. The question is, how easy is it to see workers in the eye of such a scheme? Does SV not see the dilemma in this if the goal is the taskbar, and that we need to avoid making social assistance recipients a permanent state?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e796	I thank the representative Rudihagen for an opportunity to clarify a manifest misunderstanding that has been published through the Newspaper. Of course, the most important thing is that people can live on their own income. It is the most important action we can take to combat poverty. That's why I also put great emphasis on the fact that there is a lot of society that can do so that many of those who have the least can live on their own income. There's a lot of good reasons for that. For the community it's a plus, for the individual it's a plus. Now, of course, many people can't live on their own income. The election campaign focused more and more on the poorest. It was partly due to SV's long-term involvement. Both the Workers' Party and not least the Christian People's Party and what are now the government parties had totally ignored this. That's why this came in the middle of the campaign as a bomb for most people. The few parties, except SV, were prepared for this. For many years we have been focusing on what we call Difference Norway, the difference that has occurred in our society over the 1990s. Unfortunately, it has been for a period when the Workers' Party has essentially had government power. Now we notice that what this government is doing is making some action. We notice that the Workers' Party, after they received some bonus money from the Bondevik government, comes with some measures. We're happy about that. We are pleased that there is now, hopefully, a majority in this Chamber for actions that will actually affect those sitting at the bottom of the table. Of course, SV does not want social assistance or other public benefits to be paid – as stated in the Newspaper. This, of course, is completely misleading! I can only correct two obvious misunderstandings in that article. We want to remove the cash support. That means you automatically take away a significant part of this. Nor do we want car compensation to be within this SIFO rate of social assistance. This means that this family presented in the Newspaper, with SV's calculation, will come out with something over a thousand times more than what is today's level.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e807	SV considers the budget of the Cooperative Government to be unsocial and most unsocial is the proposal to eliminate double taxation of dividends on shares. So we give cake to the richest, to the poor. Now it's like living by the values that business creates, which is the basis of society's prosperity. Both the private economy, the workplaces and the quality of public welfare services depend on the competitiveness of industry. The elimination of double taxation of dividends on shares is one step in improving the competitiveness of Norwegian business and thus creating jobs. The best social policy is to create jobs, and there is no disagreement between them – it did not sound that way to Mr. Deep pedal. At the same time as the co-operation administration improves the framework conditions for business in order to create and secure jobs, efforts towards those who have the most difficulty are also strengthened. However, SV has greater ambitions. They say in the financial position: ‘All poverty must be eliminated’. My question to Djupedal is then whether SV actually wants to go so far in its redistribution policy that they will eliminate all income differences and thus get rid of poverty. Or do they agree with the Right that there is a need for a new definition of poverty, and that we need to target the measures and do something for those who have the greatest needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e818	I would like to thank the representative Larssen for a good line, because it is of course the way SV wants private business. In our alternative budget, we have many measures to strengthen private business. But removing the dividend tax does not strengthen Norwegian business; it requires a kind of magic formula that says that all those who receive this money somehow invest them again, and there is no automaticity in it. What to do with this measure is to strengthen the shareholders' accounts, and there can certainly be good, valid reasons for it, seen from a right-hand position. But if you are concerned about strengthening Norwegian business, there are quite other instruments that would be far more accurate, but here the government is going in a completely different direction. The removal of SND subsidies – which are fraught by the NHO and the business community – is just contributing to growth, jobs and private business in District Norway. And what we're recording to our great amazement is that there's capital drought in many of these companies. So there's no private capital that you want to invest in lucrative, good businesses in District Norway. So to create this growth, SND has to go in. It is not a goal for SV that the state should be away from this, but we record to our great amazement that Norwegian capitalists do not take the social responsibility they should have taken. Therefore, it is important to have such schemes as SND and to have municipal food funds to create values, wealth and growth in Norwegian business. Then, of course, it is an objective – and I think everyone will agree – that poverty should be eliminated. Poverty should be eliminated in this rich land flowing with milk and honey but unable to use its resources wisely enough. It is clear that the objective is to eliminate poverty, but a philological discussion on the definition of this concept will not be included. The definition given of today's poverty, we think, is more than sustainable. Removing poverty by trickling and modifying statistics, changing tables or changing definitions does not help a single person. The most important thing is what measures the Storting is able to come with so that the people who actually need our support and solidarity get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e825	At this moment, a demonstration is taking place outside with a view to securing jobs in Norwegian maritime business. In the budget position, SV proposes that the Government submit a proposal to repeal the special rules for shipping companies in the tax law of 2002. Since the countries of Norwegian shipping companies and Norwegian seafarers compete with, just having such specific rules, in my opinion, if implemented, this would lead to the end of Norwegian shipping companies and Norwegian seafarers. The question is: is this SV wanting, or does SV really believe that Norwegian shipping companies can compete with non-residents under completely different framework conditions than the other countries have?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e834	Norway has proud maritime traditions that we too want to observe, but for some strange reason it has spread a notion that this is an industry that needs to be subsidized publicly. It is true that many countries have taken more tax measures that make it more lucrative to invest in shipping than in many other things, precisely because special arrangements have been made. We've also done that for our own maritime industry in connection with the shipping tax. I believe that this shipping tax is fundamentally unhealthy and should be removed. I believe Norwegian shipping companies have their backs to carry an ordinary corporate tax. I believe that Norwegian shipping companies have every reason to wish to behave themselves as any other Norwegian company, with the same framework conditions. Norwegian shipping companies and the maritime industry are strong. They have good people, they're competitive, and they've got capitalists behind them, the Norwegian shipowners, who will be able to cope with competition under the conditions of the rest of the Norwegian economy. In many ways, I think it's a paradox, because almost all of the big, heavy companies we have are constantly competing with the rest of the world. Nearly any job you can say that this product can be produced cheaper elsewhere, this can be done elsewhere at a lower cost. And going into the carousel of constantly being pushed to change the level of taxes and charges in order to harmonise downwards is a fundamental unhealthy move, which would undermine the funding of the entire welfare state. I believe that Norwegian business, and that it should also be internationally, should be more concerned about this. I have chaired a working group of the Nordic Council on tax dumping, and initiatives have now been taken both within the OECD and within the EU to prevent countries from taking the lead in this unhealthy tax competition. For this is a fundamental unhealthy tax competition that one country after another is sadly forced to join. SV believes that Norwegian maritime industry will be able to afford entirely normal Norwegian tax conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e843	SV has many good suggestions for many good things, including improving the school. There is no lack of good proposals in their alternative budget for improving school construction, quality and content, for increasing teacher density and smaller classes, which are to the same extent the same. It is difficult to disagree with SV's formulation that one will create the best school in the world. But the question of Djupedal is, isn't this an unsound yes to all-policy? How realistic is it to be implemented? Now SV believes to find room in its alternative budget to be able to implement such a commitment in school, and especially in high school. But what about hands to do the job? Now Djupedal said that it was SV's policy to have more measures to get more hands to work. But is there a thoughtful SV policy that there is a great need for many teachers to follow up the school plan that SV adds to? How many teachers do you need to use these $10 billion? Has one done a calculation of what it will cost to recruit new teachers, and is this included in SV's cost calculations? SV proposed several measures to get more hands at work, but will one find the teachers who will go into school, by taking away cash, by providing wage subsidies to the disabled, by reducing taxes on those who have the lowest income, by encouraging older people to stand longer in work, or in the case of immigration? Is this SV going to find the possibility of a big teacher recruiting? Now Djupedal said yes, SV wants a business. But is it not that an ever-increasing number of government employees in kindergartens, schools, etc., many good purposes that we want will have consequences for how many employees we have left for business?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e854	I thank you for a good line, which gives me the opportunity to talk about some of the things that are closest to my heart, namely, how to make the best use of our resources in our society. If the representative looks up in today's position, she will see the balance sheet in SV's budget, which is actually 23 million. kr less than the Government. So we're tightening up 23 million. kr more than what the Government is doing. Because we do that, as I said in my main post, to show that there is freedom of action and there is the possibility of prioritizing differently, if you like. I also indicated in my post how we actually do this, without going into any detail about it. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party sees the good in SV's policy. I'm glad you might be willing here to meet us something more than they've done so far, in the school bet. So there's no choice, you can like it or not, but there's going to be more employees in everything that goes on welfare production and everything that goes on knowledge production. If our society at all is to have any opportunity to remain a welfare society beyond this century, it will be required more and more. Better care for the elderly, more kindergartens and better schools will be required. This will not be an SV requirement on its own, everyone will demand it – even right-wing people believe that the school should be better. Then we need people. And how do we manage to create resources in our society to bet on what everyone thinks is most important? Yes, that's a priority. This means that all the measures that can be proposed, either by SV or others, to make people stand longer in work and to make people use their workforce better, in another way, are measures that we would like to warmly welcome. Because this is the most important thing: knowledge is the future. There's no alternative but to have knowledge. In the revised budget, we have chosen to include a table, which we include in every one of our alternative budgets, because it shows what is our society's main resources. Many people think it's the oil fortune, but on this table it's a little "pillemik" at the bottom left corner. It's people, that's what we have in our heads, what we have in our hands, which is our nation's most important advantage. That's what we have to try to do even better. That means betting on people is investing on the future, and it's actually SV's alternative budget in a nutshell.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e863	I have noticed that SV emphasises that it should pay off to work, and that despite the struggle that SV is having, like the Center Party, for defrosting and for fairer distribution, it has now fallen quite sharply on the criticism that was made against the Centre Party for a short time, when SV believed that the proposal of the Centre Party for social assistance rates was far from ludicrous, and that we should have supported SV's proposal. Now you've gone back and realized that you can't put social assistance rates at a level that doesn't make it pay to work. I'm glad. But as this has already been clarified, I would like to ask the representative, Mr. Djupedal, about a completely different topic. SV cuts in this budget by SEK 2.8 billion in the defence appropriations. I'm not going to ask about SV's defence policy. That the different parties have different priorities here, I recognize, and we get to live with that. But like the Senterpartie, SV went against investment in frigates, an investment that both the Senterpartiet and SV thought was a faulty investment. So I note that SV is now cutting NOK 2.8 billion and in the budget comments it is said that there is a disagreement that it should be invested in frigates and tanks. However, contractual obligations have now been entered into on investments in the frigates. The central party acknowledges that although we disagreed with that investment, we must actually follow up on the commitments we have entered into through the contracts. My question to Djupedal is therefore: How can it be that SV uses as much of the defence budget as the frigate investments involve to balance its budget with increased expenditure in other areas, when SV knows, in the same way as the Centre Party, that binding contractual obligations have been entered into here, regardless of whether the SV and the Senter Party disagreed with investment in frigates in their time?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e871	I think that this fall for many of us, including me, has been a lesson in how you've thought traditionally about seeing dangers, and that new dangers arise in areas you might not have thought of. That means that the Norwegian defense and also we in Stortinget, I think, have now received adult training in that the modern threat picture is very different from the threat picture that we have been traditionally trained to see. That means that a build-up of strength in Inner Troms does not increase our security, that means that many of the traditional defence investments that have been made to increase our own security, at all, are not close to increasing our own security, because it's not from where the threat comes. The threat picture that's been rolled up in all its horror in front of the whole world's eyes, makes us in this field, too, have to look at what we're spending on, what we're actually investing in. We understand, of course, that the defence has contracted many of these things. In fact, we believe that it would have been right to renegotiate some of these contracts in order to get them to a lesser extent and thus to get out of them, so that you can also spend this money more on meeting the threat picture that most people now see as much more serious than the defence traditionally had. We are also attending a debate on this, because we record to our great disappointment that very many are still stuck in a traditional threat picture, despite the fact that this fall has been a terrible adult training for many of us. This means that more people should agree that many of the defence contracts we have concluded should be renegotiated, simply because they are not representative of what is actually the threat to Norway. The threat picture is different, and that means that the marine defense was ready to trick the Storting into concluding these contracts about frigates, was an accident. It is true that SV and the Center Party strongly warned against this, but even if we lost that fight, it cannot be that we cannot continue to say that this money should have been spent in a better and wiser way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e878	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e881	The Christian People's Party bases its administrative responsibility on economic policy. We believe it is important that the economic governance of the country also builds on a foundation that is based on a firm and stable view of value. Responsibilities of the AIFM that we look beyond the next day a decisive emphasis on coming generations after we see the health of and analyse the consequences of the policy we want to pursue There is a broad political understanding of the proportion of petroleum revenues to be used at any time. This understanding is based on thorough and comprehensive analyses from different disciplines, such as Statistics Central Bureau, Norway Bank, Ministry of Finance and an independent professional environment with a high level of competence. To base serious professional analyses on our decisions that I think are good management. The proposal from the cooperation party is thus designed in line with such a view. In the budget board of these three parties, we have the power to bring about a change in economic policy. It's a turn like, among other things, will strengthen the jobs of the industries exposed to competition, e.g.: the elimination of double taxation of the loss of profits from investment tax deductions from aircraft seat charges increases road investment improvements to tax relief schemes for investments in research and development-reduced tax on additional options; A good business policy is a good district policy. There have been criticisms against the Government that the focus on district policy has not been given high enough priority. I would like to put it this way: by providing for a budget that could lead to a fall in interest rates — a budget that will strengthen competitive business — by strengthening the SND low-risk loan scheme by half a billion dollars, and by other measures that also provide better access to capital for business, the cooperation parties have set up a district policy that will be robust over time. By improving the overall framework conditions for business, we strengthen our regional policy. When it comes to agriculture, the clear reduction in the state budget must be seen in the context of what the Government says in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 4: ‘In the course of the 2002 agricultural negotiations, an investigation will be carried out with a view to improving the tax regime for agriculture.’ Furthermore, it is clear that the agreement currently in force should not be affected by the reduction and that real negotiations should take place in the autumn. The Government Party has made changes in the management of the Financial Committee which further strengthen the areas that the Government prioritises. In addition to increasing the children’s supplement to disability benefits, keeping out of the calculation basis for measuring social assistance, increasing the effort for drug users and increasing the minimum deduction, the cooperation party has reduced the cost of the payment of medical assets from DKK 1500 to DKK1,350 and suggests that disability and old-age pensioners are exempt from the ownership of medicines and medical products on a blue prescription from October 1. This strengthens the Government's efforts to improve the conditions for those who have the most economic weight. For the Christian People's Party, this is a priority area. The total impact of the tax and tax burden that the Co-operation Agency is proposing also shows a profile that we would like to acknowledge. For the majority of wage earners groups, the tax and tax burden will be reduced by between 0.7 and 1.1 pst next year compared to 2001. Or in another way: next year, each person receives an average tax return of something over NOK 1700. It is a priority for the Christian People's Party to maintain and further develop the welfare society. In this context, we see that private individuals can provide useful supplements in areas such as kindergartens, hospitals and various other welfare services. This is not contrary to public responsibility. This is where I talk about boats and boats. In our draft budget, child care spending is strengthened by DKK 1 billion in additional transfers compared to the current budget. In addition, the operating margin is adjusted by 170 million. kr. These are important measures to achieve the objective of full child-care coverage in 2003. The flora of voluntary teams and organizations that are driven and held up by idealism, commitment and on the move, performs an effort that is not only impressive but is in fact irreplaceable. The social value of this work is estimated at NOK 40 billion per year. years. Whether the estimate is correct or wrong, I can't go well, but the expression 'impressive', 'incorruptible' and 'unreplaceable' is what I'm in for. On this basis, the Co-operation Agency in the proposal for an additional 100 million has been committed. as compensation for additional expenditure incurred by voluntary organisations as a result of the VAT reform from 1 July of this year. If the draft budget is going to end up in port, that's 200 million. kr to consult for this purpose. It is said to find a simple and accurate system that allows the funds to come to their destination. Furthermore, in the additional proposal, the Co-operation Administration has announced that it will look more closely at various measures that may improve the financial conditions of voluntary organisations. In the revised national budget for spring, there will be, among others: see in more detail the scheme for the deduction of gifts to voluntary organisations. It is not only the poverty situation in our own country that is a priority area for the Government; also internationally, the Cooperation Government will take responsibility. The goal is for Norway to increase development assistance to 1 pst. of GNI by 2005. It is in connection with this budget taking a good step in the right direction, by the ODA-approved assistance will be 0.92 pst. of GNI in 2002 versus 0,89 pst. in 2001. This is the Christian People's Party well-accompanied with. We in the Christian People's Party are proud that the Minister for the Environment has marked the environment policy of the Cooperation Government in a positive and clear way. In order to strengthen the environmental profile even more, the draft budget includes: 65 million collective investment. SEK, research on CO2-free gas power plants will be further increased by 30 million. kr, and someone gets an extra bet of 20 million. kr. The result of the fall’s rollout showed a strong desire for a new political course in the country of origin. Already this first draft budget from the Cooperation Agency shows that a new course is possible – and realistic. This implies an economic policy in which the main objectives are work for all, further development of the Norwegian welfare society, fair distribution and sustainable development. A strong and competitive business is one of the means to achieve these goals. Next year, when the Co-operation Board gets to add the entire budget, just from the first foundation stones, this policy course will become even clearer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e951	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e954	There are many things in the budget today that I am pleased that the government of Stoltenberg is getting through with the support of the new government and the government party. It shall apply, inter alia, to: bets on kindergartens, bets on challenge and that possessions on blue prescription should be removed, as Sørfonn mentions a part of it. But when there's room for increased spending, we separate teams with the Christian People's Party, because then the Christian People's Party will give the 100 people with the highest income, 1.5 million. kr in tax bill. The 3000 with the highest income are taxed on average at NOK 190 000. This is not what the Labour Party wants to be on. We want to give the most tax relief to those who think the least. So that's where we split up – in addition to separating layers in the new course of business policy, which Sanner used to say the time to boast. And then I see that the representative Sørfonn is not feeling well. I never think we've got so many questions about cutting in the SND and in the actions that SND represents, that we've got this fall. It's dramatic what's happening. But 80 pst. of all the measures in which the SND is involved are successful. Since 1993, 15 000 small and medium-sized enterprises have benefited from SND. And in addition to the $32 billion spent, a total of $70 billion comes from private sources, and between $40,000 and 50,000 jobs have been established since 1993. The Christian People's Party will now grant tax credits to already established companies, but will not think about re-establishing them. This is very dramatic for the municipalities in Norway and for the districts. This is sad. And then I'm going to go around with the representative of the Christian People's Party to explain to these nine municipalities in Hordaland that 20 million. kr is less than zero. It's supposed to be an experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e963	First of all, I can assure the representative of Frøiland that the representative of Sørfonn is doing very well. So these are unnecessary concerns. When it comes to double taxation of dividends, I would like to remind the representative of Frøiland that last year at the end of the Budget. S No 1 stood the Christian People's Party and among others The working party in a multi-stakeholder commentary entitled ‘Provides that the dividend tax will only apply to 2001’. It is also interesting to hear the argument from Frøiland today. But when it comes to the double taxation of dividends, it's one of several steps to raise risk capital for business, and what we think is right and what we think is important. For just when it comes to district policy, a good business policy is the best district policy. And we don't say that SND isn't important, but it's that in the device that's chosen, it's committed to prioritizing the broad district policy over the narrow one – if you can say so. There is also the possibility of prioritising SND’s operational actions in the districts; it can be done by the county councils, so that a certain room for action can be found where it is needed. But look at what's done together, the liquidation of the dividend tax, the introduction of an improved R & D deduction and the removal of the fare osb., we think that we are overall well-informed with the business policy it's set up here, and we're over-informed that in the districts, where the value creation is for a large part, this will have positive results.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e972	It is clear that there are some positive things in the government party about their contribution to the government budget, among others. Is it positive that someone has now cut the alcohol tax. And especially considering that Sweden will reduce the wine fees from 1 December this year, this is an open step in the right direction. The problem is that the tax reductions are too small, especially on wine. In view of the above, Swedish tax reductions should therefore also be at least 15 p.p., as proposed for spirits. In connection with that, I would like to ask the following questions to the Christian People's Party's fiscal spokesman, Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn: What kind of strategy is behind the proposal to reduce brandy by 15 p.m., while the wine levy is only reduced by 5 p.m.? Does the Christian People's Party want more control over consumption from wine to spirits, or is there any other strategy behind it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e979	I thank you for a line that gives me the opportunity to clarify a little bit more what is behind the proposal that I have been making when it concerns the reduction of alcohol taxes. It's simply that when it's for spirits, it's actually a little bit less than half translated through the Wine Monopoly. The remainder is via other more or less illegal forms and channels of trafficking. And in the Sem statement, the government statement of the three parties, it's called that one's goal is to reduce total alcohol consumption and bring more of the alcohol sales into legal forms. When it comes to wine, it is less illegal to translate. I don't think quite the percentage there, but a much larger part is at least translated through the Vinmonopole. In the case of beer, there is little illegal turnover. So this fee mechanism, where the tax reduction on spirits is the largest, is primarily to try to bring a larger part of the alcohol turnover back to the Vinmonopoly, so that it can use the eugenics policy tool that the Vinmonopole was supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e988	It's a part of us who have trouble recognizing the Christian People's Party's policy in the setting that we have to deal with today. In several of the important areas, it looks as if the Christian People's Party has distorted its former positions and allowed the Right to have great permeability. Take ownership: On the home page of the Christian People's Party we can read under the heading «National ownership – public ownership» the following: ‘The objective is to ensure national ownership of business. This is not least the case in industries with high strategic importance and in some key enterprises. In some cases — such as the financial sector — few instruments other than direct public ownership can guarantee national ownership.’ How, then, can the Christian People’s Party be involved in the greatest hall and hall of state ownership? There's nothing in today's situation that suggests that there's a hurry to sell out state-owned parts. On the contrary, it will be warned against it from several quarters because we do not have national, long-term investors who can accept what is to be sold. Thus, additional good Norwegian enterprises and good Norwegian competence are sold on cheap sales abroad. On the home page of the Christian People's Party, you can also read what they think about district policy: ‘We want the settlement to be maintained also in district Norway. We must then be willing to use economic instruments to do so." But how can the Christian People's Party now be involved in the gigantic cuts in district policy instruments that are just this budget proposal? We think that Bondevik broke the first round of negotiations with Right because district policy was too bad. But what was the Christian People's Party won in the second round, except for the Prime Minister's post? The government's proposal means cut in SND by NOK 1.7 billion, which has now been DKr 1.3 billion after the government's part has put in another half a billion. We have cut into municipal and regional nutrition funds of DKK 350 million, cut into the agricultural agreement of DKK 300 million, osb. Can the Christian People’s Party as a whole recognize such a district profile?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1011	The replica probably went into two main areas. First, he went to state ownership. There is at all no problem for the Christian People's Party – with what we have both said and stood for before – to stand in the way of others. the note entered in the budgetary position and otherwise expressed in the Government's policy. We're gonna win here, too. that we are in favour of «the state is cleaning up its ownership of the business sector and defining what it wishes to do with ownership in each case». We think that might be a useful exercise. We further say: «The future ownership of the Member States must be limited to companies of an administrative nature and companies in which ownership has a clear political basis.» Further: ‘Such reasons for direct public ownership may be the existence of economic activities that the market cannot otherwise resolve, such as: specific infrastructure tasks, management of key common values, head office functions and research and development efforts.’;» When it comes to district policy, I tried to answer it a little bit in the previous line. We have claimed, and we still claim, that the best form of district policy is a good business policy. There's been a certain conversion of some tools – that's right. However, with the grips taken in total, both in the removal of seat tax, the liquidation of double taxation of share dividends, the introduction of a greater degree of research and development deductions and reduced taxes on share options, we are overestimated that this will provide better access to risk capital that will bring together business – including in the districts – to come out well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1029	Whatever the representative Sørfonn may say about the government's district policy, the presentation of the co-operation government budget represents the fact that the Christian People's Party has carried out a district policy reverse operation of dimensions. This reverse operation has occurred since the time when the Christian People's Party and the Center Party were put together in government. Let me take a few examples: during Bondevik I, the focus on SND's district policy arrangements was strengthened. Under Bondevik II, the appropriations for SND's loan schemes and grants were proposed to be reduced by what we now know is DKK 1.3 billion compared to the year's budget. During Bondevik I, it was set by a separate pot for profiling the districts, Bondevik II has no similar bet. Bondevik I created a project with the training of what we called positivity agents, under Bondevik II, that project doesn't seem to be continuing. During Bondevik I, there was a heavy investment in municipal nutrition funds, Bondevik II has cut out the entire post. Bondevik I would add all new state jobs outside Oslo, Bondevik II has not said that they will follow this up. Bondevik I wanted broadband to the whole country at equal price, Bondevik II believes that the market is going to deal with the expansion of broadband, with the distortions that we know will result from this. – The examples could have been more. The co-operation administration has said that there has been limited scope for changes to be made in its budget in conjunction with the budget of the Workers' Party. However, it has been said that one direction has been indicated. My question to the representative of Sørfonn is: is it so to understand that the Christian People's Party will be in favour of further and reinforced weakening of the regional policy effort in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1041	The representative Haga and I are very disputing about the premise for the question, and I guess the answer might not be exactly the way the representative wanted it. When she asks us if we want an additional weakening of the district profile, we think it's actually not a weakening of the district profile. We want to maintain a strong district profile, a business profile, because – as I said earlier – a lot of business development, business and value creation are happening in the districts. For this reason, district and industrial policy are two aspects of the same issue. When it comes to the tools used, I would also like to stress that maybe one of the most important tools is the interest rate instrument. Setting up a budget that can provide the basis for an interest reduction will be a tool that will mean a great deal to the municipality of Norway. Half a percent interest rate decline will represent 400 million for Kommune-Noreg. kr. In addition, a further half a billion dollars have been invested in low-risk loans to SND during the budgetary procedure of the Government Party. Therefore, I do not share the conclusion of the representative Haga that this is a weakening of the district profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1050	That's something I don't understand! Now the representative Sørfönn says that this is not a weakening of district policy. Compared with the government budget proposal that was on the table when the Bondevik government took over, rural development and industrial development have been reduced in a number of areas: grants for research and development contracts 65 million. kr, development grant, SEK 114 million. kr, subsidies to industry development in the marine sector 30 million. SEK, municipal food fund 93,3 million. SEK, start-up grant 50 million. kr, etc. It's the facts that lie on the table. Then I think the representative of Sørfonn can be so tidy that he stands on the speaker's chair and says, "Yes, this is a weakening." It may have been necessary to get a budget. My question is, how can the elimination of dividend taxes and tax deductions for research compensate for this? This is to a large extent enterprises that are not in the tax position and do not pay dividends. It can take ten years for a new company to get into the tax position and pay dividends. What I want to explain is how this can compensate for these dramatic cuts in district policy. Then the representative Sørfonn says that they want to bet on the big business policy, not on the small one. My question is then: is this a line that the Bondevik government and the cooperation parties will continue until next year so that sooner or later we will come to a time when we only conduct big business policies, i.e. tax deductions and tax reliefs, and do not have district policy measures through SND, etc. At all? Because if it was right as the representative Sørfonn said, that investing in the big business policy was much more sensible than investing in the small one, the consequence should be to go further in this direction with tax incentives rather than bet on the SND. The truth is, of course, that all the companies that depend on some help in a start-up phase are not helped by these tax reliefs to the Bondevik-led Right-government, but that they need these subsidies, the start-up tips and the help, in a start-up phase. And then a little question at the end: why is it absolutely right to cut the alcohol charges by 15 pst. This year when you said no to being on the same cut when the Workers' Party proposed it last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1068	This was a lot of questions in a short time. Firstly, when it comes to how the dividend tax will work for those who are not in the tax position – as I see it – the removal of this issue will provide access to risk capital that will once again strengthen the business environment, strengthen the start-ups osb. Here's a clear context. When it comes to R & D bets, I have recorded that in the revision, a clear order was made to the Government to submit a proposal based on the Hervik selection. It was not done by the Stoltenberg government - it was a very short model that was produced. The co-operation management has raised this a good deal, so that there are many more enterprises that are now subject to tax deductions for R & D investment. The representative had another question like falling out for me, I noticed a little quickly here--
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1079	The alcohol charge!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1086	Thank you for that! When it applies to the taxes on alcohol, it is absolutely no problem. I did the right thing for it in the previous answer. Last year, we had a dialogue with our partners at the time to combine a reduction in alcohol charges with preventive action on the part of our partners. As far as I'm concerned, there was a great deal of dissatisfaction between our social fractions when it came to the very point of the eugenics policy measures proposed by the Labour Party at that time – hence the unsemja.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1093	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1096	‘Rike believes higher taxes will not help the poor’ was the NTB heading following an MMI survey. Those with household income over NOK 500000 would not have increased taxes to balance the differences. Also, the government thinks mostly of the richest. The Foss budget dramatically increases the differences by distributing reliefs into top taxes, dividend taxes and option taxes of more than DKK 4 billion in annual impact. 14 pst. of all those over 17 years of age, this whole gain. The 65 pst. which makes less than NOK 150000, received no tax gain – only NOK 1 billion of less tax for them with revenues between NOK 150000 and NOK 200000. The recent adjustments in the Committee gave some to the poor – without affecting the richest. There must have been a lot of bad advice that voted for these three parties – perhaps based on the Christian People's Party and the Left wrote to the long-term program in spring together with the Center Party: ‘The differences between the richest and the poorest in Norway are increasing. These members will work to reverse these developments.’.» I would like to mention some major loss items in the social accounts in this article. I've already mentioned one. The credibility of politicians has become too thin. We need to become more concerned with creating an agreement to help those who need it the most, even after the election campaign. It's about the willingness to keep words, to cooperate, to make rules for our budgeting that allows those who don't want to bet on those who have the least, to be downgraded. I think Norway will now benefit from a majority government. It has to be made up of those who care about helping where the help is most needed. We must have less political games. The centre party has also offered cooperation with this government, based on the desire to influence towards better distribution, better district policy and better conditions for building value creation. Cooperation is the tradition of the Centre Party. We have very rarely been rejected. Lack of confidence in elected representatives is one of several major loss items in the social accounts that are not there because they cannot be numbered. Some loss items have been identified, but the countermeasures in the budget are puzzled. The extent, causes and costs of sick leave are well known: 220,000 lost annual works. We know what prevents cardiovascular diseases, cancer, muscle and skeletal disorders, mental disorders. Medicine against high cholesterol currently costs the state as much as sports get from the drugs. It's the way that the medical record has no limit. The sport must sell more lots. The lack of labour and its consequences for value creation, wage and price pressures are well known. At the same time, there is a lot of willing labour that is not allowed to participate. A group is they over 55 years old. It's said to be 50,000 annual works. The works and the refurbishment constitute 330,000 annual works. Unemployed persons represent 80000 annual works. Of the disabled, 30 000 want to work. Immigrants can provide 180,000 extra annual works in 10 years, it is said. Part-time workers want to work extra 23 000 annual works. In healthy queues, we lose 7 000 annual works. From all of these we should be able to pick up 100,000 annual works. With the same professional participation and working time as men, women could participate with an extra 380 000 annual works, Statistical Central Bureau has calculated. Nevertheless, we continue to underpay women and reward rich men with tax provisions, opening up more imports of labour. Black economy is another big loss item, DKK 100 billion per year in turnover, it's said. Centralisation costs are another loss item, Norwegian fish are processed in China as well, and ownership without social responsibility is allowed to spread. Furthermore, there is unfair distribution in society, for example: at 32 pst. In 1999, women made less than DKK 100 000. The Central Party has the heading ‘Preventing better and building further’ for our budget line. We certainly believe that loss items can be reduced if appropriations, taxes and charges are used correctly. We want to cost a little more to save a lot in a few years. Cutting off prevention measures is stupid when it can lead to severe costs later. We have made the prevention idea visible by making the scheme dependent both on a loan from the oil fund of a few billion and by proposing tax relief only to those with low wages. The centre will spend a lot of money preventing children from becoming criminals, and young people and adults from becoming clients and patients. We want to invest DKK 2.5 billion more in a better primary school, better child protection, more and cheaper kindergartens, better responses to drug abuse and more liberal social assistance. We find it pointless to reduce alcohol taxes to an extent that, according to professionals, would result in 100 more deaths per year. We're increasing the cost of smoking tobacco by over 40 pst, because we think fewer young people will start smoking. The centre lot will prevent centralisation according to the central government’s recipe by stimulating existing and new businesses through SND and other good tools and moving state jobs where there are job vacancies. We're going to bet $1 billion on the transport sector, where there's a lot of needs and lots of vacant machines and professionals. A better network of walking and cycling routes prevents accidents and makes more people go or ride to work and school. Our strengthening of the community economy will contribute to fewer branch schools being closed, and fewer young people become dependent on school kissing. We will suggest that a big message be made about the importance of increased physical activity and better diet. The government has now confirmed that broadband expansion is much slower than the Stortinget has foreseen. We're proposing half a billion dollars from the state in the first year. Not least to be able to decentralise state administration, a well-developed broadband network will be important. We see that the decline in the population is particularly worrying in the interior, and we suggest that an Inland Commission similar to the Odvar Nordli once led, and that apparently contributed to the Olympics and the Great Airport going north of Sinsen. The centre party will prevent poverty and poor living conditions by helping people get into work. We're proposing 150 million. extra for work training and sheltered enterprises. Then we will grant substantial funds to the many poor people who are homeless. The Centre Party will contribute more to the prevention and health promotion activities carried out by non-governmental organisations. We launch a power cap for local teams by proposing tax deductions for gifts to them. Such exemptions have been introduced in most countries. The voluntary sector should receive a zero rate within the VAT system. For 2002, we increase the compensation for the service tax to 200 million. kr. The hourly rate of grants to cultural and music schools is increased from 69 to 100 kroner, and we want a significant increase in support for local and regional cultural buildings. The Centre Party's alternative budget was submitted before the Foss budget. Our option includes an additional investment in districts and value creation of NOK 3.4 billion. Specific measures for prevention and distribution amount to a further DKK 4.5 billion in relation to the budget of the Workers' Party. The efforts of the Labour Party in districts, in cohesion and in the municipal sector were extremely disappointing. That the Foss budget was considerably worse, does not change our criticism of the Workers' Party. The Labour Party also prioritised a reduction in top taxes. Then they have later used 2 1⁄2 Foss billions to improve both the social and district profile. The Foss budget massacres the appropriations for innovation in the SND and the Research Council and the additional stimulus to the districts through municipal food funds and business areas. These cuts will lead to great losses. It is not just district farms and municipalities that protest, but it is where it will sting most. The centre batch will help start-ups by removing the fee paid to the Brønnøsund Registers. We want to stimulate the ownership that takes the most social responsibility, by removing the inheritance tax on nutrient wealth in family businesses. The Centre Party will maintain the new research and development grant scheme now proposed for the removal, its extension to several enterprises and the statutory 20 pst. grants to avoid unforeseeable budget cuts. This latter seems to be the only real counter-representation from business and researchers to maintain a grant scheme instead of the proposed tax incentive. The tax arrangements of the Centre Party amount to more than DKK 1 billion in tax bills in relation to the Stoltenberg proposal for them with revenues between NOK 120000 and NOK 200000. According to our arrangement, it is tax-free in relation to today's system for everyone with incomes less than 500000 kroner. We're introducing a separate tax deduction of 500 kroner for lonely with low income. Several targeted actions are needed for the benefit of this group, which have been lagging behind in economic developments, including: due to increased municipal charges and housing costs. It's good that students and students know how to tell us about a breach of promises. But what about the municipal sector, which gets stuck with the worst guy? I think the time has come to introduce a right of reservation for new tasks and reforms with which there is no money, until a local self-government with real content is put in place – without pit control. I also think the seafarers have reason to say really from. The maritime industries have experienced more unforeseeableness than any other industry, while the maritime clusters are documented as a success. Here we have succeeded. Now the government has to tell us how to proceed. I am disappointed that the work has not come any further, and that the previous government did not initiate it when it was promised. I hope that the entire fleet will join the investigation that is coming, including the coastal cargo fleet, which should be modernised under the Norwegian flag and with Norwegian seafarers. And then I want to put forward the suggestions that the Central Party is behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1169	The representative has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1174	The representative Morten Lund pointed out that the central party has much more to do with the responsibility of the local authorities, and the central party also tends to emphasise the importance of ensuring value creation throughout the country, and that people should have an equally good service offer, wherever they live. The income of municipalities is very different, and we're not going so far beyond the capital's city limit until we find municipalities with incomes that are among the lowest in the country, measured per. the population. For example, the municipalities in Østfold have: on average, the lowest income per year. is resident in the country. While the level of expenditure in these municipalities is often close to 100 p.p., income is close to 90 p.p. With such a gap, it is therefore impossible to provide citizens with the service they should have. I hope the Centre Party also has the inhabitants of the street south of the capital in mind when they point out that the service offer should be independent of residence. Then the Central Party has 680 million in its budget. kr more on the way, and the justification is among other reasons. consideration of the value creation of districts. No matter where in the country the value creation takes place, about 80 pst. of what we export and import, which is carried over land, through the E6 and E18 bottlenecks in Eastfold. It doesn't help so much to get the fishing trails out of Møre and Romsdal if they have to line up on the E6 before they pass the Svinesund. So I hope that the Center Party will be involved and spend some of its 680 million to help us get a majority to speed up the deployment of E6 and E18 through Eastfold than within the 16 years that it's now up to. It will contribute to the creation of value both in the districts and in more central regions. I hope that the Central Party will try to contribute to a majority for this, even though we are talking about the main road to Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1185	The two themes that have been addressed here, municipal poverty and the lack of means of transport, are probably one of the most important issues facing people and filling local and national newspapers. I believe that municipal poverty is great, and that there are very few municipalities that have it liberally enough in relation to the tasks that the Stortinget has imposed on them. Why it has now become so, a person can really fool around, as good a contact as we should have with our voters, and as important services as the municipalities stand for. But at least my perception is that municipal poverty exists throughout the country, in all kinds of municipalities. It is possible that we should now have introduced a major city grant to the largest cities; it is possible that we have come back there again. But otherwise, there are questions about more money, simply – more money and greater freedom for municipalities to do the job instead of dealing with detailed requests and reports afterwards. So the question is where we're going to bet these extra millions on. The centre party will probably be investing that money further into the district than the Right and the Advance Party will – I thought maybe there wasn't such a big difference between the Workers' Party and the Center Party there. Those who drive the fishing trails from Hitra or from the coast up in North Norway may think the most important thing is to be able to drive with the full load all the way down from the salmon fields, that we're able to get the standard up on the outermost roads. They think it's even more important than getting rid of the last turns at the border. But our export routes are important. I think that in the future we have to do something so that we can drive more of our fish out by boat, because if we reach the targets we have in our aquaculture industry, our roads just won't have enough capacity. - We'll hope we'll get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1195	In its proposal for a State budget, the Central Party reaffirms the role of a different party in Norwegian policy. This has a major impact on business and for the most part on people, especially in tax policy. Price levels of alcoholic beverages and tobacco in Norway are well above levels in our neighbouring countries. Norwegian agricultural products are significantly more expensive than Swedish and Danish agricultural products. The trade leakage against Sweden has exploded in recent years and in 2000 was between 3.5 billion and 7.5 billion kroner. This year, growth continues — even after the halving of the food tax, the trade leakage towards Sweden has increased by 10 pst. The price differences are incomprehensible to most people, and they then settle down. Furthermore, there is a widespread and increasing illicit and unregistered consumption of alcohol in Norway. This undermines the ability to pursue an effective alcohol policy, because people are less and less using the Norwegian wine monopoly, which has been the basis of Norwegian alcohol policy for a number of years. From 1 December, Sweden will charge the wine fee with a new 19 pst. In a short time, the EU is expected to significantly increase travel quotas between Member States. This pushes even lower taxes in Sweden, and Norway is becoming more and more a different tax policy country. The central party’s response to these challenges for 2000 is to increase the cost of smoking tobacco by 40 pst. In addition, the lot opposes any reduction in the specific level of taxation. So my question to the representative Lund is: Does the Central Party agree that the trade leakage against Sweden is a major and growing problem, and what are the measures of the Centre Party to reduce this leakage?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1208	The big question is which values and themes you focus on. Four years ago, a new center government came. It focused on minimum pensioners, toddlers' parents and districts. They brought you the extra money. This time it's the millionaires and cheaper spirits that are in focus. There's a huge difference between the two governments. The centre party wants to maintain a Norwegian agriculture. To do that, we need proper border protection; that's what we're working for all the time. We want a limit protection in the case of raw materials, and we want it in the case of further manufactured goods. Eliminating the price difference between Sweden and Norway is totally unrealistic if we want to maintain the pay gap. We have 20 pst. higher wages and salaries in Norway. If we're going to remove the trade leakage, we're going to have to go down to the Swedish payroll level. And we can't do that. The centre party also does not want agriculture to fall to the Swedish level in terms of its mode of production. Swedish agriculture is a long way off an industrial farm. We don't want to introduce this to eliminate the price difference on agricultural products. So it was this one with spirits. The Committee has just received a letter from the Minister of Finance, from the Right, in relation to the quotas for border trade. The Progress Party wants the quotas to be the same between Norway and Sweden as between EU countries. The finance minister has said in the letter that we have to forget it, because all trade is then going to cross the border. It is not realistic that we should be able to have the same prices, even on spirits, as the Swedish have. In the case of smoking tobacco, according to the body which informed the Committee on the tobacco levy, it has not proved to be a frontier product. People don't travel more than five miles to buy tobacco.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1223	Negotiations were broken with regard to the budget, between the cooperation parties and the Progress Party. At that time, the parliamentary leader of the Central Party was very quick out there and wanted a broad budgetary settlement. But it was quite clear that the cooperation parties would not listen to that ear. They may have thought that it would be incompatible with the Cooperation Government's policy with the Right as the dominant party that had won the election, and the Center Party. I know the representative Lund well. He was the head of the Business Committee in the previous period, and he was a strong spokesperson for a traditional agricultural and district policy. But when we look at the Sem statement, there are some new thoughts and visions coming, which probably also the Center Party had to feel bound by if they were to enter into an agreement with the Government. I am thinking of reducing the difference in food prices between our neighbouring country and Norway, which was reinforced by Bondevik afterwards. And then we have this law on concessional limits for acquiring livestock – pigs, chicken, eggs, etc. There is now a desire to assess the limits of getting more in line with other countries and getting more competitive. I talked a lot about this in the election campaign because the Eastfold farmers did not understand why they should lose for Swedish farmers when the health, environment and safety requirements were the same. Is the Sem Declaration and the Agriculture and District Policy of the Government compatible with what the Centre Party will be facing in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1232	The content of the Sem statement surprised us, and of course it would not have been the case if the Senter party had been involved in the negotiations. When it surprised us, it wasn't because we thought it was strange that the Right wanted a Right Policy. It was strange that the party with which we had written the common position for the long-term programme and for the revised national budget had changed so much. However, we invited you to a budget settlement. We believe it should be such that the Financial Committee delivers a majority vote or a majority vote in favour. We invited a settlement to get a better distribution and to get a better result when it came to district policy and the investment in the weakest – in the areas we thought it was the most biased compared to what we wanted. We've been active to get cooperation, as I've said before. This time we got no answer. Food prices in Norway and Sweden have actually approached each other in recent years. This has happened, among other things: by deducting VAT. I think it was high time, it should have been cut even more. It has also happened that the farmers have given away income, and I think we have reached the limit for a time back. They can't go down any further if we're going to have the hope of keeping a Norwegian farm. I have seen a majority in the Norwegian people want that, and they have also said on several occasions that they want to keep the support schemes we have, in order to maintain Norwegian agriculture. I have not met many people who want us to produce broiler and pork in industrial plants. People are more concerned with the quality of food than with the price. I think we've had enough of examples of the last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1241	The center party went to the election of a center government, which was not overwhelmingly well received, at least no success. At least the voters did not say yes to it. That means that two of the former governmentmates have now chosen to join the Right. And I'm recording that the Center Party, at least some in the Center Party, has now decided to find new partners. I have also registered that we have received a letter. It's nice to get a letter. I have registered that the Workers' Party also received a letter. I guess the Workers' Party also thinks it is nice to receive a letter. It is one thing in modern times that it is not so nice to get an email as a letter! What the letter said was to invite them to work together on the budget – it was now that time. But what I want to challenge the representative Lund is the following: how does the Central Party see them coming back into a power position? What parties will they now find it natural to ally themselves with? I noticed that the party's leader, Odd Roger Enoksen, got to the hump when he suggested that we cooperate with the Workers' Party, and was strongly corrected by, among other things. The party's vice-president, who thought that this should not be said at least if you meant it. That is why I wonder whether in the invitation that the Centre Party has now sent, there is also a thought of more committed cooperation from the Centre Party against the Workers' Party and SV. Or does the Center Party feel comfortable where they are?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1248	We don't feel comfortable with the election result that was, but there's nothing to do with it. We invited a collaboration around the budget, and I said instead why we did it. We see that everyone is going to try to figure out cooperation solutions, so we don't have to be in the situation that we're in right now. We may not have had the greatest responsibility for it, but we now took that initiative. We also said from what improvements we wanted. I think the government would have earned it, if they had gone into it. When a government makes itself completely dependent on one party, and excludes cooperation with others, and when, in my opinion, the policy is as strongly changed as it has now, the parties in that government have to get reactions from their voters. I don't think those who voted on those parties would have wanted so much gain for the richest. I don't think those who voted in the Christian People's Party had realized that in the first budget there would be some relief in the alcohol tax that some say will lead to the death of 100 more people. Then there's another thing, the one with obliging cooperation in a government. We've said that it's unlikely that it will happen in this period. We can't force ourselves into any cooperation, and I think that cooperation in a government for our part will happen after we have had a big choice. Then we will see what the voters say about what has happened in this period, in relation to our efforts and in relation to the efforts of others. As for what happens in the society of changes within that time – it was said here that this is the first year in the new era – I am a little afraid that there can be great changes if this government continues to cooperate only with the Advance Party in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1257	The centre party is, according to its own statement, engaged in good services in the municipalities, but, as I understand it, against the launching of the public sector. At the same time, the Central Party is also opposed to monopoly in business and to maximum competition there, which is positive. In this context, I have the following questions to the representative Morten Lund: If competition works and is positive in the business world, would it not be wise to launch some municipal services by making public payments, and that the best provider performs the services? Can the representative Morten Lund explain why competition is positive in business, but not in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1262	Municipalities run so often, and I know that there are still some people who doubt that there are municipal employees who are going to pick up the garbage and broken roads, for that matter, or måk snow. In many other municipalities, it's been a long time since they ended it. But care, health care and education are among the basic services that I think municipalities should operate with. I also think that the others who work at a school should be municipal employees, and that one should not resort to competitive outsourcing in the field of janitorial services and cleaning, for example. But we gradually get experience from those who have been exposed to competition in health care, in water supply, in care. Some of the seniors from Stortinget were on tour in Denmark to hear about their experiences just after the Stortinget meeting this year, and I then met a representative from the Right who told us what resolution they had adopted. It was cross-political unanimity when it came to what those from Norway had learned from the Danish trials. It was negative, they didn't want us to go on the path that someone in Denmark had come quite far on. Because it turns out, as someone has warned, that after a while you're not satisfied with those who've had it, and then no one is ready to take over – there's no established device to take over right there. Some places in the country will be able to do well with outsourcing, because there are some competing. Somewhere else it's not like that. So we're skeptical about the outsourcing of basic services, which is about care, which is about school, which is about health services. So to it a little bit bigger, what the state is doing. There was a little newspaper here this day about the experience of New Zealand. I was so lucky to be able to visit that country in my first growing-up period. They were early on privatization, and we're maybe where they were 15 years ago. The experience of the newspaper is not very positive either in terms of the situation of employees or in terms of the performance of public services.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1269	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1272	The left is well pleased with the design that the budget has received following the changes made by the Co-operation Government to the Stoltenberg Government's proposals. The budget has been given a good environmental profile, a good social profile and an offensive industrial policy, in line with its priorities. The government's priority is to increase bets on a range of areas, including: poverty reduction, care, public transport, preparedness for terrorism, environmentally friendly energy research, education and voluntary organisations. The new government implements a much more offensive environmental policy than the previous government, vis-à-vis Sellafield and climate policy, in the work on pollution-free gas power stations and on the development of public transport. The Environment Fund will increase by DKK 1 billion. Some of the most delayed and forgotten in society, the drug addicts, finally get a real boost, and the efforts for the poorest are increased by, among other things. increase child support, supports and minimum deductions. Support for voluntary organisations will be increased by 100 million. kr. A range of areas have been significantly increased in relation to the 2001 budget. It shall apply, inter alia: the development of kindergartens, increased access to health and patient care, assistance, further development of care for the elderly and rehabilitation and construction of new school buildings. Unfortunately, agreement on the budget has not been concluded during budgetary negotiations. The Cooperation Party has subsequently adjusted its draft budget. It proposes additional tax havens for those with low labour incomes and for pensioners, reduced medical properties, support for ferry companies, more for public transport, police, courts and district development. The left sees it as very important that the budget be within a responsible financial framework and that we follow the rule of action if we do not use more than the yield of the petroleum fund. Further use of oil money will reduce interest rates. It may be tempting to spend more oil money in many good areas. And individually, such suggestions can be heard dependable, it's just going to be spending a little bit more money here and a little bit more money there. Unfortunately, the price that has to be paid may be dramatic when irresponsible fiscal policies lead to higher interest rates. No curtailment frames more unsocially than high interest rates, and in particular it frames the young people to establish themselves. A responsible budget, on the other hand, will provide the basis for a fall in interest rates. Lower interest rates provide better conditions, both for private individuals, for business and for municipalities. We have received many telephones and letters when it comes to cutting off the SND's licenses, but there is no doubt that all the improvements for the business community often do away with these cuts. For example, the SND cut is approx. 400 million. kr, while business improvements are close to NOK 3 billion. Both the elimination of double taxation of dividends, the removal of air passenger charges, the reduction of business research and better option taxation are examples of measures that strengthen employment. The opposition has found little to criticize in this budget. The co-operation administration has not cut well-being, as the Labour Party said, but on the contrary has strengthened the commitment to a range of important welfare areas in relation to the Stoltenberg government’s proposal – more to those who have at least, for care, to volunteer Norway, to the environment and to education, to mention something. On the other hand, it is only now, after the election, that the Labour Party has begun to take an interest in the poorest. However, instead of taking action that works, they choose to pursue symbolism policies for double taxation of dividends – a tax that frameworks Norwegian businesses and jobs, and which the Labour Party itself argued against in clear order until a few years ago. There was a clear commitment in the Budget Agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre Party for 2001 that the dividend tax should only be payable for 2001. Now, the Co-operation Board follows up the agreement – or one might say that the Christian People's Party and the Left, who were part of this agreement, he follows up – and removes the double taxation. In fact, the left is very pleased with the draft budget that is now under discussion in Stortinget, although there are things that we will continue to work to get on the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1302	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1306	There were a lot of things to deal with here, but I want to be a little bit positive, because I think there's a lot of things we're dealing with in this big thing. It is included in the budget of the Stoltenberg government, which is also followed up by the new government, Bondevik II, and there is a commitment to very many welfare arrangements – kindergartens, as the representative calls, and various other things. But I think it's very ugly when a representative is standing on the speaker's chair and says that it's only after the election that the Labour Party has begun to take an interest in the hard-hearted, because the representative knows very well that that's not true. We introduced a lot of measures in relation to the difficult budget of the Stoltenberg government, measures amounting to over 2 billion kroner. So the government of Bondevik has found room to spend more money, and we're of course fully aware that we should do the same. And then we're going to use even more of the more difficult ones, and the left is going to give tax relief to those who have the most, i.e. 1.5 million. kr to the hundreds richest. But what is the greatest difference in the policy of the two governments is, of course, precisely the industry. That there is an offensive business policy – well, it goes on tax, but then it's all those who are not in the tax position. I think May Britt Vihovde has received as many letters about SND as we have received, about the consequences. And when, for example, look at what we are going to live on in the future, in our marine products and in our shellfish industry, sees that with this cut in research into the development of industry in the fisheries sector of 30 million. kr is not able to evolve further. This is an industry that is important to our district, which is important to all of Norway, and that is important to exports, and then I wonder what answer May Britt Vihovde has to those who have received these over 400 concessions that are now being stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1313	I want to start talking a little bit about the social profile, because the representative Frøiland said that I was a little unfair to the Labour Party when I said that it was only after the election that they had begun to worry about the poorest. Then she brings out this dividend tax, the double taxation, as if we were giving to the rich, while the poor don't get anything. However, in the 2001 budget there are quite a number of tax incentives for Norwegian business that the government Stoltenberg has put in, and that we were negotiating, but there is very little for the poor. And in the revised budget, where we were involved and trying to negotiate for good solutions, the Labour Party was almost unwilling to move a millimeter to help those who had the least. One received a social assistance rate, and a letter went out to Kommune-Noreg to reduce the rate of social assistance and create a minimum standard, which many municipalities have followed up, and which today have problems coping with. So when the Labour Party is talking about double taxation, when a good set of measures for Norwegian business to get a business life to invest in jobs – jobs that all depend on – makes what I call a envy policy. There was one who said that the most contagious disease in Norway was jealous – it was neither medicine for him nor the ability to prevent him. And what I now feel is that the Labour Party is adding up, is that one uses this double taxation – that one will have a business life that will have opportunities to invest in good jobs – and tie it up against those who have the least. This government wants to show – and will show – that we can actually do both. We want a business that produces services, that exports, and that returns taxes to Norway that we can spend on those who have the least, and that will contribute to raising them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1320	This summer's number shows that there are more than 3,000 workers available. In addition, many plant machinery are currently available and unused. The distribution in the country shows that almost 1,000 of these vacant workers come from Rogaland and Hordaland, and in that context I have a question for the representative of May Britt Vihovde. Does it make sense that they are going unemployed and raising unemployment benefits, or would it be more sensible for society to get them into productive work, so that one could also realize many useful road projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1325	I could have been tempted to answer yes to the question from Hagesetter. But I would like to remind you that the Government is adding up the rights to the transport sector. For example, one proposes to put off competition. The state road system, and it will enable very many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to enter and compete, to be given jobs both before and before the maintenance and construction of our road network. It's very positive. I also believe that when you get a good competitive environment, a good framework for Norwegian business, so that the different companies can use these works, it can also be positive. But I don't want to jump to say that one should move money from the unemployment rates and over to the road investments. I don't think this has much to say. This has something to do with keeping a tight economy, keeping public investment down, so you don't get interest rises. It frames all of these operators. It also affects Norwegian business. It frames them as e.g. will go into and invest in new machinery and equipment to compete, and hopefully compete with the State Road Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1332	The left went to high banner choices in some issues that are also important for SV. This applies, inter alia, to: issues related to the environment and youth in education. The left talked a lot about both the need to strengthen public transport and the need to increase scholarships for students. They talked about how important it is to get a free textbook system in high school, and they talked about the student discount on public transport. What happens when the Left has been putting forward a government budget? Well, all of these areas are now being cut. I have here a note from Nature and Youth that has recently been published, including: It appears that if you look at the draft budget of the Bondevik Government, you will find that the overall calculation for public transport is a cut of 115 million. kr. We also know that the government has withdrawn the promised supplement in the scholarship to the students. We know that the government has taken away the money that was going to go to the school book lending scheme. If you look at the education budget a little bit, you'll find that it's also cut in the student discount, among other things. on the NSB long-distance train, which will make it significantly more expensive for students to travel by train. This is contrary to what the Left had as its main concern in the election campaign. My question is: Is it the case that these priorities are the own of the Left, and the expression of the choices that the Left believes are important to take – for example. that the money now goes to tax relief instead – or whether this is the Right Policy that Left has had to bend to in the process?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1339	When one sits in a big group with two representatives and the party is in government, I thought the Left should be very happy with the additions and the environmental profile that our government has created in this budget. Then I want to say a little about the loan arrangements and scholarships. It is not possible to surprise the representative Lightground that the left side is opposed to 100 million. kr on a loan scheme where one is going to buy books to be placed there and our school students are going to use, and then one might not have enough money to replace these books. The left has always been against the way to do it. We want the students in the secondary school to receive a scholarship, and that's what we and this government are going to do. When it comes to the grant scheme, it's a scheme that makes you feel sick and unable to take the exam, and it's also something that left has been opposed. We want to increase the scholarship, and there's also something this government is going to do, even if you haven't got everything in this game. But no one is surprised that one has managed to reverse a system that these three parties are opposed to. Then to the public transport. We ended up in the budget deal last year to get 190 million. kr to strengthen collective, and we managed that. We have followed up on this draft budget by adding 50 million. kr for collective investment. It's going to the infrastructure, to the T-Bahn. Finally, a few steps can be taken in a very important project for Bergen, which the representative Lysbakken is also engaged in, that is, the city track, a project that has a doctor in the water of death, with which no one has said that a person really wants to do something. This government has taken hold of it and has raised 5 million. kr for planning purposes. One has also seen more money for student discounts, for discounts to our youth. That's to show that we're going to bet on this. So I want to say to the left, it's important to be where power is exercised, to be able to influence, and to influence the direction. That's never going to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1352	The representative Vihovde didn't quite fit in his first reply to say so much about an offensive business policy, so I'm going to give the representative a new opportunity. Whether the Left says that this budget represents an offensive industrial policy, there are enough people who will claim that the budget of the Cooperation Government means that both the Christian People's Party and the Left have carried out a district policy and industrial policy reversal of dimensions. One might wonder what really happened during the last six months. Has the situation in the districts changed significantly? Have the challenges to SND and industrial policy changed significantly since the Left joined forces with the Centre Party in comments highlighting the importance of an active, targeted and specific industrial policy? In the central government, the Center Party and the Left were united to strengthen the SND. There's no reason to minimize the $12 billion you're now reducing on SND. Under the central government, the Central Party and the Left were united in establishing new district policy measures, which are now being deleted by the new government. The Minister of Industry has publicly stated that this is only the beginning of a change in course. This is a price change in which the specific business policy is to be built down in favour of general tax relief. On that front, there's an improper part left to fulfill the promises of the Government. My question to the representative must then be: Will the Left continue to be involved in the reduction of industrial policy and regional policy measures, as we now see in this budget, and which the Minister of Industry claims is just the beginning of a change in industrial policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1361	I tried in my post to draw out that a cut on the SND with 400 million kroner. kr, but add at the same time an increase in the Norwegian business environment of NOK 3 billion. I want to say that the impression after my meeting with District Norway during the election campaign was: What is the need? Yes, we need more labour. We need more for transportation. We have a desire for more research and development. We want stable framework conditions in line with Europe, so that we can develop and create good jobs both in cities and elsewhere in the country. We thought the interest rate in Norway was too high. Unbelievably many people out in District Norway came and said to me, "Get down on the flight fare." When one was going to go in and make choices, we've actually chosen that this was important to do in the first place. And then one of them was cutting on SND. What I mean left was the right priority to do at this crossroads. If you deliver a tight budget and get your interest down, it will benefit District Norway. It will benefit Kommune-Noreg – those who will then deliver good welfare to us as a cage in District Norway. It will benefit the business community that will produce good and forward-looking jobs. It will benefit all those who will establish themselves, no matter where they should establish themselves. We in the Left think there is a good district profile in this budget, even if one has cut down on the SND's licenses. Rather, we want to keep on the watch by ensuring that the schemes we set up are the ones that give the most results. Like I said, "Cut on SND pain." I think they're killing all three of them in the government. But one chosen to prioritise other things, more aimed at business, which I actually think will help better.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1368	I believe that we can quickly say that the proposals that are leading to the budget today will provide a good basis for interest rates to fall. It is not just the proposal that Mr Vihovde is putting forward, which is on the agenda. But what I asked for the word for, gallant social assistance. The representative Vihovde said that a letter had been sent to all the municipalities to reduce social assistance. As far as I know, guidance was sent out – not to reduce social assistance, because it was up to the municipalities to decide, and very many municipalities have increased their social assistance rates. So it's not possible to say that, it's not the case. It's nonsense from one end to another. So she said that in the budget that is now presented by the Bondevik government, the social aid rates are increasing. Then I ask for a reader's guide to tell me where they are extra. I have read it so that one has the aim to increase it, but one should come back to the specific bets. I ask that we tell me where it says, and of course I will take note of it. Whenever there is a loan arrangement for school books, I think it's okay for one to hold that it should be a scholarship instead of a loan. But then one has to spend the money that was in the government's budget of 100 million. kr, to a grant scheme. But May Britt Vihovde has been involved in removing these money. Therefore, there will be no grant scheme. When it comes to the ordinary grant scheme, it's completely wrong that if you're sick, you get an unpaid scholarship with the scheme that we in the Workers' Party were introducing. One may have a two-year postponement, and yet one may have more scholarships with the arrangements that were signed in June of this year, than with what the Bondevik government is now adding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1379	Let me start with the textbooks of those in continuing school. One could have chosen to have used these 100 million. kr, which was in the government of Stoltenberg's proposal to expand the purchase of books, and put them into a system, but instead we decided that one should work on this in order to get a proper grant scheme. So it's deferred. But it must not surprise the representative of Frøiland that we didn't go in with 100 million. NOK to buy even more books that might be lying around. So I guess I was a little bit inaccurate when I was talking about social assistance. Here, the government of Stoltenberg sent a letter on guidance social assistance schemes that was less than the very many of the municipalities have today. One also asked that the child benefit and the cash support should be kept out, it should be counted as income when one started to calculate them. And it's done that a lot of municipalities have gone in and reduced their social assistance rate. If a municipality has begun, the next municipality has begun, because one has said that one must have a certain similarity. This has led a lot of people to find themselves in an incredibly difficult situation, and that's what they were already doing. What the cooperation administration has done is that they have adjusted the rates in the guide lines and added funds to the municipalities, so that a person can actually calculate the cash support and thus increase the level of social assistance. And that's to help those who have the least. In addition, we have put in more money for other things. Our heavy drug addicts. There was a proposal of $30 million. kr in increase from the government of Stoltenberg. It has the government plus 71.5 million on it. kr. There is a good way to help those who have the least. There's something that this government wants to invest in, and the Left wants to join this government to help make sure there's a bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1390	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1394	The Coastal Party will provide this budget with a value-conservative centre profile. That's why we're focusing on two things in particular. One is that tax policy should contribute more to giving people the most the opportunity to live on their own income. The second is that districts should be given good growth conditions, so that we get a balanced development across the country, and that the pressures in cities are reduced. How are we to ensure that tax policy makes it easier for most people to live up to their obligations and thus develop into authoritative and independent people? The Coastal Party proposes to reduce taxes and taxes on necessities such as food, housing and work. In this way everyone can afford to buy healthy and good food. They have a greater chance of living safely in their home, and they may have a job to go to. When the food tax was reduced from 23 to 12 p.m., many doubted whether this would benefit consumers. However, it has turned out in retrospect that the food prices have been reduced by approx. 10 pst. from May to today. The Coastal Party will therefore continue along this path and submit proposals for voting on a further reduction of VAT from 12 to 6 pst. It will bring savings to consumers of SEK 1.1 billion. In addition, it will contribute to increased competitiveness for Norwegian business and to a reduction in the trade leakage to the rest of the world. We hope for broad support for our proposal. The dwelling is currently subject to both tax on benefits, property taxes and property taxes. And it's an international trend towards taxing housing harder, because it's not as easy to move as other tax items, the dwelling's stuck there. The coastal party will go the other way and remove all forms of house tax. In particular, we will focus on the income tax on the benefits of owner-occupied dwellings. A dwelling must be kept in the same condition and represent a cost to most people. Then it becomes strange to pay income taxes on stipulated economic benefits by living in your own house. We are therefore pleased that the Government has in the long term committed itself to abolishing the benefit tax on housing, and that the Progress Party agrees with this objective. But the Coast Party believes that these parties are moving too slowly to achieve their goal. We suggest that the deduction be increased from 80 000 kroner to 200000 kroner, which will save the owners of the dwelling about. 780 million. in 2002. Owning your own home provides home security and training in managing values. Therefore, it is important to better facilitate the ownership of more people. Today, the document fee is an obstacle to such development. The Coastal Party therefore supports the proposal from the Socialist Left to exempt people under 30 years of age from paying a document fee when they buy their own house. The Coastal Party will provide tax relief for business so that we will continue to have full employment in both urban and rural areas. Regional investment will have a less price driven effect than urban investment. We are proposing a further regional effort in many areas. The shipping industry needs a level playing field with our competitors in other countries. The Coastal Party will therefore be in favour of a better reimbursement system for seafarers, and we see that our proposal for net pay arrangements in the shipping industry, which was now promoted, seems to be becoming a reality. The Coastal Party will maintain the 1999 depreciation rules before the Centre and the Workers' Party reduced the depreciation rates. This corresponds to a saving for business of 417 million. kr. We also want to maintain a higher depreciation rate scheme in the districts. The Coastal Party wants a greater commitment to business and jobs in the districts and proposes that the SND's allocation framework be increased by approximately SEK 2.2 billion in addition to the Government's proposals. Greater funding is needed for school and health, and therefore the Coastal Party proposes that the framework grants to municipalities and county councils be increased by DKK 1.3 billion. We know that there are major challenges in pension obligations for municipalities, extra bills from KLP. The Coastal Party will reduce transport costs and therefore has proposals for reduced ferry prices and greater investment in the road sector. We will maintain the transport aid in terms of fuel and fruit, as the Government proposes to remove. The coastal party is skeptical to the companies in, among other things, North Norway is not given the same framework conditions as the companies in northern Sweden and Finland for the transport of goods. In this context, it is pointed out that the EU has much more favourable systems of distance transport support for businesses. The coastal area will also point to a greater commitment to the maritime industries and the framework conditions in order to increase the volume of transport on the keel. This also presupposes that maritime infrastructure is better and more developed. The Coastal Party supports the proposals to investigate the relocation of state institutions from Oslo. Such emigration will generate growth in other parts of the country and reduce the pressure in Oslo. The Coastal Party will reduce the tax burden on both individuals and businesses, while maintaining a good public service offer throughout the country. This is done by a limited reduction in the huge State budget surplus. The economic outlook is not as good as previously assumed, so there is room for some stimulation of the economy. On this basis, I would like to put forward the proposals made by the Coastal Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1430	Karl-Anton Swensen has put forward the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1433	Minister of Finance Foss was clearly not entirely satisfied when he presented the draft budget from the Government. He apologized that it had been little time to change on the submitted budget from the Workers' Party government. The Prime Minister has said something similar in a newspaper post. In recent years, in its alternative budget, Right has had the habit of moving around NOK 20 billion. Last year, the late parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, Kjell Magne Bondevik, boasted that he had been given the greatest change of time in the submitted budget. Last year's changes were about $20 billion. So he was in opposition. This year, with the entire government apparatus in its back, it has been harder to re-prioritize, and the government is therefore careful to move on above NOK 4 billion. Personally, of course, I'm glad that the changes didn't get bigger. The Labour Party budget was a good budget with a focus on children and young people, more and cheaper kindergartens, upgrading school buildings, more on health and lower taxes on work – so the fewer the changes, the better. I'm a little more concerned when I look at the changes that have been made, not least when both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance say that this is just the beginning. The changes that have been made show which way the Government wants to go. If so, there is every reason to congratulate the Right, for there can be no doubt that this party has got its stamp on the changes that have been made. There are some small additions in areas that are important for the other government parties, but these additions are more like alibi, or fig leaves than real priorities. The substantial changes made are as received from the Right Party application. Taxes go to those that have most of them already. The hundreds of people with the highest income get 1.5 million. tax credits, while those with low incomes receive little or nothing and have to bear the additional costs of medicine and school books. The government is carrying out a total change in business policy. Taxes seem to be the only valid recipe from the Government. Important arrangements that in our time had wide upsurge in the Greatness are being shaken because the Left and Christian People's Party have changed sides. The abbreviation for "SND" seems to have got a new meaning. The cooperation management downgrades the districts. Enterprises, entrepreneurs and communities around the country are insurrection because of the Bondevik government's cuts in the State Food and Rural Development Fund, SND. SND has been one of the most important industrial policy instruments in the last decade. Thousands of enterprises and tens of thousands of jobs have been created and safe due to the SND schemes. In June, there was a big message about SND being treated here in the house. An independent assessment of the SND shows that a good job has been done, that SND has worked according to the regulations, and that one has achieved good results. Thus, a broad plurality on the Stortinget, including the Christian People's Party and the Left, pointed to the value of the work SND does, and stated that the SND's promises should continue approximately at the current level. The Christian People's Party and the Left, together with the former centermate the Center Party, said in a note: ‘These members will also facilitate a broad register of public support and development measures and make risk capital more accessible to small and medium-sized enterprises. In this important work, SND is very central.» But it was then and not now. Less than six months later, the Christian People's Party and the Left have simply sacrificed much of their district and industrial policies to be able to rule with the Right. What the government is now proposing, is simply to implement it as the Right Party and partly the Progress Party entered into ours, the time of strong protests from the Christian People's Party and the Left. A radical cutting that the Government is now proposing has very serious consequences for business, especially in District Norway. SND plays an important role in assisting entrepreneurs and small businesses in a difficult start-up phase, but also all established enterprises benefit from SND’s schemes. Even in the early stages of growth, birth support may be needed. The marine industry and the IT industry are between those who respond more strongly to the new cutting proposals. Cutta's coming at the worst possible time. Terrorist acts on 11 September intensify the decline of the international economy. The market for many Norwegian exports is falling, and the Government itself has announced an increase in unemployment. Business wear and tear, and the demand for venture capital is higher than in the long term. At the same time, the private capital market has dried up. Security is high here at home and internationally. The cut in state aid schemes and risk capital is therefore a completely wrong signal now. Reactions in industry and districts have not been delayed. The district is in a state of insurrection. Lower taxes are good and good for those who get them, but the fact is that a lot of those who benefit from SND's schemes don't pay taxes at all. In particular, these start-up enterprises and small enterprises are at an early stage of development. In practice, this policy benefits cities and over-enterprises. The conversion of business policy leads to the transfer of funds from districts to central districts, from small businesses in the start-up phase to large well-established groups, and not least to their owners. For example, the government has priority to abolish the dividend tax. Half of the $1.3 billion tax this gives ends up in the Oslo area, and the rest of it goes pretty much to our other big cities. In these days, negative messages about what cut will lead to happen in practice. The Foundation of the Business Committee has become almost insurmountable because of protest letters and despair of messages from those who are being framed by cutbacks. Also local politicians country and beach around protests, and a district opposition has been organised internally in the Christian People's Party – understandably all the time these cut throats with the Christian People's Party's program. Precautionary framework conditions have been a tribute to the current government party and have been used diligently in recent years. SND cuts do not give anything but a decent situation. The fact that the Government also proposes to remove the reimbursement scheme for the foreign journeys does not give any particular serious situation either. On the contrary, it must be one of the clearest lifting breaks in this period. A year ago, a gathering went in to give Statkraft a pretty good dividend policy by taking 50 pst. of the excess. A year later, the government party proposes that one should take 80-90 pst. of the excess. That's how long the predicament lasted. In addition to the SND cut, the government proposes a cut of 300 million. Agriculture – agriculture is known to exist mainly in the districts. The government removes the anti-fracture approach, and the contribution to municipal nutrition funds will also be removed, reducing the local authorities' ability to drive economic development locally. All in all, this is one of the most district hostile budgets in a very long time. That a Right-dominated government makes such a proposal may not be so strange, as we all know that this is a policy that Right has fought for for many years. That the Christian People's Party, on the other hand, has agreed to these changes, is harder to understand. In any case, the party has sacrificed much of its district and industrial policy, but that is probably the payment you have to make to get the Prime Minister. At least one thing is certain: so far is the Right who has got the policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1462	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1465	This became very much. The representative of the Workers' Party starts by referring to the Bondevik government's budget proposals as so-called de minimis changes. Then the representative goes on to solve these so-called trifling changes, and they say that it is going to rage both industrial policy and district policy, with the sovereign forgetting that even when you warn against an extreme dividend policy, as you say, after the Yellow Book has been presented by the Stoltenberg government, you add up to 700 million. kr, by saling with increased dividends. So this isn't at all hanging on to the grip. I just want to remind you that the so-called rage of the SND is cut to 17 pst. in relation to the proposals of the Stoltenberg Government. The Labour Party has been involved in determining the budgets of this house almost without exception since the 1990s. During these years, Norwegian competitive jobs have been systematically reduced year by year. There have been fewer and fewer of them, loss of competitiveness and loss of market share. Norway has been helped to become a different tax, tax and interest rate policy country. If the Workers' Party does not understand that the best contribution to District Norway, and to any job exposed to competition in this country, is now to get the strange, high level of interest rates to crawl down very quickly, then you are not what you pretend to be, namely, the best friend and spokesperson in the workplace. So this is not at all related to business policy, and it shows that the Workers' Party does not know what to do about business policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1472	There are very many of the government's voters who are disappointed after the government has submitted its budget, because very few of the promises that the government party joined in the election campaign are followed up. And there must be reason to say that, in total, there have been few changes in relation to the budget submitted by the previous government. I've noticed that the government party has a technique where they find a thing that has nothing to do with these changes, that's the interest question. But there is nothing in this new draft budget from the new government that differs from the previous government's budget in relation to the issue of interest rate policy. Both budgets stick to the same total frame. That's the distribution of the money we're discussing in this room today. The effects on the total economy and the interest rate question remain unchanged. So to the extent that interest will go down, which it will probably do, there's as much reason to give the previous government the credit for it as the new government. So I have a certain understanding that a person is trying to draw this question out, because there is very little one that can show relative to the changes that have been made. Then it is understandable that one is trying to find another explanation. I don't criticize Right to promote its policy. This is, of course, why a great deal of policy is needed, in order to make the policy a reality. What I tried to express in my article is the effects of this policy. It's strange that two parties that so late as six months ago were strongly dissenting in this policy, now actually not only go in for him, but also say that they have become for this policy. I feel strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1479	The representative Aksenssen was very concerned about this with predictability in terms of the framework conditions, or lack of such, of the cooperation parties. The Progress Party is also concerned with long-term, predictable framework conditions. Earlier today there was a demonstration in front of the Stortinget. Members of Norsk Sjømannsförbund, Maskinistförbundet and Norsk Sjøoffisersförbund tried to convince politicians that long-term predictable framework conditions are important. And I think it's gratifying that the retired Stoltenberg government presented an innovation in terms of a net pay regime for the seafarers, then specified to Fjord Line and Color Line. I hope, if we adopt a framework tomorrow, that there will be opportunities to get this system lifted by our new government in its state budget. Net pay means long-term, predictable framework conditions. Finland, Sweden, Denmark and a number of other countries with which our seafarers must compete have these framework conditions. So I'm going to take the accent on the word here. Does he intend to contribute to the development, at least through a verbal proposal, of a net pay scheme for Norwegian seafarers – not just specified to Fjord Line and Color Line – in order to improve predictability? The facts are that the Storting may change the framework conditions twice a year in the context of the budget and the revised national budget, and that is not Norwegian shipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1486	Let me first say that I have a very great understanding of the demonstration that was outside here today. For several years, the party I belong to has been criticized by a number here in the hall for not having managed to set up with good enough framework conditions for this industry. Of course, this is a result of the priorities that we've done in the batch that I'm in. But there have been a number of times when it said that it would give this industry a decent environment. It turns out that when a person has the power to pursue that policy, it is more difficult to implement these measures. The last Bondevik government cut down on the reimbursement arrangements, ran counter to everything they had promised, and despite the fact that they had criticized the Labour Party for not being far enough careful in this area. And one of the big surprises in the budget presented by the current government was the proposal to remove the arrangements for ferry companies that one had set up, so that they would have good framework conditions in line with what one has in neighbouring countries. So once again -- I fully understand that people are protesting, because there are a lot of people who have voiced at these parties just to ensure good framework conditions. And then when they see that the first thing they're talking about is they're doing, they're escaping from their promises, and I realize that they're both being worried and being upset about what's happened. When it comes to the proposal that the arrangements for ferries should be made more general, I am unable to respond to this concretely here and now. We may discuss this further in the Committee when appropriate. But we want to fight to make sure that the arrangements we put into our budget can survive, so that that part of the industry will at least have a good framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1495	The representative of Olav Aksensen was concerned with district policy in his contribution, and I am very pleased about that. He talked a lot about that it is a bad district budget that has been presented to us now, and I fully agree with that. It's probably one of the worst district budgets we've ever seen, which will mean a negative development, I think, in District Norway. But that's not the first bad district budget we see. I, who have lived in District Norway for the past 20 years, and who has been running local politics, have felt this densely on the body and have experienced that all, most of the state budgets that have come, have been bad for the districts. They have not all been equally bad; waves have gone a bit – some have been useful, some have been very bad. This time we get a very bad district budget. There is no problem with a bad district budget for a year. It will not lead to dramatic changes in District Norway. The problem is that we've had a district policy in the last 20 years that's been bad. And my question to Olav Akselsen is therefore: can Olav Akselsen and the Workers' Party imagine to be involved in throwing overboard the district policy we have, that we are creating a new puzzle, a much larger puzzle, and putting new pieces and rethinking districts again, so we do not have to get the enormous confusion and exodus that we experience day after day, we who choose to settle in the valleys, out on the islands and inside the feathers? Can the Labour Party – those who have been in charge of this country for many years – imagine that we are now completely reconsidering the Norwegian district policy and resetting the pieces?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1502	I have a lot of understanding that people who live in a part of the country where the population is falling, the number of older people is going up, and it's getting harder and harder to keep up offers like schoolrooms, kindergartens and that kind of thing are worried. As far as I understand, Inge Ryan comes from such a place, and he may therefore experience it so that the district policy that has been in place in Norway for the last 20 years has our faults. Unfortunately, I don't think we can decide that people should be bowed where they live. But on the other hand, I believe that the measures we are taking here in the Grand Duchy are important for population development and can be involved in and guide developments in much of the country, and then it is important that we identify measures that are the best possible. So there are examples of rural areas in which a population has also grown, and a much more favourable population situation than that, for example. is the case in inner parts of the Nord-Trøndelag. When one has experienced a negative trend over many years, one should go through all the tools that one has, to see if things can be done in a better and more effective way, and whether other measures have a better impact than the measures that one has used for now. At least the previous government had an offensive policy of trying to locate the most possible of the state activity, especially new activity, to parts of the country other than the Oslo pot. If one agrees with the description that many things have gone wrong in the last few years, one should at least not be in favour of the budget that the government party is now promoting, because it will contribute to a stronger centralisation and a much more difficult situation for District Norway, not least when it comes to creating new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1513	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1517	There are many teams who speak beautifully about the need to improve the community economy because it is where well-being is created. Equivalent services shall be provided within the core areas of the municipalities such as school, health and care. Then a system has been created that in practice turns out to be entirely different policy objectives. The report of the Technical Calculation Committee for Municipal and Municipal Economy shows that the distribution of the framework state transfers to municipalities is largely responsible for it. The combined concept of the ‘municipal economy’ actually makes very little sense when we see that the income differences between municipalities are very large and that these differences are largely created in this room. When the average income of the municipalities in Westfold is 91 pst. of the national average, and that of the municipalities of Eastfold is 92 pst., while the corresponding percentage for Finnmark is 133, it shows with all possible clarity that geography is the main criterion for the distribution of the framework state transfers. In addition, the employer's fee, the electricity charge, special tax rules, etc. This, of course, leads to what everyone says they are against, namely big differences in the provision of municipal services. The Party considers that transfers from the State to the municipalities should be made on the basis of objective criteria. It is therefore necessary to provide a substantial part of the population grant, because it is the part of the framework transfers that are made according to criteria that take into account the different expenditure needs of municipalities and that facilitate an equivalent municipal service in all the municipalities of the country. Other grants, such as the North Norway grant, the regional grant and the extraordinary discretionary grant, are motivated by a political idea aimed at allocating to some municipalities and regions at the expense of others, based on geographical location. The Progress Party wants to ensure that all municipalities have an equivalent offer in the core areas of school, health and care. We believe that the best way to do this is to let the state assume direct financial responsibility for these most important public tasks. Only in this way can we avoid the large and sometimes dramatic differences in the services that we see today. In the alternative budget of the Progress Party we cut about. NOK 3.4 billion in transfers to the local government sector, but the impact on wages and prices resulting from the overall arrangement of the Progress Party will lead to the strengthening of the economy of almost all municipalities. The Progress Party believes that there are large potential efficiency gains from public activities, not least in the municipal sector. Efficiency is primarily a question of achieving results, preferably with less resource input. The social-democratic solution has always been to put more money into the public sector rather than to look at the organisation and efficiency itself. This means inefficiency and does not provide socio-economic optimum solutions. The market economy has shown that competition is a good tool for achieving maximum efficiency and good offers at reasonable prices. Therefore, public services should also be encouraged to compete. There is no reason why tasks for which the public is responsible must be carried out under public authority. The public can concentrate on financing the services and entrust them to private production. Where private enterprises and public establishments are to compete for contracts, competition is to be assumed to be real. Unfortunately, that is not the case today, and there are especially two conditions that make it so. Firstly, public authorities often do not have a real pricing of their service production, because not all costs are included in the calculation, such as rental costs, parts of administrative costs, etc. Secondly, we must have a system of VAT compensation which is general and which does not favour production with its own employees. It is essential that the Government follow up its promises of the Sem Declaration and establish a general system of VAT compensation, which goes directly to the department or department which has had the expenditure and which provides compensation much faster than today. First, we will be able to derive efficiency gains from the public sector, which, not least, have based their tax laws on the right. We have a new government that has been established with the support of the Progress Party. The basis for such support was promises that this government would pursue a different policy than the Labour Party government. In particular, we had high expectations of Right’s promises of significant tax relief. It is not too hard to say that our expectations so far have not been met in the near future. It is surprising that a government with the right, such as the absolute largest party, is stuck on a draft budget that contains tax cuts in a wide range of areas. The government wants to increase the tobacco tax, the one-off charge on the car, the annual tax, the re-registration fee, the petrol tax, the diesel tax, the boat engine tax, the butter oil tax, the CO2 tax, the waste tax, the chemical tax, the chocolate tax, the basic charge on the packaging of beverages, the environmental tax on the packaging of beverages and the sugar charge. These are proposals for tightening up 15 different charges. The progress of the party is against these aggressors and, in addition, proposes a wide range of reliefs on the charging side, both because we believe that the overall level of taxation in Norway is too high and because the charges are particularly unsocial, i.e. without regard to the ability to pay. In particular, this applies to some charges, such as: the electricity charge and the car charges, which, in addition to being unsocial, also constitute significant amounts for each individual. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes significant reductions in these charges. The Progress Party also takes seriously the significant and growing trade leakage to Sweden and Denmark and wants to do something with it. The only dangerous way to go is to do something about the high level of Norwegian taxes, especially alcohol taxes, because alcohol may be the most important bait in relation to border trade, but also because the large difference in charges between Norway and the rest of Europe provides a base for organised crime of significant dimensions. We have seen the emergence of mafia-like organisations specializing in the smuggling of alcohol and tobacco products. The profit opportunities are enormous, and the smuggling along with home burning and tax-free trade has led to less than 50 pst. the spirits consumed in Norway are marketed through the Vinmonopole. In the illegal market, availability is high, including for minors, and quality is sometimes fatal. The Progress Party believes that in the long term it is impossible for a country to live with such large differences in the level of fees compared to neighbouring countries, and will do something about it now. That is why we are proposing to reduce tobacco taxes by 40 pst. and reducing alcohol taxes to Swedish levels. We think it's necessary to do such a powerful act if we're to be able to change people's behaviour. A reduction of 15 and 5 pst respectively, as proposed by the Government, in our opinion, will have no effect on changing people's habits, but will only lead to reduced income for the state. When we know that Sweden will need to reduce its taxes further, it is important that Norway also join in order to avoid further increases in trafficking and border trade. The fact that this will cost the State significant tax revenue is not necessarily true even if the Ministry of Finance claims that it is. There is some experience from the rest of the world that says the opposite. In Switzerland, which had a high level of charges in relation to neighbouring countries and a significant border trade problem, the taxes on liqueur wine and spirits were reduced by an average of about a quarter. 40 pst. from 1 July 1999. Despite the total alcohol consumption falling by 4.5 pst. the following year, the country's tax revenue increased. In addition, Switzerland received full VAT benefit from all border trades that were withdrawn from neighbouring countries. The budget does not contain any measures to renew the car park, which would be the most important environmental measure on the car side. The average age of the Norwegian passenger car park is approx. ten years, and nearly 40 pst. the cars are still without a catalyst for exhaust gas cleaning. The high average age is also a safety aspect, as new cars are significantly safer than older cars. In recent years, there has been a raging trend in this area, and it should not be such that due to high charges Norwegian drivers must be required to drive in more road-hazardous cars than drivers in other countries. In 1996 the conversion of charges was based on the assumption that the weight component would be responsible for approx. 45 pst. the one-off charge on typical family cars. The weight of such cars was then estimated to be approx. One hundred kilos. After that time, the weight of such cars has increased by 50 to 100 kg, significantly due to increased safety, both structurally and as a result of new safety equipment such as airbags, anti-lock brakes, etc. The increase in weight has now caused the weight component to stand for about 60 pst. of the one-off fee. In addition, the progress in power and the volume part is strongly affected. This particularly affects families with children, who depend on larger cars that necessarily also need a larger engine, but for economic reasons have to choose small and more dangerous cars that do not meet the family’s needs. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes an average reduction in the one-off charge of 20 pst. as a first step towards achieving a level of charges in line with the average in Europe. The party also wants to lower other taxes on the car and car use such as the fuel taxes, the annual tax and the re-registration fee. Norway has an innumerable amount of more or less well-founded fees. Some have a historical justification, some are justified for environmental reasons, while others are purely fiscal. The Progress Party believes that the Government should take a review with a view to removing the unwarranted fees that are of little economic importance, increasing bureaucracy and, in general, irritating most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1555	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1558	The Progress Party is more concerned with distributing SEK 1.5 billion in tax relief to the richest people in this country than with giving tax relief to those who earn the least or who have the lowest pension income. The Progress Party will provide the 3,000 richest with the highest income a tax relief of on average NOK 190 000. In fact, there are more in tax reliefs to these 3,000 richest than what those with the lowest total income earn and have to live on. My question to the representative Monsen is: Who is the priority of the Progress Party? Are there the 3,000 with the very high incomes, or are there the hundreds of thousands with the lowest incomes? The working party proposes to increase the tax deduction from NOK 900 to NOK 1800 in the case of the union quota. That means about NOK 300 in tax relief for each employee. It's the Progress Party against it. And even though the Progress Party says they agree to lower taxes, they are against lowering taxes in this area. The Progress Party is opposed to the organisation of workers, and they want to return to the time when people stood by and had to ask for supplements and professional rights. My question to Mr Monsen's representative is: what is the reason why the Advance Party is for tax relief for those who give gifts to, for example, the fishing club but against those who pay the union quota having the same tax deduction rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1578	I became a little uncertain about what was the question here, but it finally appeared. I perceived that there were a number of allegations about the policy of the Progress Party that were most incorrect. I'll take some of that. First of all, it's about tax relief to the richest. I assume that it is targeted at the dividend tax. In fact, it is unusually important for Norwegian businesses that there is no double taxation on dividends. First of all, we need risk capital in Norway. Secondly, it is completely unreasonable – and not only that; it is also stupid – to discriminate against money in the bank and money invested in business. That is why it is important that we get rid of this tax, which was also the plan in the budgetary agreement. Had the Workers' Party been involved in tax relief for the poor, they would probably have supported the arrangement of the Advance Party, because it is actually better for them with the least income than the Workers' Party itself has provided. With regard to the deduction of the union quota, we believe that it is much more important for the trade unions to receive tax relief than this special deduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1585	First, I would like to stress that the Progress Party has an economic policy that is very good in many ways. Tax relief, privatisation and modernisation of the public sector are measures to improve growth and value creation, both in private and in public. Here, the Progress Party is well in line with the economic basis of the Cooperation Government, and in this area, hopefully, the Government's budget proposal is a change of course which is also a good reading for the Progress Party. However, the main message from the Progress Party of the election campaign has also been to increase the use of oil money and to break the rule of action for the use of oil wealth. Such policies will increase inflationary pressures and interest rates. It has consequences. 1 pst. interest rate increase will be for a household with 1 million. kr in debt, i.e. NOK 10000 in increased interest rate. For enterprises, the financial costs and the level of interest rates are a very important factor, and for municipalities, which have DKK 80 billion in debt, 1 pst. interest is 800 million. kr in increased expenditure. The high level of interest rates is therefore unsocial, and it also prevents growth in the economy. There is unison agreement between the economic disciplines that violations of the rule of action will lead to an increase in interest rates. There is also unison agreement in banks and the analysis environments of brokerage companies that increased use of oil money will increase interest rates. And we can actually observe the nervousness of the interest rate market as the uncertainty of a breach of the rule of action increases. Then I just want to ask the representative Monsen if he can name a single professional economist who benefits from the Advance Party's use of oil money, that this does not affect the level of interest. And if both the market and the trade unions expect a weakened budget balance to bring inflationary pressures, what does the representative Monsen think will happen to interest rates if implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1596	This will, in a way, appear in the disc from the last budgetary procedure. We've heard of accountability. The working party has defined itself in a way as the responsible lot. It is the responsibility of the working party at all times — including in relation to the use of oil money. Now it turns out that the Government has in a way taken over the Workers' Party's definition. The Government also defines the Workers' Party as the responsible at all times. The Progress Party also agrees that increased interest rates are unsocial. But what we've seen in recent years, where we've been talking about tight budgets, accountability and interest rate cuts, has led to the opposite. We've basically got interest rate rises.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1605	It's one thing that I've heard of the dullness of the public debate, and that's how terrible it is with this double taxation of dividends. But it can't be other than the right side with its inherent fear of paying taxes that seem to be more important to count how many times you pay a tax, than how much you actually pay. 28 pst. are paid in the enterprises, and then 11 pst is paid. in dividend taxation. That would give at the base of 37 pst. tax, and it's still less than the tax paid by ordinary people who pay top taxes, which is 28 pst. plus a social security fee plus 13,5 pst. in top taxes. I am happy to pay 1 pst. tax ten times than to pay 40 pst. taxes once. It shows that this is just a linguistic cover-up from the right to hide that what we're doing is to give tax relief to the rich – first of all. If the Advance Party votes in favour of the Government's budget, it must mean that it seems more important to pay tax on dividends to those who earn the most than to give tax relief to those who earn less. This budget will, of course, lead to greater economic differences between people in Norway. Then my question is, how can the Progress Party after this call itself a party to people most?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1614	I have said a few words earlier about this with tax on dividend dividends. It is important that dividends are taxed in enterprises. But in the case of 28 pst., there is actually a difference between labour income and income on shares, in the sense that those who have a share income do not receive a pension. They do not receive any pension entitlements. The social security fee is not included. Nor is there any contradiction between giving tax relief to those with high incomes and those with low incomes. Now it's not always the case that those who have shares have high incomes. There are very many small savers who also have share income, so I don't see any contradiction here. With regard to capital for business, I also said that it is important that we do not tax the income of shares differently than we tax the income of other capital. There is no wish for those who are interested in Norwegian business, for those who have capital to put this money in the bank instead of investing them in business – and bank deposits do not have this extra tax. It was said from one of the SV’s speakers here today that we had too little risk capital in Norway – and this must be a way of getting it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-27.ana.ud44e1625	The cord shift is over. The President will propose that this morning's sitting be cancelled, and that the debates start again at 9 p.m. 6:00 p.m. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
