ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e57	The representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, André Kvakkestad, Julie Christiansen, Morten Højlund, Ågot Valle, Leif Lund, Asmund Kristoffersen, Ivar Østberg, Arne Lyngstad and Gunn Karin Gjul, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Socialist Left Party Group to the representative Heidi Sørensen from 17 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Akhtar Chaudhry, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e108	Akhtar Chaudhry is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e122	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1165]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e138	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1165]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e154	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1166]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e169	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1166]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e185	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1166]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e201	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e210	Essentially, it is an overall committee that adheres to the main conclusions of St.prp. No 24, which is currently available for treatment. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure related to the general budget of the European Communities for the financial year 2001 under the auspices of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the expansion, construction and operation of the Kristin field, the budgetary implications of the partial privatisation of Statoil and compensation at the end of the expansion of the Beiarn, Bjellåga and Melfjord. The Socialist Left Party and the Progressive Party have somewhat different comments in relation to the majority position. SV also promotes its own minority proposal. These parties themselves will make their views known. Statoil was partially privatised and listed on 18 June of the current year. A large majority stood behind this. The budgetary changes outlined in the proposal are a direct consequence of the decisions taken at that time. On 9 May, the new public limited liability company Petoro AS was formed to manage the SØE portfolio on behalf of the State, and on 14 May the new transport company for the transport of natural gas Gassco AS was formed. Private shareholders have purchased 18.2 pst. of the shares in Statoil, and the Government is now preparing the sale of SEDØE shares to Norwegian Hydro and other companies, corresponding to 6,5 pst. of the value of the DEVICE portfolio. Total government expenditure related to the sub-privatisation of Statoil ASA is estimated at 336.5 million. kr. The majority of these expenditures have not previously been requested, and the Ministry of Oil and Energy is therefore asking for a supplementary carry-over of 326 million. kr on cap. 1801 item 21, Restructuring of the country’s petroleum exposure. The Committee agrees with the Ministry's request and other proposals for balancing on the budget chapters and items set out in the proposal. The expansion, construction and operation of the Kristin field represents significant investments, but also significant reserves for gas and condensate. The overall investment framework is estimated at DKK 15.9 billion. The project has been impact-examined, and the proposal refers to comments received and comments made by the Ministry. The Ministry’s assessments of the hearing opinions do not indicate that the project should not be approved. The majority share this view. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, indicate that the Kristin field is a field of high pressure and high temperatures, and that for this reason one faces special health, environmental and safety challenges. The majority are therefore pleased that this should be central to the design of the technical solutions for the Kristin field. Furthermore, the statement of objections raised by the SFT in its consultation response to the Ministry points out the importance of non-hazardous fishing and environmental considerations. In this context, the majority of the Committee emphasises in particular the work on dumping rock in the pipeline. The Committee is committed to finding good solutions related to the power supply in the Kristin field. It is therefore underlined that the builders are asked to consider alternative gas solutions and that shore-connected electrification will bring significant environmental benefits. The majority further emphasise the importance of finding solutions to reduced CO2 problems, and therefore ask the developers to follow up on new knowledge in this area in cooperation with the research communities. The proposition also deals with the development of Beiarn, Bjøllåga and Melfjord. The latter was known to have stopped in the spring of 2000, triggering claims for compensation to Statkraft, Nordland County Council and Red Island Municipality. The Committee does not comment on the above-mentioned compensations to Statkraft and Nordland County, but is concerned that the municipality of Rødøy has come out unluckily as a result of the closure of the extension. Red-Eye municipality had no reason to believe that the expansion would not be realized. The majority of the population and the department stopped plans after the deadline for applying for compensation expired. The situation of the municipality is therefore, in the opinion of the Committee, special, also in relation to other municipalities which have received compensation for the corresponding scrapping of development projects. The Committee is therefore of the opinion that a new assessment and, where appropriate, further compensation to the municipality of Red Island would be natural, without creating precedent in relation to other municipalities and matters. I therefore refer to the motion for a resolution. Furthermore, I would like to refer to the Roman Numeral Decision which is now to be subsequently reclassified on the representatives' tables, which has come to an end as a formality and an exclusion from the proposition. This concerns the role of Petoro in the development and operation of the Kristin field, where Petoro is responsible for the interests of the state. It will be Decision IV and will be distributed on the tables of representatives. I also refer to the position and recommend it on the basis of the majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e240	The representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e243	The Kristin field is a very interesting extension project. However, this expansion will also pose very special challenges as it faces a field of particularly high pressure and high temperatures, which has already been discussed by the rapporteur. However, I am pleased that a large majority of the Committee supports the development of the field. The question of running electricity from land until this project has been discussed, but it seems that such possible electrification will increase the cost by approximately NOK 1 billion, and this of course cannot be charged to the project. On the basis of this, the Progress Party does not agree with the majority opinion in which a request builder assesses whether alternative solutions should be available and indicates that this will, of course, reduce the profitability of the project. Then to the changes in the current year's budget. The size is dealt with in the spring session St.meld. No 37 for 2001-2002 on hydropower and power balance. A large majority decided to put an effective stop to future hydropower deployment in Norway, despite the fact that in recent years we have lacked both power and power in the network. This, in turn, has meant that we have had to import power from our neighbouring country, for example. highly polluting coal power from Denmark. The Progress Party proposed to allow some more hydropower expansion, although this will not have a significant environmental impact on nature. We therefore supported expansion in the Salt Mountain/Black Lake area, but with a somewhat more gentle extension option for Beiarn. We were well-known alone to support these expansion projects, and they were therefore stopped. One of the consequences of stopping these projects is that the municipalities affected are placed in a special situation in the light of the high expectations created in terms of income, employment and industrial development. The municipality of Rødøy supported the development of Melfjord, and therefore this municipality should receive compensation for the lack of development. I am therefore satisfied that a joint committee asks the Government to reconsider the matter of compensation to Redøy, and that one finds a solution that will lie within the economic framework that has been in force for this scheme. Finally, I would like to remind you that this issue would have been avoided if the Stortinge had supported the Progress Party's proposal for development.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e256	SV is the only party that opposes the expansion of the Kristin field. When the media have not taken a greater interest in the matter, I am almost tempted to believe that this is due to an unusual case of lack of creativity in relation to the possibilities of tabloidization. Unfortunately, the scheduled speaking time in this case in no way reflects the attention it deserves. For the sake of today's timetable, the chairperson of the committee has taken on the job of presenting the majority's position, a majority consisting of all the parties in the committee, with the exception of SV. I should have liked to have commented on several elements in this comprehensive case, for example that it has been used close to NOK 1 billion for consulting services in connection with the privatisation of Statoil. But we don't want to run a rematch against the privatisation and sale of SøE shares, even if it could have been tempting – especially in the light of the Workers' Party's zeal in the budget debate after giving Statoil instructions in relation to gas pricing. First, they privatize the company, and then wish to return to the past, as the Minister of Oil and Energy was unique to the General Assembly of Statoil. I'll leave this part. But I would like to say that I think it is strange that a case involving investments of NOK 16 billion has not been found worthy of being treated as a matter of its own. Because it would have deserved it. While all the other parties still want to give full gas in connection with the expansion of the Kristin field at the Haltenbanken, we are in SV only about our proposal, which I would like to raise, that the Stortinget asks the Government to carry out a new review of the expansion, construction and operation of Kristin in order to make Kristin more environmentally-friendly and climate-friendly, with the aim of wholesale treatment in April to May 2002. The background to the proposal is inter alia: the objections raised by both the SFT and the Marine Research Institute for the project. However, it is primarily due to a desire to further assess the feasibility of building a so-called CO2-free gas power plant on the Kristin platform, in addition to further consideration of any other power supply solutions. If our proposal for a postponement of the case against presumption should fall, we would like to vote in favour of our proposal that the Stortinget ask the Government to facilitate the construction of a pilot plant for so-called CO2-free gas power plants in the Kristin field. This is something the Sem-mates have put a lot of emphasis on. And in this case, the SV government parties offer a majority of CO2-free gas power. Last week an OECD report was presented that was clear in its recommendation that Norway needs to increase the effectiveness of its environmental policy and that the challenge for Norway in the future will be to demonstrate that it can meet its domestic and international environmental obligations, even if it is not critical to its own environment. For example, the OECD has pointed out that over 90 pst. the NOx emissions are derived from the extraction and use of energy. The growth of these emissions in the 1990s helped Norway to fail to meet its international environmental commitments in this area. The CO2 emissions from energy use and production increased by around 19 pst. during the 1990s, and the OECD recommends that we implement clear and cost-effective measures to reduce both NOx and CO2 emissions, in particular from the oil and gas sectors. It is quite clear that we are facing a tough challenge in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and that is something we in SV are very concerned about. Not least, we think it is important to focus on this in a situation where the Storting will soon ratify the Kyoto Agreement and that we will deal with a climate notification in the next six months. I have a legitimate suspicion that the majority in this room will once again ignore the alarm bells calling for our international environmental performance. There are a lot of fine words from the Government that we have to use so-called CO2-free technology for gas power plants. Statoil is now also running advertising campaigns about how good they are at CO2-free gas power on Sleipner West, where it is also producing natural gas, or fossil gas, as they say in Sweden. So we want primarily to go into the matter so that the matter is put at risk. Secondaryly, we will vote for the Government to facilitate CO2-free technology in the Kristin field. If these proposals fall, I will signal that we in SV will vote for the vote, even if we go against the Kristin field, as this is a matter of a number of budgetary adjustments and Kristin is not promoted as a matter of his own.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e279	Ingvild Vaggen Malvik has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e282	I'm going to be pretty short. In principle, I will refer to the comments of the committee leader and his explanation that we should not have any debate here in the Chamber. But I still find reason to take the floor now to correct a claim and an untruth that has come from this pulpit several times, namely that the Workers' Party should have intended that one should instruct Statoil in relation to the sale of gas. It does not result in correctness, and it has repeatedly been rejected from the Workers' Party. But we feel like we need to do it again, and we're going to do it every time this untruth is introduced, because it won't be any more true because if it repeats it multiple times.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e289	The government enters this proposition to expand the Kristin field, which is a gas and condensate field in the Norwegian Sea. The expansion will lead to great value creation and lead to major and important tasks for the supplier industry, while the environmental conditions are well maintained in the Government’s opinion. The development of Kristin will have economic repercussions both during the deployment phase and during the operating period. The operator of the Kristin field has calculated the total national employment effects of the expansion of the Kristin field to approximately 16000 annual works. In addition, indirect employment effects occur. The supply of gas from Kristin will be an important contribution to fulfilling the Norwegian gas sales obligations during a period when it is expected to be a relatively tight balance between entered into gas sales obligations and the supply capacity of Norwegian cap. The European gas market is growing rapidly and this growth is expected to continue. The development of Kristin is an important contribution to strengthening our position as gas sellers to Europe. As several speakers have pointed out, the Kristin field is a high-pressure and high-temperature field, one which faces particularly major health, environmental and safety challenges. Therefore, these conditions are particularly important in the design of the technical solutions. Significant efforts have been made to reduce emissions to air and water from the Kristin platform. In order to reduce energy consumption, an effective process has been highlighted on the platform. From what I have said here, it is obvious that the expansion of the Kristin field is a major and important extension. The rapid examination by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection of the Landfill Proposition on Kristin Development contributes to the provision of additional Norwegian gas to the European market from the autumn of 2005. I therefore thank both the Council of State and the Committee for its effective consideration of this matter. Another important issue in this proposition concerns the compensation for the scrapping of the Beiarn, Bjellåga and Melfjord extensions. It is gratifying that the Stortinge joins the Government's proposal to provide State Power and Nordland with compensation for the economic losses associated with the cutting-off of the power projects. It ensures that the responsibilities of the parties concerned are tidy. I noticed, of course, that Stortinget asked the Government to reconsider the matter of compensation for the municipality of Rødøy as a special case within the compensation scheme for municipalities for non-development. The scheme is administered by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. I just want to make it clear that this is a scheme that the Storting itself has decided to abolish. But, of course, we are going to use the legislation and assessment criteria laid down in the already closed scheme as a precondition for compensation to the Red Municipality and within the financial framework that has been applicable to this scheme. I have also noticed, of course, the rapporteur's deepening of the Committee's overall view on this matter. I understand that the Committee has supported this matter. I just want to stress that the Ministry of Oil and Energy has not had such an opportunity to admit compensation on the criteria that the municipality of Redøy has used to base its expectations, but we will, of course, follow up the Storting recommendation as it is now available in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e308	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e311	The OECD has been clear in its speech that Norway needs a more effective environmental policy. As I said before, CO2 emissions to energy and production increased by about 19 pst. during the 1990s. Clearly, we are facing a tough challenge in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. That's something I guess the Council of State agrees with me that it's important to do something about it. That's why we in SV want it to be possible for the Kristin field to be equipped for a pilot plant for CO2-free gas power – as Statoil runs advertising campaigns on the grounds that they are so good at doing. But it is possible that the Government has other plans for pilot plants for so-called CO2-free gas power. Another thing that I could also imagine asking the Council of State questions about is whether the Council of State thinks it is appropriate to have spent about NOK 1 billion on the privatisation of Statoil and the sale of SøE shares. We have therefore suggested that the Government review the construction, construction and operation of Kristin in order to make the field more environmentally friendly and climate friendly. What is the reason why the Council of State does not want better time to meet the environmental and climate objectives of the Sem Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e323	I want to give Ingvild the Vaggen Malvik praise for the commitment to producing CO2-free gas power plants. The representative and the Council of State are fully in line. With regard to this important matter, the representative is also sure to know the sample set up by my predecessor, the Gas Technology Committee. I have chosen to continue the sample, with a slightly changed mandate, and it is due on 1 March next year. There will be the alternative options that can also be used in relation to pilot installations, or demonstration facilities. I also remind you that the Government has started work on a so-called cooperation programme between the authorities and industry in order to provide new technologies that can give us CO2-free gas power plants, and also use natural gas in other environmentally friendly ways. In the case of a demonstration facility in connection with the Kristin project, my and the Ministry’s assessment are that the technology for such a pilot plant for CO2 free gas power plants is unlikely to be available within the period of the Kristin project’s development. It is simply because of the fact that the most mature technology, the one available to the Kristin field, requires significant areas and cannot, for practical reasons, be tested on the offshore installations to serve the Kristin field. At least we have as a common objective, the representative Vaggen Malvik and I, that we should have a pressure on these matters. I can assure the representative that as the Council of State I will come back to Stortinget with this. With regard to the budgetary implications of the structuring of Statoil, I remind you that here the Stortinget has seen all the documents, taken all the decisions. What's in the effusion now is just a logical follow-up of decisions already taken in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e338	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e343	The Coastal Party is not represented in the Energy and Environment Committee, but it will support the majority position put forward. The Coastal Party is particularly pleased that the Municipality of Rødøy has won its argument to the Committee by gaining an understanding of their requirements for the cessation of Melfjord development. The stoppage of the Melfjord expansion was announced in a very unfortunate way, in the new year to the Prime Minister, without notice to the municipality. Red Island City wanted this expansion. That is why I agree with the proposal that lies there. I also agree with the Progress Party, which said that this expansion should be carried out. We're of the same opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e352	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1166]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e360	The size then goes to voting in case No. 1–6 on today’s map, no. 31.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e630	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Mr Vaggen Malvik, on behalf of the Socialist Left-wing Party, No. 3, from Brother Ynge Rahm on behalf of the Committee The President noted that proposal No. 3 has been submitted after the prescribed deadline, but the President will nevertheless recommend that the Storting accept the proposal for consideration and vote on it. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Ingvild Vaggen Malvik – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e644	I would ask the SV's group to vote as follows: first, for the postponement proposal, which has been distributed in the Chamber. Should that fall, we have a subsidiary proposal that is reflected in the suspension, where we ask the Government to facilitate the construction of a pilot plant for so-called CO2-free gas power plants in the Kristin field. If it should fall against assumption, SV's group will vote for the setting. I would also like to signal that we will support the proposal by the committee leader.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e651	The President took the view that proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, in reality is a postponement proposal, and takes it up to voting first. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to review the expansion, construction and operation of the Kristin field with a view to making the Kristin field more environment-friendly and climate-friendly, with a focus on landfill treatment in April/May 2002.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e668	Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the construction of a pilot plant for so-called CO2-free gas power plants in the Kristin field.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e683	Then the President will vote on proposal No. 3, from Brother Yngve Rahm, on behalf of the Committee, together with his opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e1358	The proposal reads as follows: ‘IVStorting agrees that Petoro AS, the rightholder of the participation of the State, [[State's direct economic exposure — DEATH]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-17.ana.ud2522e1380	There is no record.
