ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e38	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1814]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e50	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Falch 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group, and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e61	The Industry Committee visited Hydro's management on 28 March last year. It has been known that all members of the Committee expressed deep dissatisfaction and concern about the plans to sell Hydro Seafood to non-resident owners. This industry is too important — and will become even more important and more central later — for the flagships to be launched was refuted. So this consensus was well used to take the necessary steps in that matter and to ensure the desired ownership in an industry that everyone believes and wants it to be invested in. No! No! Only England refused to approve the Hydro Seafood sale. In Norway, there is a rapid concentration of ownership with several listings. We may experience that the coastal zone can be sold in good time according to the stock exchange rules, without leadings that ensure local ownership or local gains from the value creation, which we hope will be doubled in 20 years. I think it'll be a historic step if there's not soon to be a regulation that ensures local build-up of skills, capital and jobs in the areas where natural resources are used. I'm sorry to have to use such capitals to remind you of the gravity of the situation. I don't know anyone who wants us to be without a fisheries policy, oil policy or hydropower policy – which had meant free of foreign purchases and exploitation of natural resources. Banana Republic is the word used for such conditions. We don't have to align ourselves with the new exploitation of the coastal zone, which to those degrees is common to the first right of those who live by the sea. The centre party will support strong public commitment to research and development in existing and new aquaculture industries. I have noticed the recording of Norway's geological survey in the evening post on 1 February, highlighting the importance of surveying the seabed for nutritional purposes. Such studies will extend the concept of aquaculture. It is important that such studies and measurements in order to identify environmental conditions in a broad sense are carried out quickly. The centre party wants a maximum owner limit of 10 pst. of the concessions in one hand. If we think of a time-lapse of the number of locations, that means that one company can have as many locations as we have today. If larger units are needed to serve customers, this can be achieved through cooperation. It would be wise for the Council of State to grant new concessions after what the Stortinge has recently said in the Statkorn case: first to the small ones so that everyone gets equivalent three concessions, then some for recruitment and training, then to good areas with little farming. There is no doubt that all the tiny companies need to improve their operating base. The centre party considers it essential that local ownership is required in the new concessions – not least in order to obtain local goodwill during a strong growth period. Local ownership also ensures that the majority municipality receives income and exciting jobs, which are a prerequisite for a better recruitment than at present. Local ownership of small companies does not need to prevent cooperation needed for development, sales, etc. Own-initiative cooperation with the big ones can also be thought of, but limited by total ownership to 10 pst. of the total volume of rearing. The centre party will grant new concessions free of charge and any remuneration will be paid on resale. The amount of the consideration may be reduced to zero after, for example: 20 years of ownership. We believe that the remuneration and any area charges should go to the municipality. We will warn against setting new charges based on the price situation that has been in recent months. It will be better for well-established parts of the industry to allocate funds to product development, sales, etc. instead of imposing a public charge which requires the State to grant the same money for the necessary measures. It is positive that the Government will maintain the concession scheme, inter alia: to control the volume of production, as is the system of flexible feed quotas based on monitoring of the carrying capacity of the site. Monitoring of fishing density in the mermaids and thereby animal health and animal welfare could naturally be combined with this. It will be very exciting to follow how increasing consumer focus on production will affect farming as well. With the strong commitment of aquaculture industries in the broad sense that we now agree on, the coordinated industrial policy and legislation of the State councils are needed. However, there is a greater urgency in establishing rules that ensure an ‘anti-banana development’, which ensure that the growth of a large-scale joint effort primarily benefits the coast and those who live there, and that we can spend a lot of oil money in a way that makes us less oil addicts in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e92	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e95	The center party says they're busy with local ownership and the small companies. If you go back and look at the success story of this industry – because it must be allowed to call this a success story – it is not least because one in the start-up phase had a great freedom where entrepreneurs could take advantage of this freedom locally to allow the industry to grow. Unfortunately, one in retrospect has felt that this industry also has new restrictions, new laws, new taxes and new rules to deal with. Does not Morten Lund also think that it would be much easier for the little man, for the individual in the community, to establish and start in this industry if one had received a red tape, reduced fees and made this less regulated than it is today? I would like an answer to that question. Then Morten Lund, on the same line as Right, is also concerned that the value creation that happens in the communities is going to benefit the communities. But now the Central Party will turn its attention to the tax system and go back in order for corporate taxation to get something to say in individual communities. Instead of introducing new taxes and new ways of collecting money into a community, it would probably be much easier to change the corporate tax so that the incomes of the municipalities benefited, not only for this industry, but also for all the other industries that generate value in individual communities. So the last question to the Central Party, which is obviously concerned with this industry, is: how will the views of the Central Party on the EEA Agreement affect the market access of this industry to its main area?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e106	When this industry started, some entrepreneurs were in the front line. And I probably agree that if we had had so many restrictions on starting up the time we've had later, we wouldn't have started. But I have also talked to some of the entrepreneurs I know personally, who are terribly sorry for the development that has happened later, where it is free for them with the most money. That it's worth $30 million. kr for a breeding concession that a person receives free of charge from society, they do not have a sense of it. They do not feel that large companies are coming and setting up the small businesses they were involved in, both for the farms themselves and for slaughterhouses, which provided important jobs, and which the large companies say are not good enough, despite the fact that it was the small companies both on the farm side and on the slaughter side that proved to be the most effective. But that didn't fit in the system of the big ones. The founders I know have wanted more local demands for ownership and less of the development against stock exchange that we have seen. I have not seen in the Business Committee a single enquiry from anyone who wants the policy that the Right supports, that we should end the concession scheme, and that there should be more freedom for those who want to move on to the stock exchange as quickly as possible, and I do not think anyone else has received such enquiries. I also want to remind you that it was when the melt part of this industry was deregulated, that we got into the major disease problems that took the crack at a lot of people. With regard to the taxation of companies for the benefit of local communities, the Central Party's new electoral programme, which has not yet been approved, says that we want the corporate tax to become municipal again. We were thinking about that time that it was changed, and we have got a lot of reactions to it as it was at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e115	I have seen that the representative Morten Lund among others. in writing. - (SV) the press has shown that the presentation of fisheries policy in several areas has been of little practical value, including: in the case of whom new concessions are to be granted. In his statement, the Minister for Fisheries said: ‘At the same time as the aquaculture industry is becoming increasingly important to coastal communities, we see a concentration of interests that results in the accumulation of exclusive rights to operate salmon and trout sport among fewer operators. This does not contribute to the necessary diversity of the industry. Therefore, in the near future, I will lay down general rules for the restriction of ownership of salmon and trout." Does the representative Morten Lund disagree with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e127	I agree that we should have restrictions on ownership, and I believe that the Council of State, in its statement in Stortinget, could be specific about what he wants. We saw in the media the day before that he talked about that one company could own 20 pst. of future concessions. That is, if we get a tidal sample of the number of locations that we have today – we have 2,000 today, and let's say we get 20,000 – then one company has to be able to sit with 4,000 locations, that is, twice what we have today – apparently exceptionally, the council has said. I think he should now be able to determine from the hearings that have been held, that the biggest ones will find themselves in some limitations, too, so that we can achieve a balanced development and a scattered ownership here, which at least the people of the coast will have. He did not mention any number at all, so I think he could have been more specific. Then we read in the media that the director of the SND goes out and says that the ownership restriction proposed in the regulation that the Council of State has consulted is harmful to the industry – so it is the director of the government's tool for industrial development in the districts that says it. I have not seen that he has received any corrections from any government councils. In other words, SND does not distinguish between the value creation of production in the districts and the value creation of companies. I think that should have been pointed out by the Council of State. Otherwise, I think the Council of State should be able to say who is going to get new concessions, as the Workers' Party, together with a majority in the Stortinget, said in the vote on Statkorn, that it is the smallest that should have it. He said something about the least, if they needed it to get a good development, they could get it. I think he should now be able to say that so we've heard what the majority of the Storting says about who's going to have the new concessions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e136	I want to follow up on the line from Karin Kjølmoen about this with ownership regulation in the salmon farming industry. There has been a hearing there, and it is a little alarming when the chairman of the committee designates SND in the way he does – SND, which should be among the most resource-intensive in the instrument that is represented throughout the country. I have here a notice in the Evening Post of 24 January, where it is said by SND that there is a lot of ‘Unfortunately, the farming industry is subject to stricter regulations than other sectors in Norway and to stricter rules than those in the competing countries’. Even LO Industry says the same thing. I know that the Center Party has been very concerned about these questions, and I would like to have this clarified. Are these professional bodies, which represent both large tool values and very many jobs in Norway, quite contrary to the views of the Centre party in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e146	In my opinion, the farming industry has not been harmed by the government that has been operating over the years. The worst times in the farming industry are when there has been deregulation, and I have mentioned one example of it. Another case where it has been shown that there was too little governance was when the EU found out that they had to impose criminal duties. I have also heard that representatives of the industry have said that what was the result of the process, the export charge that was imposed, has benefited us, because we have been able to use it jointly for export promotion measures. And I think the industry has been very capable of getting to that very part of the business, reaching out to new markets, which makes them no longer so dependent on one big market, or another big market. Also in the case of the United States, they are able to develop other products that are not affected by the export restrictions. And I think we're going to see that in the future as well. There are some who are willing to use innumerable export restrictions and instruments to prevent our industry, and then the industry has to be flexible, find ways of doing it. I think it is quite easy to see that if the policy of the Advance Party in the field of aquaculture had been implemented – what they wanted most is a complete deregulation – then there would be big, big problems. We would get a completely different business out in the districts than what we have today. We would see less positive development than what we're doing now. In the future, we are willing to use large public funds to make this industry better, to bring about greater value creation. We must also be willing to govern this so that the result of the creation of the value will benefit the community and those who live almost the mercenaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e158	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e161	Marine farming is a multiplicity of possibilities. We're on the threshold at a time when we're going to use the sea in whole new ways, and we're going to develop the ways we use the sea. To do this, we should be able to realize the values that are present and wait for the right actors. There are several research environments that have claimed that over the next 20 to 30 years, we can increase the value creation from the sea to 200 billion dollars a year plus/minus. Today we export fish for about 30 billion dollars, so the increase is formidable. If we want to close with this value creation, we have to make choices. We have to ask questions like, How are we going to use the sea? What do we use the sea for? Who should use the sea? To date, we have had market prospects that have guided our development of aquaculture, as it is largely salmon and aure that we have talked about on a large scale. With the use of feed quotas and a restrictive concession policy, it has been difficult, not to say advice, for new actors to enter. We have difficult market conditions when it comes to our largest market, the EU, and it is important to address the barriers to trade in the future, not least by giving priority to the fisheries-related aspects of WTO developments in the future. We can make different choices when it comes to objectives for the development of the aquaculture industry in the future. First of all, I would like to stress that we have to follow the tolerance of the sea. Success factor number one is our ability to produce pure food based on the ocean and our ability to use the entire raw material. Then the environmental question becomes decisive. May we see an own hate department taking shape in a few years. Our own actions have consequences, but our behaviour patterns in the international community have consequences for us. It is easy to get the impression that aquaculture is about salmon and aure. There is an out-of-office limit. We're at the beginning of a breeding adventure that can be at least as large as these species. These are cod, halibut, echinoderms, shells, hums, oysters and crayfish, and probably also several species. But we have to eyeball that we can't really really break through most of these areas. The really big success factor when it comes to salmon and aure is research. Success is knowledge-based. This means that one of the most important answers is research, research, research. The size has determined that marine research should be a forward bet. It's going to be our common task to show that we really believe it when the annual budgets are going to be dealt with. The industry itself needs to increase its efforts monthly. There is reason to follow closely the results of the recently introduced R & D fee to see what results it can give. There is no reason to point to the results we have received before sea grazing such as this. The bet on the release of lobsters. Here it has to increase the bet to really get to the goal, and we have to build on the environments that have shown that they have the ability and the will to get somewhere. We have to close the barrage this time, but then we have to deal with the algal poison situation in our fjords. There is also a need for increased effort here. Bioprospecting is another aspect of the farm. Here we are at the beginning of the beginning. Probably there are unexpected possibilities here, because the sea is the largest repo bank we have. This requires qualified actors who understand what questions need to be asked and who have the ability to search for answers. Furthermore, coastal zone planning becomes a central theme. We have good space, and at present marine use is taking hold in very limited areas, but as coastal zone values become more and more visible, there will be a greater pressure. We can take care of the different interests if we plan well now. It is not an insignificant person to care for the farm. Therefore, it is important to establish that we have a differentiated structure and a differentiated ownership. It is not possible for those living along the coast to be excluded from the values that lie there, and for those who spend money, but do not want to live in our coastal communities, to take all the cake. Therefore, we need to put in place the rules of ownership so that we can keep up the deficiency in the industry. A theme that needs to be highlighted is that the female part of the food industry is reduced from 15 pst. in 1994 to 7.6 p.m. in 1999. That's not gonna work. If the marine potential is to be activated, active action must be taken on recruitment. More women than men take higher education. Many of these women have no current job to return to in District Norway. When farming, which is a district industry, sees such a negative trend in the female sector, it has to be used as a separate instrument. Many of the women taking higher education have relevant education in relation to investment in aquaculture. I would therefore like to work to ensure that the women's perspective is taken into account in the award of new breeding concessions in due course. We've come a long way, and we can show success in terms of salmon and aure, but we have enormous possibilities ahead of us. These possibilities must be put into practice, and I'll say we have to be impatient. As we find the new answers, it is also important that we find the new questions to find new answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e184	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e187	It is true that the proportion of women has fallen from 1994 to 1999, and that is negative for the industry. I appreciate the signaling of the fact that the women's perspective should also be taken into account in the award of concessions. But another idea is that the mode of operation in this industry may not be so attractive to women, and maybe we should think about the way we organize this industry, that it should also be attractive to women. Traditionally, women do not have many management positions in large groups and enterprises. I also want to bring up another thing. Before Christmas, the centre parties and the Workers' Party were together to say no to the auctioning of concessions. We also put up a priority order where the new actors, that is, the uncreated businesses, were to be given priority first, and then those who have one and two concessions. I want to ask if the Labour Party is still on that priority. Some of the discussion has gone on that we thought the entrance ticket for this industry should not be for animals. And then we have also picked this up from the Christian People's Party with a second fee. Is the Workers' Party considered a measure that should be considered to reduce the entrance ticket to this important industry? And then it might also be able to focus on women.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e196	The Minister for Fisheries has made it clear, on several occasions, that the priorities underpinned by the award of new concessions for the round to be held are to follow the agreements that have been made, and he has made it quite clear that there are new players and those with one to two concessions that are given priority. What's important to us in the future is to hold on to a system that will grant concessions in the years to come. Many of those who join now, who think they have legitimate demands and good projects, are going to be disappointed. So I think that our task here in the Storting must also be that we show that there are more possibilities in aquaculture. I want to hit an stroke for an expression that says you should come to the moth first, you have to sympathize with the stream. I would say that if everyone is to sympathize with the current against the breeding concessions for salmon and aure, there may be a lot of opportunities to be founders, to be part of a similar adventure that salmon and aure nutrients have been so far. When it comes to the women's part, I would argue that it's not primarily for the women's part that it's important to take such a grip, but it's for the breeding industry's part that it's important to facilitate more women's coming along. There will be a need for labour. And when there are more women than men taking higher education, it's clear that a very large potential for this industry will be lost if these women don't get the chance to come to the mill. They can do so by virtue of their own knowledge and competence, but since it is very human-dominated – especially at the top – in this industry today, it is difficult, everyone knows. If we want that to change, we also have to make some changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e207	I listened with interest to the Workers' Party's fisheries policy spokespersons and in many ways fully agreed with what she said when it came to the potential of Norwegian aquaculture industry. She was in charge of amounts that both the Research Council, NTNU and others have presented as possible to this industry when we look a few years ahead. She mentioned an amount of NOK 200 billion. But if we're going to achieve these objectives, we can't jump over what's the most central question, which this industry is concerned with, and which we, as a nation, have to be concerned about if we're going to help lift this industry along with the possibilities of the coast up and up in the direction of the ambitions we're putting. There is market access for Norwegian fishing industries abroad. We know that Norwegian aquaculture exports about 95 pst. of its total production. Today we are almost a pure commodity exporter, at least it is that part of the product that dominates our exports. We have a very low level of processing, and it is quite clear that if we are to achieve the goal that everyone is talking about so beautifully, we need to improve the conditions in the market for Norwegian seafood, namely access – with the possibilities that this has. My question to the Workers' Party's spokeswoman is: What kind of approach does the Workers' Party actually have to the salmon agreement with the EU, which expires next June? Is it to be settled that it should continue as it is today? Or do you have bigger and tighter ambitions towards reaching the amounts you talk about so beautifully in your speech of the Minister for Fisheries?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e218	I want to say first of all that I'm very happy that there are so many people here in the Stortinget who are busy with Norway's market access when it comes to fish. When we have so much fish and we're going to be so big in breeding, there's at least one thing that's clear: we can't consume all of these fish themselves. That is why labour with the market is crucial, and the EU is failing in all of our largest market. It must be a point for us to make us less dependent on the EU market. Personally, I am of the opinion that we should have turned even more towards other markets and developed them. I think that the fish export selection is doing a great job in this area, and I think it needs to be done even more in the future. In particular, I want to highlight Austen, which has a huge consumption of fish per day. built-in -- there's already a good starting point. And they have the situation that in several areas they have the blackfish seas, so they have a lot of use for what we can produce. When it comes to the salmon agreement with the EU, it is crucial to us that we get a good result, rather than what we have today. It's going to be a very hard fight to achieve that, and I think it's important that we be able to send a message here that we support our negotiators when they do their work, that the noise does not crack in every possible direction. I have good hope that we will reach such an agreement, and I know that the Minister for Fisheries is working actively to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e227	When there was the greatest attention to the sale of Hydro Seafood, it seemed as if there was approximately unanimity in Norway that it was not right to allow the foreigners to get hold of this flagship. It was for those who wrote editorials in the newspapers, and it was for us politicians. And it was almost political contempt because we didn't do anything about it. Then it turned out that the English were doing something about it. But for this with national ownership: I think the best way to secure it is by using local ownership. I heard that the representative Rita Tveiten said that it is those who want to live on the coast who must be given priority, not those who have the most money. But then it's getting this into practice. When we have a breeding law that aims to ensure that the interests are localised as far as possible, and that provision was not used in the case of Hydro Seafood, I wonder what kind of grip the Workers' Party wants to be made and which can be effective. I do not understand that it should be a form of discrimination against foreigners to say that we want those who live in the county to be prioritised in the award of new concessions. We want it to maintain our habitat, we want it because that's what gives the best supervision of the animals, that ensures the best animal welfare and that ensures the best product quality. There's going to be more and more attention around. Will the Workers' Party ensure local ownership of the new concessions in the context of the review of the Breeding Act, by creating a Law on Aquaculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e236	I don't have a very large hanging to stay by the past, but I'm sorry that Hydro sold Hydro Seafood. What I can say is that I have a problem ignoring the fact that Norwegian buyers are the most active in the world market when it comes to buying farm concessions, whether it's in Chile, in Scotland or in Canada. It's a kind of double moral that I'm responding to. Therefore I don't want to say one word about those who bought, but I have my thoughts about those who sold. When it comes to national ownership, one must also see this from the perspective that we are so active out there, but I think – and I want to emphasize that – that it is a political objective that we should build people along the coast. It is not necessary to make those who live along the coast a form of rental. Such a development does not want the Workers' Party. It is also the case that those living along the coast are entitled to safe jobs. It is not just those who own the locality and own the concession – or who have the possibility – that have the right to secure conditions. Therefore, a balance needs to be made when it comes to the type of safe, sustainable workplaces that can be accommodated along the coast. It is necessary to determine what kind of ownership should look like. I am that if there are local stakeholders who can secure safe jobs, they must be very careful when awarding concessions. People should not only be able to work on the coast, they should also be able to live and live there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e249	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e252	There is a lot of positive and good in the farm policy statement. – I have a short time, and I will therefore concentrate on a little more critical remarks, on things that I miss in the presentation, but as I think are very important. Firstly, the local development and management of this development must be more on the agenda, and the still-unborn local businesses in the marine sector must be better organised by the authorities than the Minister for Fisheries provides. If we all believe this to be the great growth industry for the coast and for Norway, we need to be more concerned with recruitment and to loose more creative people into the industry. Not least, we need to ensure that women find the industry attractive when it comes to choice of education and career. The entrance ticket must not be for animals, the industry must be more open to society around it and involve its neighbourhood in a kind of local partnership. Young people have to find the industry interesting when they grow up, so they feel they have golden roots in their own identity that they can bet on. It is too late for the industry to contact young people when they have started training and career choices. Open merds, which the breeder association has had, are among such important small measures that open up the industry to the community and give ownership to young people. Such measures are a prerequisite for good recruitment. The entrance ticket must not be for animals. It must be possible for several families and individuals to build farms from the bottom of, both in salmon farming and trout farming, and not least in the new species which are now growing slowly but safely. Local actors must be given sufficient time to build up their own competences and develop the industry locally in interaction with other businesses and with the community. This must be taken into account when granting rights. Marine farming takes place in coastal zones – a meeting point for many types of activities. This is where old and new industries meet, and here the public is covered by their leisure interests. The defence shall have its place and the coast shall act as a voyage path. The aim is that the coast should be inhabited, that coastal culture should be alive and cared for, and that the surrounding environment should be safeguarded. In many places, the space is already in demand, and it is reasonable to expect that the meeting between ever more users’ interests in the coastal zone will not be free of friction – rather conflict. It should not be automatic for the user with the greatest economic growth to have priority over other users. We can let users fight their conflicts without society interfering. But one can also help to make competition more constructive, that conflicts do not take over, and that in the long term the coast is used for the benefit of both the community and the nation. We in the Christian People's Party will choose a more conscious control of these resources in the future. We want a broader debate in Norway on what we are going to use the coastal zone and what development processes we are embarking on based on the goals that we as a nation have for this exciting industry. We can't start a development bit by bit in the coastal zone without having a clear goal for what we want out of this community building and out of the nature management. We must carefully balance the balance between growth, protection and environmental profiling, between local culture and industrial development and between external control and local anchoring. Once we've decided what we want, we need to put in the tools to the best possible extent, so that we get where we want to go. If we are to ensure good development for coastal communities, we need to do what we want. It doesn't come of itself. In order to benefit the coastal community, a certain proportion of the holdings should be anchored in local ownership. We should ensure this. There is not enough physical presence of the enterprises. Of course, many external owners will invest and develop the community, create jobs and build up local competence. Over time, however, local decision-makers and owners will guarantee a better security of presence so that they take decisions more in line with local interests. They are a prerequisite for a local partnership and give people more pride and a more positive identity in relation to their own coastal community. The surplus is more plentiful to the community in terms of investment, and it gives a sense of greater security and predictability to the community. It is therefore important to ensure such local ownership — and it is urgent. In coastal zones, traditional catch-based fisheries are still central to farming as a much larger source of income for Norway. Much of Norwegian identity and culture — especially in the north and in the west — is linked to this traditional industry that has fed people along the coast for thousands of years. But a cultural transfer to aquaculture will not come off the hook. The modern farming industry is a new way of thinking about the coastal community and will eventually change our coastal and fjord identity. Marine farming should have the ambition to carry out the task of being a carrier and building on cultural and social capital in conjunction with the traditional industries of Coastal Norway. In the field of tension here, there can be a lot of creative power if we can mitigate the conflicts and the negative tensions that are now present. Despite the sky-high expectations of fisheries and aquaculture, the natural growth limits are evident. Because of a lack of knowledge, control and control, we can do irrevocable faults. We are responsible for the biodiversity of the coastal zone and the ecological production capacity and carrying capacity. We must recognise our lack of knowledge and that we are only at the start of a demanding knowledge and competence building in this large blue-green industry. Test and fail learning poses significant risks. It should be reduced by increasing the use of research and research resources in Norway. Then we must give priority to the marine sector. The traditional household-oriented and small-scale forms of production that have shaped the farming industry in the first decades have had to give way largely to externally controlled, vertically integrated large enterprises. It is important to put in place instruments to maintain local family businesses on the coast and to maintain a diversity of ownership and types of enterprise. Research resources must also be organised in such a way as to enable smaller family businesses to make use of these resources in local and regional development work. Here too, the small research foundations need to be able to be involved. If local communities and local marine businesses do not have their own driving seat for their own development, the aquaculture industry will gradually lose some of its legitimacy on the coast. The horror scenario of the coastal community is that in 10-15 years' time they will remain as housekeepers on their own shores, controlled by national or international large-scale corporations that bottle up the community both for capital and opportunities for their own development of competence. The consequences of the introduction of a private rights regime, involving the rights of all persons and the rights of the general public, deserve an investigation and a greater interest in the Stortinget. If we look back in Norwegian history at the importance of the anchoring of all human rights and public rights, we also get a glimpse of the violent cultural changes that are now taking place on the coast. It is a national task to notify the coastal population of the way in which these rights are to be managed in the future. This does not concern just a few people in the fisheries management and aquaculture industries. The local rights of traditional fisheries must also give rise to rights in the new industry. This should be discussed. It is important to decide how to continue these local rights in new forms. Coastal zone planning needs to be modernised to take into account the new reality and the old local rights. A cutting privatisation of the coastal zone should not be accepted by the coastal community. The government should launch an investigation into this matter and submit a notification to the Stortinget shortly. We also need such an investigation to evaluate the Law of the Sea in a few years' time. Local rights should be enshrined in the Law on Planning and Building, so that local public rights find their modern form. So when we dealt with the Law of Seabiting, the Christian People's Party and the other central parties placed great emphasis on giving municipalities a strong position when these rights were to be distributed. Coastal Sons shall not be governed by randomness and market forces. Capital now has such good conditions in this sector that local community governance and planning should be seen as a constructive challenge in order to improve local development. Coastal communities in municipalities and through coastal zone planning must be active partners in this coastal development. Coastal zone planning shall relate to a complex reality, with local variations, and shall be dynamic. This can cause problems if we are to exercise national governance. Knowledge is a major requirement and there is a high level of cooperation, both vertically and horizontally, in the management system. A series of comprehensive scientific literature on coastal zone planning discusses the need for decentralisation of management responsibilities, the involvement of user groups in decision-making processes and the shifting of local knowledge to scientific knowledge. It means something more than hearing local user interests. We have to get further into this work. This implies a more pro-active role for the community and responsibility. In many ways, this contrasts with the idea that this situation, characterised by complexity, variation and dynamics, requires strong central governance. However, tasks can become too extensive and resource-intensive for central authorities. It is therefore important to decentralise governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e306	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e309	The representative Karlstrøm began his speech by saying that the Christian People's Party wants a conscious governance. But it was not quite clear how the Christian People's Party wants to direct development, and who should direct development. The Christian People's Party points to a lack of control and control. Does the Christian People's Party believe that the control apparatus in the form of laws and regulations must be strengthened in relation to today's level and to the announced restrictions on the legislation that have come from the Minister for Fisheries? Whether local rights are to be decided locally or centrally, it is a little difficult to obtain the actual perception of the Christian People's Party from the contributions of the representative Karlstrøm. When one calls for a big message about this, it indicates that the Christian People's Party wants to centralize this. It will be to deprive the people of the coast of the ability to control their development and their own land. Isn't it that those who live on the coast know best the coast and the sensible use of the coastal zone? Is it not the case that communities themselves must have an influence, a decisive influence, on how their own resources in the form of sea areas should be disposed of? Does the Christian People’s Party want this to be centrally controlled to a greater extent than today, with a corresponding lack of authority for those who live and live on the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e316	I felt that I expressed myself fairly clearly. In fact, I believe that there is a need for stronger governance from the community. But the situation is today, there is considerable frustration in local communities because they only have an advisory role. We have not followed up the coastal zone planning instrument by inserting it into a context of the Planning and Building Act, as we manage the other area in the municipality. In addition, we have this with the major conflicts of interest among users locally, and who should be responsible for balancing these interests is little clear. In a way, I think it is important that the community is given a great deal of co-responsibility for that balance, because there will be different balances here in different municipalities. However, they should be able to make a significant contribution to this balance within a national framework – maritime in relation to the environment and in relation to how we manage this industry. I believe in both. But it's a haven for the coastal communities that they don't have any influence on their largest asset.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e323	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e326	The Progress Party agrees with the Minister for Fisheries that we have come a long way with the Norwegian aquaculture industry, while Norway’s potential is much, much greater. Reports from scientific institutions show that the fishery and aquaculture industries have a huge potential for growth not only in areas where salmon and trout are farmed but also in the most widespread sense where crustaceans, mollusks and carcassballs are considered to be interesting organisms, and are thus an important part of a nutritional effort in Norway. Species within these groups are particularly suitable for grazing on sea pastures, as filter feeders exploit plankton in the sea for feed. The concept of pasture does not benefit from scientific calibration against reality. The reality consists, inter alia, in: of the ecological framework conditions in the sea, which are largely poorly known. Some of the boldest assumptions behind the proposal for sea grazing are that sea productivity is limited by the number of juveniles, so that increased release will increase production. So back to breeding salmon and trout. All 95 pst. production goes to markets outside Norway. Norwegian seafood products are exported to more than 150 countries, and the EU is now known as the main market for Norwegian seafood. Exports are regulated by Protocol 9 to the EEA Agreement. Unfortunately, important products for Norway such as herring, mackerel, salmon, shrimps, pectinidae and marine crabs are not covered by the Agreement’s tariff reductions and are therefore met at high customs rates when exported to the EU. We must always have international agreements, especially the salmon agreement with the EU, in mind when designing our farming policy. Many aspects of the salmon agreement should be reworked or removed in the renegotiation of the agreement in 2002. It is necessary to have an official control system to demonstrate that production is sustainable and that seafood is safe. It is important that the feed for fish does not contain substances presenting a risk of damage to fish, then to humans and the environment. It was then discouraging to read some time ago in the newspaper Fiskeren that outbreaks of salmonella in Norwegian fishmeal, i.e. in the feed industry, are not uncommon. But the most shocking thing was that Norwegian fishmeal producers had agreed to keep salmonella outbreaks secret. It doesn't create trust outwards. It is a major challenge to provide adequate feed sources for the further growth of the industry while preserving the character of Norwegian farmed fish as first-class seafood. In this context, it is important to explore and research opportunities to exploit new feed sources from, for example: agriculture. The presentation lacks a strong vision for the marine sector in Norway. The statement bears the mark of many good wishes, which in themselves are reasonable, but which nevertheless lack the strong will and ability to carry out. The Progress Party believes that Norway should have a future as a world-leading breeding nation, where the aquaculture industry is to take over the place of the petroleum industry as the leading export industry, very many scientific issues need to be addressed. In recent years, the authorities have invested to some extent in aquaculture research. One can mention here the SND programme Numario and the new research fund. The research generated from such programmes is far on the way to user-driven and thus directly production-related, where single problems are solved. Such research is both relevant and very useful to the industry. On the other hand, considerable basic research is needed in this area. Our universities and other heavy research institutions are currently suffering from a lack of private and public funding for basic research in biology and other natural sciences. These include aquaculture-related subjects such as biotechnology, microbiology, molecular biology, genetic engineering and physiology. These are disciplines that are the very foundation for future aquaculture within both existing and new species in farming. We have to have clear visions that Norwegian aquaculture is going to assert itself internationally in the future as well. It is therefore appropriate to consider seriously earmarking funds for research into biology aimed at our aquaculture industry. The Council of State stated that there is room for the award of new concessions. There is a broad political consensus on this. Nor is the Council of State alien to the fact that consideration should be given to the granting of concessions for the production of edible fish from salmon and trout. It's true that concessions give an exclusive right to exercise. The overall position of the Progress Party is to repeal the entire concession scheme. Instead, only provisions regulating objective requirements for the environment, animal welfare, food hygiene, fish health, etc. shall be taken into account. Subsidiarity should be liberalised and the concession authority transferred to the municipalities. There have been some rumors in the industry about what kind of discretionary criteria will be used to grant new concessions. Many large business operators have for some time tried to position themselves according to what many believe these criteria will be based on. The discretionary criteria that have been mentioned are: rural policy – strengthening the economically poor areas to favour enterprises with plans for investment in local business and infrastructure to favour established enterprises that are set up in new farming areas such as cod, halibut, turbot and other marine species to favour actors new in farming contexts to favour knowledge businesses linked to research environments to favour small companies with few existing concessions; In any case, allocations on such a basis will have to be subjectively assessed. An obvious problem is: who should assess who meets these or other criteria on the basis of which the award is made? A problem related to the assessments based on district considerations is: how to ensure the establishment in economically poor areas when the concessions are negotiable? In any case, ESA claims that emphasising local links in the allocation of fish farming concessions is not in accordance with Article 31 of the EEA Agreement. Another thing is that if awarded for many new concessions, Norway may risk penal customs duties if, as a result of increased production, we also increase exports beyond the agreement with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e383	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e386	In my opinion, aquaculture should be a coastal industry run by people living along the same coast. I therefore think it is positive that the Government will strengthen the nutritional basis for the small actors. Who then thinks the Progress Party is the best to run this industry? And who will in the future own and control the coastal zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e393	I guess it's none of what Mimmi Bæivi said, which contradicts our program. The general position of the Progress Party is that we want to abolish the concession scheme. Instead, the fishing authorities could grant permission to produce salmon at approved sites and within the framework of laws and regulations regulating objective requirements for the environment, animal protection and food hygiene, as I said in my main post. However, both the listed and the small breeding companies and, for the part, the new actors in the industry would probably have benefited from such an attitude, because then capital would not be tied up in the financing of the concession papers. So, of course, the Progress Party welcomes and has in its programme that small and medium-sized enterprises should receive allocations and that allocations should take place according to criteria such as: that, within the municipalities which have made the most of their regulatory plans, these will be given priority in the award of new concessions. And then also the coastal communities will come into the picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e402	I have a question for the Advance Party about the deflagration of Hydro Seafood. Does the Progress Party think that it was entirely okay that Hydro Seafood was flagged out and bought up by a foreign company? And if you don't think so, in what way will the Progress Party ensure that there is no such thing with other companies in Norway that are growing up in the aquaculture industry? Then it was repeated that the Progress Party does not want us to have any management of the farming industry through the concession scheme. However, the association of fish farms recently adopted decisions on future structure and policies. They are based on the fact that we are going to have a concession scheme, and they are based on the fact that we are going to have a regulation of production through a limited allocation of new concessions. They go in order to distribute a limited number of new concessions for salmon and trout, max. 10 pst. annual growth and perhaps 100 concessions over the first five years. And they think it's the smaller companies with one concession that are going to have the first. Does the Progress Party still want such a system, according to what Terje Knudsen said in his last answer? Yet, do you want to have a system that allows you to give priority to the small ones? And then how does it relate to the party's fundamental vision? In what way should it be possible for small companies and those living along the coast to be given the new concessions when it is said that environmental and animal health considerations are the only thing that should govern development?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e409	It will always be a market for small players, and the Progress Party will not be able to make any headway in business. At all times, we want the market economy to decide who will be in this market. With regard to the award criteria, I said in my previous reply that we prefer to see the coastal communities that have come the farthest with their regulatory plans being prioritised in the award of new concessions. But whatever the case, on such a basis, allocations will have to be assessed subjectively, and an obvious problem is: who is to assess who meets these or other criteria on which we base the allocation? As I also said in the main post instead, there are problems related to criteria based on districts, on which the representative Morten Lund is concerned. How are we to ensure the establishment of these economically poor areas? When the concessions are negotiable, there are several questions that have to be answered, if you want to direct development to those you want to help here, namely, the small concessionaires with maybe one or two concessions in nutrient-poor strokes, will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e418	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e422	Norwegian aquaculture has grown as a result of private initiative and creativity. The state has been a regulator and subsequently partly entered the owner’s side. In addition, it has made a modest contribution to research. The right is fully in line with the Minister for Fisheries when he says in his statement: ‘In principle, I believe that adaptation of production to market developments should be the responsibility of operators.’ However, he says, this cannot be the case in practice. The Minister for Fisheries and the Right strongly disagree. The Minister of Fisheries should at least strive to make it that way. The marine industry has been identified as a winner of the future, and much has been arranged for this to happen. But then it is imperative that Norwegian aquaculture be released from the coercion in which the state has introduced it. This is a key prerequisite for the industry to be able at all to achieve the objectives and visions that governments and others have for it. From the Right, the approach of the Minister for Fisheries to market conditions is passive. The marine industry is forecasting a future as one of Norway’s most remote industries. This requires an active trade policy, while at the same time deregulating the industry. Today's concession law and feed quota regime deserve redemption when the salmon agreement with the EU expires next year. We must not, in today's situation, become so navigable around state management tools as concessions, management of industry, auction of concessions, cubic metres regulations and coastal zone plans that we forget to lift our eyes up and out. Because we do, we discover that Norway – today the world’s largest producer and exporter of salmon – is losing market share. The largest growth in farming today takes place outside the borders of the country. This is the case even though the Norwegian coast appears environmentally likely to be the most attractive area for fish farming worldwide, and Norwegian competence in this area is, after all, unsurpassed. Billions of money are invested by Norwegian actors during these days in Chile. Yes, even the Norwegian State appears to be one of the largest foreign investors. On the right, there is nothing against Norwegian involvement internationally in breeding, but in Norway we have to ask why it has become so that the growth, investment and investment from the Norwegian side are today greater than within borders. We think it is more than strange that the bulk of the population has contributed to the Norwegian state being one of the most active in the Chilean culture adventure. Think of the same large number of people who had shown equal interest in taking a boost in marine research! In the alternative state budget of the Right this year, we proposed to introduce a scheme in which companies could deduct from 25 pst. of documented R & D expenditure of up to 4 million. kr. in the tax. For companies that are not in the tax position, we proposed a supplementary grant. Unfortunately, the majority voted in favour of our proposal. The proposal would strengthen research efforts and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, characterised by the aquaculture industry. To reach the ambitions set on behalf of the farming industry, the Right expects the Minister for Fisheries to take an initiative similar to the Right's proposal to strengthen applied research and development in the fisheries and farming industry. Today, the industry itself contributes significant amounts to research. One of the most important tasks for the public is to stimulate enterprises to do even more. We need to ensure that operators in the aquaculture industry are given competitive framework conditions that can contribute to the future Norwegian coast becoming the main venue for investment, research and development. It is a major problem that producers abroad do not meet the same constraints as at home. Chile, for example, does not have strict production restrictions that prevent rapid growth. Therefore, Chilean production is increasing much faster than the industry is allowed to in Norway. The actual situation along the Norwegian coast is characterised in too many municipalities by stagnation in the population. It is unfair to coastal communities and to those initiators who wish to take part in the fisheries and aquaculture industry that many of those with investment and development plans are stopped. In its presentation, the Council of State gives great attention to the administration. Similarly, less attention has been paid to the framework conditions for the industry to develop itself. There is a risk that red tape and control systems may suffocate parts of the growth of the industry. The industry, for example, is characterised by a form field that helps to steal enormous time and attention. This must not be a major task of the Government of the Maritime Policy. Management now needs to put its weight into guidance to municipalities that have not yet received approved coastal zone plans in place. The Ministry needs to put its main emphasis on improving market access to the EU. Market access to the EU must be improved. It is not acceptable that the Government has given up as much as possible to improve market access to our main market. Only the EU’s central and eastern European enlargement should provide for a different level of commitment and pressure from the Government. Norwegian exports of salmon to the EU are regulated by the salmon agreement. This Agreement includes, inter alia: provisions on export duties, minimum prices and limits for export growth. The agreement expires on 30 June 2002. In its statement, the Minister for Fisheries said that the agreement has worked well. This may indicate that the Government’s objective is to continue the agreement. The agreement is the result of the 1995-96 EU Commission bowing to a protectionist pressure from Irish and Scottish breeders, where the anti-dumping weapon is a threat. Under the feed quota system and concessional regulation of start-ups, the Government ensures that the supply of Norwegian salmon is limited to the EU market. Although Norwegian salmon exports to the EU — despite the salmon agreement — have shown a steady increase in recent years, Norway is losing market share. A new salmon agreement with the EU after today’s norm will lead to Norway losing its leading position in this area. I believe that the agreement must be terminated or, at best, greatly improved. Norwegian farming is a powerful symbol of the impact and price we have to pay by being outside the EU. When the agreement is due to expire, Norwegian authorities will have to consider how best to ensure market access for farmed salmon. The Norwegian coast misses thousands of jobs because we are also stuck in the commodity clamp in this area. A central trade policy objective must be to secure us against new EU anti-dumping penalties, without imposing restrictions on the industry. The salmon price has largely been well above the EU’s minimum prices. Furthermore, increasing scepticism against meat by consumers in EU countries should make it possible to argue that the current salmon agreement should not be extended. The Minister for Fisheries should therefore now make every effort to replace the current salmon agreement with a renegotiation with a view to increasing market access, as the EEA Agreement actually opens up. Similarly, the Minister for Fisheries must work actively, not least within his own government, in order to improve the WTO rules on trade in fishery products, given the highest commercial policy priority. In addition, state councillor Gregussen should now take the initiative to increase the volume of existing breeders in its production facilities. The Minister for Fisheries proposes that the new concessions granted this year should cover areas which have been granted concessions under previous allocations. I would ask the Council of State to also take into account existing farming environments. The allocation round should therefore be as comprehensive as possible. The question of remuneration for concessions, as raised by the Council of State, should use today the opportunity to clarify. What kind of arrangement is the Council of State thinking? Are local settings to be tapped for income? The right will not impose additional costs on the farming industry which may help to impair the competitiveness of the industry. Norway, as the world’s major maritime action, has imposed a growth restriction on itself through the EU Agreement. As a result, the aquaculture industry in Norway is losing ground and market share. Such an artificial restriction must be avoided by the next EU agreement. If we don't, we'll see that Norwegian aquaculture continues to lose terrain relatively in the coming years. With our good natural conditions, we should absolutely avoid having to brake so that other countries take us back.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e458	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e461	Clearly, there is a lot of agreement between the various parties when it comes to Norwegian aquaculture policy. There might be reason to point to any of that, not least this that goes on research, which also Ivar Kristiansen was in. It is important that more research is done. He claimed that the industry itself provides monthly today in this field. We have now received a research and development fee that can make a contribution, but otherwise it is the general picture when it comes to Norway and industry’s research efforts, that there is a great potential for improvement, and we are forced to do so. The representative Kristiansen was in the middle of growing worlds before aquaculture increases. What is a defining factor for Norway – and we can see how we would have had it – is what kind of market access we have. Once again, to negotiate a new agreement, there are two parties. There's every reason to agree with the representative of Kristiansen that it would be nice if we could avoid the growth constraints that lie in the salmon agreement that we have today, but it's actually not just up to us to decide. Since the representative of Kristiansen has such a strong view of what we can accept and not accept with regard to the EU, which is, after all, our main trading partner, it would be nice if he could clarify to the assembly what he expects will be the countermeasure of the European Union if we are not closed with our wishes in this context. In my view, the WTO response is too simple, and at least it does not fit completely in time. We must have exports going to the EU all the time. What is Kristiansen’s answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e472	It is right that Mr Tveiten's representative pointed out that research and development in this area would be absolutely crucial in order to achieve the ambitions and objectives we have set ourselves in this area. We cannot label the bottom list in Europe as regards research and development costs in share of gross domestic product. This is a situation that so far seems to carry completely wrong of farms. We have verbal ambitions in this area that, within four years, we will reach an OECD average, but through the budgets, I just record that we are not following up words of action. I also think that if we're going to get on the road, we need to stimulate the breeding industry to go even a few steps further. Norwegian fishing industry is a model for any other industry in Norway to safeguard its own interests. This is the case in both research and development, and not least the industry itself pays a huge amount of export marketing costs. It is an example of follow-up for any other industry. The answer to the European question is, of course, that Norway should be a member of the EU. I see that with today's situation in Stortinget and in the Norwegian people, there is little evidence that we will come in as a member with the very first, but this outsidership has to worry us. With the role of the Norwegian breeding industry, where the foreign market receives 95 pst. of production, and where the EU, as the best paid market, accepts the essential part of this, we need to have a more active approach to the salmon agreement with the EU than what seems to be coming so far, and then I refer to the Secretary of Fisheries's statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e479	If the Right wants the coast to avoid the horror scenario that several people here have talked about, the house mannification – that is, you lose your rights – it's a little interesting what the Right believes about this. I perceive that the Right believes that this with ownership is important. I agree that ownership is important when engaged in business development. If local owners are an important part of industrial diversity in this industry, if a local administration is important to balance conflicts of interest and if a local partnership is important in developing the full range of opportunities available in a community, how is this to be achieved? Is it immaterial who is the owner? And how does the Right believe that this is going to be done in the future? Or to be even more concrete: should we decentralize the administration, closer to the users and communities, and how?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e484	It's an interesting theme the Karlstrøm representative brings up. She uses expressions like the 'fear scenario', and it actually stands out too much of this debate. So there's a kind of need to focus around the concept of control. I think it is very unfair to the coastal population and to the many people who have investment plans and want to start fishing and aquaculture along the coast, that they are meeting an administrative regime in Norway today that does not allow them to do so. I think the worst horror scenario we can imagine along the coast is if development continues as it does today. I believe that if Randi Karlstrøm takes a look at population statistics and development along the Norwegian coast from, for example, 1970 to the turn of the century, she will see that it is stagnation that characterizes development. This wants the Right to do something about it. This right wants to contribute in that way that we want to let go of those who sit with investment plans, lust and energy. And no food is better equipped to take on creating new optimism and glow along the coast than just the fishing and aquaculture industry. Of course, the right-hand side says yes to local ownership, that's what has brought the industry up and down to the level it has today, but we also say yes to diversity. We also believe that approved coastal zone plans are an instrument that should be good enough as a management tool to ensure that the veterinary requirements for development are adequately met.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e491	According to the representative Ivar Kristiansen, the development of the aquaculture industry is the very symbol of the problems we have that we did not become members of the European Union. But when a reader reads the Marine Policy Statement and looks at the curves that are at the back of the effects of the ‘problems’, I find it quite strange to come to such a conclusion. The sales and value creation are straight to heaven. Annual growth in the last few years is larger than the forecasts, which show that in 20 years the aquaculture industry will have much greater value creation than the oil today. With good development, this industry can take over what the oil means for the Norwegian economy — and it seems to be a problem and difficult development. There has been no shortage of capital in this industry and the market has not disappeared. The problems we have on the market have arisen because some of those who talk more about free trade do not want free trade – they are afraid of free competition. So we've had some problems. I think the most important barrier to positive development is that those living in the spring will not put the premises at the disposal, that the coastal communities say they will have more back than they get today; they see the workplaces disappear because the owners establish themselves elsewhere. It does not become local ownership by saying freely to those who want to pay the most. And it has to be right-wing to be involved and do something about if we're to get a positive development for the coast that makes the young people work in this industry, which makes the municipalities along the coast get income from it. They don't get it if it's the richest who take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e505	It's a little strange to hear the Central Party's argument in this debate. There is no batch that goes further into high dollar prices, high crude oil prices and high prices of Norwegian gas to be exported. The rest of us have to think a little bit further than that. It does not seem yet that Morten Lund has realized that the vast majority of Norwegian production goes to the foreign market and that there are conditions for the producer. When these are the prices achieved in the market that are essential for achieving the ambitions that the representative Morten Lund has also contributed to describe as being of high value, namely, that we should tidalize the turnover within this industry, he must also be able to understand that the conditions of the market to buy Norwegian products are crucial for how far we are going to reach this industry. And today, the Norwegian coast appears as a gallant symbol of the price we have to pay by standing outside the EU. Norwegian farming industry has x the number of thousands of processing jobs outside the country border, in the EU area, jobs that we had more than ever seen, and which are needed to strengthen settlement along the Norwegian coast. So to the issue of ownership. It's a paradox that it was under the Bondevik government, with the participation of the Center Party, that it was taken into account to phase out the Hydro Seafood in the state-owned Hydro, which made sure that this ended up on foreign hands. I did not hear very loud protests, nor from the representative of Morten Lund. Furthermore, it is a paradox that from the same centre parties there is a warm applause for the state itself to make the largest investment at present – outside the borders of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e514	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e517	The Research Council, in a report called the ‘Marine Adventure’, has estimated the value-added potential of the fisheries and aquaculture industries to DKK 150 billion in a 20-year perspective. The potential for value creation, and whether those are the marine industries we're going to live off when the oil age ends, is, in my opinion, of less interest in the phase we're in now. After all, we want oil and gas resources that will generate revenues and seize resources for decades to come. What we can do, which is the biggest challenge, is to choose to bet on having a high-educated population, with peak competence in central areas. This means that education and research will create our competitive advantage. If we focus on a highly educated population, with an extensive research effort, we cannot lead Norway as a low-cost country. Instead of profiling ourselves as a low-cost country, we need to profile ourselves as a high-cost country, in order to attract our research skills. Our competitive advantage should therefore be a high level of costs. In the recommendation of the Research Communication, there was broad political agreement that the marine sector should be one of four thematic areas of activity. We believe that the marine sector has the potential to become a central sector in value creation. However, a prerequisite is that we create a sustainable nourishment. And there is reason to be concerned when, in the report we received from the Research Council, we see how the international environments have assessed our research efforts in this area. We thought we were good at marine research, but these international assessments show that we're not as good as we thought. Especially on the basics, we're too bad, and it should be a cross of thought for all of us. The Minister for Fisheries, in his presentation, was particularly concerned about the market side. It is important that we have access to the international markets and that resources are used to understand the different markets. The report from BI on ‘A value-creating Norway’ places particular emphasis on the market side, and I believe that the Minister for Fisheries has drawn much of his inspiration from this report. I believe that the main challenges, whether we succeed in this industry, are on the environment, and there are the main challenges, among other things. the feed situation. We cannot continue to take up large quantities of fish to feed – fish that can alternatively be used for human consumption. These are fish that are part of the ocean cycle. Over-taxation may have consequences for fisheries, which are at least currently larger than the aquaculture sector in terms of value creation. We think that's where the greatest research effort has to be put, if we're going to succeed. If we fail to make better use of the raw material and find new sources of raw material, this will limit production and value creation. We have to set clear targets on what we are going to achieve and what time horizon we have for this, and then I refer to our proposal No. 2, where we ask for a plan to replace the current raw material with other raw material in feed production, to be submitted to the Stortinget. It is also vital that we have coastal zone plans showing which areas are available without conflicts with other industries and outdoor interests. In this context, it is important to be concerned with farmed-free fjords in order to ensure the wild axis. That's where I refer to one thing that we'll get later. I also think it is important that we manage to maintain the aquaculture industry as a district industry, where local interests are mainly owned. There I also refer to our proposal No. 1, where we want to use state pre-purchase law to ensure exactly that. This is a proposal that, hopefully, will fall into good soil at the Centre Party and other stakeholders. The Research Council has also pointed out in its report that it is a major challenge to raise capital for the industry at that stage. There is a drought of capital, and it is important that state capital can enter and remedy that situation. I also refer to our proposal, No. 3rd@item: inlistbox In the end, I will address our proposals. I would point out that in proposal No. 5 is a couple of errors. The last sentence shall be replaced by the following: ‘The ramifications should mainly apply to the municipalities where the plants are established’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e541	Rolf Rikham has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e546	Marine farming seems to be a new maritime adventure when the oil adventure ebbs out, and as a coastal woman, I see future pleasure in meeting. Norway is a coastal nation. When Norway is described by Oslo, it is very often wrong. One of the faults is the infrastructure and actually the road construction, an otherwise central matter in this house today. It's crazy when it's so expensive to carry the fish southwards, for example. costs Bergen to Stavanger NOK 2 300 more in ferry and toll fees to get the fish the way he is going. That's why the wagon train from Ålesund, Sogn and Bergen goes towards the continent of Eastfold, and this is ineffective. Leading fish to the market is faster and more environmentally effective, and therefore we need the coastal line. SV is generally negative to road development. Does it not seem that, with a great deal of pure seafood to be transported to Europe's table, we need a coastal line that leads the fish in good quality? That means he actually has to be good. And with the most reasonable and shortest path, it'll be environmentally effective, and the maritime adventure will be a success.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e555	I think it was a bad claim to say that we are negative to road development. We're dealing with a national transport plan for the time being, and we're also spending a lot of money on road development. But I think one of the most important challenges is to expand and facilitate railway development, so that we can carry a larger part of the fish on the railway, for example. Because I am quite convinced that one of the major environmental challenges is to find a more environmentally friendly way to transport the fish out of Norway. In this context, it's not just about the road, but it's also about processing the fish differently from what we're doing today. For as we sell the fish today, it is transport-intensive, and it is unfortunately environmental, and therefore efforts aimed at processing and research towards processing the fish at home will help reduce the transport needs of the large markets. There I think some of the major challenges lie, because no matter how many roads we build along the coast and elsewhere, I'm pretty sure we have to reduce the transport of fish by road to the large markets. We have to find other ways to do this, and we have to reduce transport by processing a larger part of the fish at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e562	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e565	Norway has the best natural conditions in the world to produce clean, healthy food from the sea, produced in a sustainable way. We export seafood to more than 150 countries, and nothing indicates that we have reached the top. The value added potential of the marine industries is probably worth several hundred billion dollars. The farm was not created by the Norwegian State. There is a diversity of large and small private owners who have developed the industry to what it is today. The central government took many important initiatives to develop aquaculture. Marine farming was flashed out as one of Norway’s four priority research areas. We started cleaning up the marine form fields, which have been worse than any other part of the business. The Council of State confirmed in its statement that he was following up these initiatives. Left's happy. The left also believes that the industry must be taxed to invest in research. I think it is absolutely essential that a strategy for the marine industries includes the entire chain of value creation, that it goes from merd to envelope, to rewrite a slogan from agriculture, ‘from land to table’. The presentation by the Council of State met only partially that requirement. Further processing and product development are important keywords. A critical area of the state councils is transport. For an industry that sells fresh products with limited durability, fast and safe transport is essential. It is necessary to take a force to make road transport easier, including: by removing the main bottlenecks on the main road network and by targetedly reducing the large ferry costs that favour coastal business. The left will halve the holiday rates of industry and take the first step towards the budgetary agreement in the autumn. However, I think we need to realize that it is not possible or desirable to cover the enormous growth we expect in fish exports, by road transport. We need to find new solutions, and then maritime transport naturally flashes out. The left will take the initiative of a comprehensive research and development programme for the cost-effective and environmentally friendly transport of Norwegian fishery products, in cooperation with the breeding industry and the yard industry. New technologies for gas-fuelled ships should be a special area of activity, together with the development of good fishing ports. The availability of protein-rich feed for farmed fish can become another critical area for the further growth of aquaculture. Feed produced from natural gas has a high potential, while the research environment has come a long way in developing new plant species that can be used as protein for fish feed. In my view, this is particularly interesting and can provide an exciting interaction between agriculture and the fishing industry. The Left expects the Government to follow up on these and other opportunities, in cooperation with industry and the research community concerned. A good marine environment is a fundamental prerequisite for growth in the aquaculture industry. The industry itself has made great environmental progress, although important environmental challenges such as the escape and release of copper remain. Nevertheless, it is actually the external threats that are clearly the most serious. The Left expects, for the sake of the entire Coastal Norway, that the Government does its utmost to prevent the opening of shipments of radioactive waste along the Norwegian coast and to stop the radioactive emissions from the UK recovery facility Sellafield. Not only are these environmental threats serious in themselves, they can also damage Norway’s reputation as an exporter of pure food. The Left is pleased that the Workers’ Party’s proposal for an auctioning principle for breeding concessions was rejected in cash by the Stortinget. The combination of an auctioning principle that favors the large, capital-powerful actors and massive state drachma to Statkorn Holding would have been the worst case scenario for the structure of the farming industry. It also means much to the recruitment that the left and the centre have been given the advantage that schools in the field of aquaculture education can be awarded their own concessions. It can provide an essential boost to the recruitment of the maritime industries and is a political signal of the importance of providing attractive training services in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. I assume that the Minister for Fisheries is now making sure that the remuneration scheme takes special account of schools, which are not supposed to exploit their concessions commercially. Finally, the Left believes that it is important that local communities along the whole coast that facilitate aquaculture as a future industry should be able to take part in the values created. I can't get into it now for the sake of time, but the left is that it can be a tax that benefits local communities through its own initiative and the organisation of the aquaculture industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e591	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e594	The left highlighted in its article the potential of this industry in a value creation aspect. Nothing indicates that we have reached the top, said among other things. the representative. But we clearly need these resources to be sold. It might be interesting to ask the representative how he and the Left look at the possibility of securing Norwegian exports of seafood in the forthcoming WTO negotiations. Is Left e.g. willing to sacrifice some of the import protection in relation to agriculture, in exchange for better market access to the EU for seafood?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e599	Like several speakers today, the aquaculture industry is an example of the fact that an industry producing clean and healthy food and producing goods that people want is the market for. We remember the EU debate and the debate on access to the market, as it was falling at worst. The fishing industry and the salmon industry were then predicted north and down because we did not get the market access that membership of the EU would have led to. Now it turns out that this industry has grown considerably, adventurously, quite frankly, and the expectations for the future are still great. It has actually evolved into one of the supports of our future business and value creation potential. I think it's too clever to try to say that if we don't have membership of the EU, we won't sell our products either. It is clear that the EU is an important market, but if we have good goods, healthy food, produced according to good principles, this will be a market. And we see that in the different situations that have arisen in Europe now. We come to a point where people are willing to pay for food that is healthy and safe. Norwegian fishing industry must continue to invest in this, that is where our potential lies. I do not think it is necessary to facilitate Norwegian import protection in the case of agricultural products in order to have our fish products sold.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e606	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e609	Norway has a high potential for value creation in the aquaculture industry. Only parts of the marine capabilities have been exploited. Reports from scientific institutions show that the fishing and aquaculture industry has a high potential for growth, not only in areas such as salmon and trout farming, but also marine fish, crustaceans, biotechnology and the exploitation of by-products. The debate on the statement on aquaculture policy has shown that there is agreement on the marine value creation potential and that there is agreement on the main features of aquaculture policy. In order to realise the value creation potential, good governance, good cooperation between actors, a common understanding of objectives and the fully coordinated use of instruments are important. Marine Policy Statement is an overall review of the Government’s Maritime Policy. Demand for Norwegian seafood and access to markets are fundamental prerequisites for increasing value creation in the aquaculture industry. The future of our most important coastal industry depends largely on how well industry interests are safeguarded in international trade agreements. There is broad agreement that the solutions of the EEA Agreement are poorly suited to safeguarding the interests of the fisheries and aquaculture industry in relation to the EU. Through changing governments, the Norwegian authorities have worked to improve market access for Norwegian seafood to the EU market, without our success. The work on free trade agreements through the EFTA and World Trade Organisation, the WTO, is long-term processes, and it takes time for this work to produce desired results. We will keep a high profile in WTO work to help put industrial products, including fish, on the agenda of the forthcoming negotiations. In principle, I believe it is right that the adjustment of production to market developments should be the responsibility of operators. However, active management of the aquaculture industry is needed. With the current market conditions, in particular with regard to the Union market, it has been found that there is a need for a controlled growth in salmon production. This is also a relatively broad consensus in the industry. As I see it, the Norwegian authorities currently have the necessary instruments for effective regulation of total production. There is a great deal of interest in the forthcoming award of concessions for salmon and trout. It's natural. But let me underline that the future of the aquaculture industry is much more. Here I am thinking especially of opportunities in new marine species. I aim that in the next few years, new concessions for the breeding of salmon and trout will be published regularly. A limited number of new concessions will be granted in 2001. I believe that the most important thing is for new concessions in salmon and trout to help start new business in areas that are currently not fully exploited for aquaculture purposes. That's why I want the concessions this time to apply to regions with great potential, but which have received concessions in the past. I would also like to give priority to smaller actors who obviously need a better operational basis and where an improved operational basis cannot be realised without more concessions. We are now preparing for the award of new concessions. Proposal for a change to the Breeding Act to take consideration in the award of concessions for the production of edible fish for salmon and trout is in consultation. The government aims to promote legislation on this before Easter. I expect that proposals for allocation regulations can be sent to the hearing before the summer. Concessions may be awarded during the autumn of 2001. Norway is a world-leading aquaculture nation. With our advantage, for example: in a unique coastline, commodity access and global competitive competition, the industry will continue to grow on the basis of Norway. Our challenge is to provide the industry with a framework that allows the marine potential to be fully exploited. In this context, I would like to point to the signal in the statement that we will switch to other forms of limiting production. I believe that production should be regulated by feed quotas and the carrying capacity of the individual site. In the development of a new production management system, we will also focus on ensuring the natural needs of fish and taking into account fish health and welfare. I record that the proposal for a new environmental-based production regulation system seems to have been well received by business operators. This shows that operators will take their environmental responsibility. Proposals have been made for municipalities to be able to charge excise duties from the aquaculture industry. However, before new excise duties can be introduced, we need to assess the consequences of this, for example. for the international competitiveness of the industry. At the same time as the aquaculture industry is becoming increasingly important to coastal communities, we see a concentration of interests that leads to the accumulation of exclusive rights to operate salmon and trout sport among fewer practitioners. This does not contribute to the necessary diversity in industry. I would therefore like to lay down, in the near future, general rules on the limitation of ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e645	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e649	Unlike the Right, I dare to talk about conflicts in this exciting industry. The minister was at Finnmark Fiskerlag's annual meeting, and he asked the fishermen there to focus less on increasing the quotas and rather focus their interest on farming. That's all right. But then they have to be given enough time to build up their skills, and local opportunities have to be ensured for the local stakeholders, so they don't experience that in a very short time these opportunities are owned by people living 200 miles away from Finnmark. It may be misguided when local actors are not given time. And I would like to comment on this by linking the rights of fishermen to the possibility of a faster entry into the farming industry, because they currently manage rights to go into farming. So there's a conflict of use here that you can take advantage of. I am also interested in a comment on that with coastal zone planning as an important tool to run nutrient planning in the municipality, whether or not you should get a little speed on getting it properly into the planning and building law. Finally, I would also like to make a brief comment on what other measures the Minister will take than to change the lease with regard to the transport of nuclear waste to be carried out along our coast. This is a major environmental threat to the farming industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e660	I would like to say that what I said at the annual meeting in Finnmark Fiskerlag was that when you want to find out what is the potential for employment and value creation and for creating a fishing industry, it's not good enough, as we're seeing in the future, that we're basing ourselves on the resources that are currently landed on the fishing side. I certainly believe that the whole of Coast Norway, and perhaps especially Finnmark, has excellent conditions for also being able to operate with other species in farming. And I think one in Finnmark should have been committed to raising cod to strengthen the communities that today depend on this resource. I think it's right to present these kinds of challenges, and I'm very happy to see that the interest in starting this kind of breeding business is enormous. And what's even more interesting is that the greatest interest, both in the case of cod, in the case of shellfish, in the case of other new species, is found among those described as entrepreneurs, among local entrepreneurs. And this is going to be assured. Otherwise, I just have to refer to Section 6 of the Fish Breeding Act, which gives us the opportunity to take account of local ownership when granting rights. We must also be aware that, after all, this is an area that is disputed by ESA. In the case of coastal zone planning, this is important. It requires municipalities to think about how the land is to be used, and it requires municipalities to facilitate economic development. This is the responsibility of municipalities, and more and more people take this responsibility because they see the potential. When it comes to what's going to be done on the security page, I think we need to get back to this, because there's quite a lot of things going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e671	The councils began their speeches by saying that we have a great potential in the farming industry, and we all agree on that. But what's happening? Is Norway growing fast enough? We see in the situation we're up in, that Chile is growing faster and is about to pass us as the world's salmon nation. So what can we do better? We're good in many areas, but what can we do to get even further? This with market access is very important. Governments mentioned the Union market, but there are many other significant markets that have a potential for Norwegian exports of fishery products, farmed products. For example, the population growth in the United States over the next ten years could take away Norwegian exports of salmon if this growth consumes in line with current consumers in the United States. 13 pst. of the world's population, i.e. The United States, the EU and Japan, are responsible for 79 pst. the consumption of farmed salmonids. It should indicate that there are major challenges, but also significant opportunities. What tools does the Council of State now believe should be given priority in order to take greater advantage of these alternative markets and to compete with Chile in the future and continue to be the world's leading salmon industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e680	It is true, as the representative Hedstrom notes, that world salmon production is growing rapidly. It is also true that production is growing faster in other countries at the moment than it is in Norway. We have a special relationship with two markets. One market is the EU, and the salmon agreement has been discussed in detail, so I shall not say anything more about it. But we have a similar relationship for some products to the American market. We might like that, or we might not like that, but we're going to have to adapt to it, or we're going to meet new trade restrictions. But both the Ministry of Fisheries and the industry are very aware of the opportunities that lie in other markets. We have our own systems in which we collect a so-called marketing tax used by the community all over the world, and we are promoting the market in all countries that we consider to have the potential for further growth. Furthermore, when we set the annual feed quotas for the salmon industry, we have to estimate what we think the different markets can decrease, and dimension the output after that. Then we take into account both the constraints we have on the American and European markets and the opportunities we have on the other markets. If we look at how the economy in the industry has evolved over the last few years, we will see that at least the last two years have been quite successful in adapting our output to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e689	When the Minister for Fisheries raises the question of remuneration for new concessions, I will ask first of all: When will the Stortinge get presented as a matter, and is the Council of State today willing to say something about what kind of scheme he thinks in this area? Then the Council of State is aware that the EEA Agreement serves as a bad instrument in relation to the ambitions it has for future development. That is a view that I fully share with the Minister for Fisheries. On this issue, there is no doubt that the Council of State and the entire farming industry are living in a kind of tension between agriculture and fisheries, and if the Government does nothing but resign, I am afraid that it is the Norwegian farming industry that has to pay the high price resulting from having a Norwegian agriculture fully protected as before. My advice to the Council of State is that close to his own government he should not resign on this issue, because it is for the industry of the greatest importance both in relation to the future renewal of a possible salmon agreement and in relation to the forthcoming WTO negotiations to have a strategy that allows access conditions to bring up and forward the industry. So my advice is, don't leave within the government on these questions. So at the end of the day, I have a point of view on the type of regulation that the Council of State is thinking about, where a new system of production regulation is being put in place based on concessions, feed quotas and the carrying capacity of each locality. I have a feeling that this will be very complicated both for the authorities and not least for the breeders. There will be an unbridled system, it will be an expensive system, and not all of its administrative capacity should be used primarily in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e698	As I said in my post, the question of remuneration and proposals for a legal basis for this will be promoted for the Storting before Easter. With regard to the question of the arrangements to be put in place for this purpose, it requires a significant investigation. In fact, today I don't want to go into the details of what structures you have to create to achieve the goals that Stortinget has set, so I have to be allowed to come back to. The Government has in no way resigned in this respect with the possibilities of improving market access, but both the Bondevik Government and the current Government have addressed with the EU itself minimal changes to the fisheries part of the EEA Agreement. It is only to be noted that the EU responds that there is no particular interest in improving this. Then you can say that you get stronger tools, but it is not easy to see what opportunities you have for this as an EEA member. I think we should take this into account in our assessment that when we got to this salmon agreement, which, in my opinion, is really a trick, it was with one voice's overweight in the Commission that it was possible to get them to decide not to introduce a criminal duty to Norway at about. 14 pst. Had they done so, the world would have looked significantly different for salmon industry than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e709	Let me first repeat from my post that I think it would be wise for the Council of State to follow the priorities set in the Statkorn setting, in terms of who will have the first concessions. So I want to go to this with ownership. New, tightened rules are needed here, and they are needed quickly. To avoid hearing the answer again from the Workers' Party, I would first of all like to say: I believe there is no contradiction between the fact that Norwegian companies buy themselves out and the fact that we want local and national owners. I believe it must be entirely right for other countries to decide even if they would welcome foreign capital and competence if they needed it, and say no thanks, I think Norwegian companies should respect it. And I think foreign companies and the EU should respect that if we say no. The Hydro Seafood sale was a shock – that it could happen. We have to do something, because if this is going to repeat itself and repeat itself, we could risk McDonald's and a few other companies controlling our coast. We have to look forward, look at what might happen. The Norwegian people do not want the foreigners to control our coastal zone. The opposite must happen. The government will care about that, and the Storting will care about it. In this way the coast can have a flowering season, and I believe that we must then give priority to local ownership. Then young people will see that here's safe jobs, and we'll get a different recruitment than it seems to be now. Coastal municipalities will receive their tax revenues, and they will have jobs to offer their youth. But it's urgent. And the question is, will the Council of State now ensure that we quickly get a better instrument to regulate ownership, or is it important to wait until the new Law on Maritime Agriculture comes in a long, long time?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e722	The issue of ownership limitation has been at the hearing. The proposals that have been at the hearing have had an upper limit of 10 pst., with the possibility of going up to both 15 pst. and 20 pst. in special cases where it is obvious that communities are served by crossing this border. Furthermore, the proposals have been made to ensure that there should be no majority voting at regional level, i.e. that no one should own more than 50 pst. Some of this is a little bit controversial, and we'll see about that. But it's about a very short time before I come back with how this should be done. When you look at the possibilities of awarding new concessions, I would like you to have a little longer-term perspective. I don't think it's that simple, as the representative Lund said in his main post, that one can now decide that all those who have one concession will get three. There are 78 one concessionaires, and it's not possible to distribute 156 new concessions. Then the market regulation of the salmon industry will collapse, and I assume that nobody wants it. You might want to have the full freedom to decide who should be the owner of the industry. I think we have to assume that you don't have the full freedom. We also have to assume that we have had foreign ownership of the Norwegian fishing industry for many, many years. Who does not remember Nestlé, who has been a good and faithful owner for many years, and it has been in our interest. I firmly believe that Norway as a farming nation is going to be an international actor, because we are very good at aquaculture. The industry is going to grow internationally, starting with Norway, because we're good enough to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e731	Governments and many with him have reiterated their belief in the future in the aquaculture industry. But all developments depend on certain assumptions being in place. An important prerequisite in this industry, too, is access to labour and competence. The fight for the youth is going to last. Marine farming is a district industry, and secondary school provision is often in the districts that have such an industry. At the same time, we have a huge centralization and urbanization right now, so that there is a hard fight about youth, and high school is struggling to get recruiting just to these lines, despite the great prospects that industry has in the future. That is why I repeat that I am very happy that it opens up for schools to receive farming concessions in order to provide a good offer in the educational context. But it's urgent to get this in place, and my question is, How far has the Council of State got in its thinking and preparations, in terms of concessions to schools and concessions in connection with education? A new school year begins in the autumn, and given the importance of signals that planning can begin. The other area to which it is important to give signals is the planning of areas in the municipalities. There will always be a conflict of interest between using the coastal zone, including commercial interests and outdoor interests. I have received signals that I want to communicate further, from municipalities that ask if it has any intention of planning for business activity, and that say it is more important for them to take into account outdoor interests in order to get people to live there to get tax revenue. It is important to give incentives and signals that it is important to plan for economic development. Can I get some comments from the Council of State on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e740	I am pleased that the representative Kongshaug pointed to the great challenge we have in securing the workforce for the industry. I think the most important thing we can do to ensure this is that we are able to visualize the industry's potential for future generations. I think we are going into a tough future, where labour supply in Norway is relatively modest, and where the supply of attractive jobs is relatively large. There we have a huge challenge. But we also have to look at other instruments. If we are to be able to take out the potential that goes into further processing, we also need to use technology to realize this. That is why, on the current year's budget, we have specifically encouraged SINTEF and Norconserv to address these challenges and contribute to our progress. In the case of concessions to schools, I assume that what you're talking about all the time is educational concessions, demonstration purposes, on a small scale. We're working on this, but it has nothing to do with any new awards of commercial concessions. We're able to do this anyway. So for land-use planning. I think, as I have said many times, that if the municipalities do not take their responsibilities and facilitate economic development, then one has made a choice and said that they want to use their areas for something else. Then it must be our and the economic operators' job to get the municipalities to see the potential that lies in the aquaculture industry. If you want to use the areas of open-air life, it's a good thing, but you can't expect to get permission and organisation from the public if you give it a different priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e751	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e755	Unfortunately, I was not present when the Council of State had explained this matter, but I have gone through the agricultural policy statement that exists. The presentation is very little concrete in my opinion. Things that are controversial, and that have special meaning, are not really said anything material about, except that you work on the issues and have to come back with solutions since. This applies in particular to the environment, land, production growth and production regulation. To regulate the production of salmon, feed quotas were introduced in 1996. I agree with this tool – it is perhaps the only effective tool in this context. However, now feed quotas have been increased for each year, without an increase in the volume of the mermaids being equivalent. This can't possibly go on indefinitely, so it has to do something about it, because the result of putting more fish in these mermaids will only be stress, with disease-related diseases. Should one, for example: increase feed quotas by 10 pst. therefore, for each year, the volume has to be increased accordingly, or it has to be set free from farmers. The only right thing to do would probably be to set it free, but the assumption then had to be that the feed quotas were maintained. Now, however, new concessions are to be opened up, as the Minister for Fisheries has said, and the question is whether there are enough premises in individual municipalities for everyone to have their wishes fulfilled. A small factor is that when feed quotas increase by 10 pst. Every year, and we have approx. 850 concessions in this country correspond to an increase of 85 new concessions. This has not been given any particular attention, but that is the reality. When feed quotas are increased, the concessions are increased accordingly. As a result, 85 new concessions are automatically awarded for the year. We know that there are listed companies that have up to 100 concessions. That is, they will have an increase of ten concessions for the year. Well, that's suspicious. It is also strange that the municipalities are going to facilitate these new concessions, while the profits are going to fall to the state. It is the same as that if I own a house and I am responsible for it, the government will run away with the rent. That's pretty similar. This is a very bad morale toward the municipalities. It is also of particular concern that this general view of fish is open to large participations. The Ministry of Fisheries should find a solution so that there could be some distribution of this cake. We are also witnessing that salmon concessions are traded for 40-50 million. kr. That's crazy. I still demand the morale of this. Does the Council of Fisheries think that this is a good socialist policy? And what do the Fisheries Councils actually intend to do with that relationship?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e772	Our long coastline and marine wealth have always been important, but in recent years we have also seen great opportunities for further value creation. The sea has enormous possibilities. The example of crowballs is just one of many. The strange and frail, round the creatures with sharp spikes crawling around in the beach zone, it's really going to feed up to become a snack for the conscious Japanese. They've eaten thousands of tons of this. In addition, we have a bunch of shells we can use for food for people. Then comes the breeding of a lot of other marine species as well. This is also why the Minister for Fisheries stressed the importance of a clean marine environment and good health to provide us with safe and healthy food. Norway's brand of marine resources must be that this is the purest and best food in the world. This sea of opportunities will be an important regional policy instrument that will help to create a diversity of jobs and maintain coastal settlements. We all have the natural benefits to offer. Now it's about doing it the right way. A good coastal zone planning will provide a good basis for the job creation of the coastal population. We need to know both what areas and environments will affect development. I would like to add here that it is of course important that such planning should also be organised for all other users of the coastal zone, for example. coastal and recreational fishermen. Access to, and knowledge of, the markets and ability to meet the price, quality, stability and continuity requirements of deliveries are also essential for the industry and business operators to be able to take advantage of this possibility. Much of this base is already present. In addition, the coastal population has knowledge, extensive practical experience and tradition to exploit and adapt to the opportunities of our resource base. The Minister has taken this seriously in his statement on aquaculture policy. This provides a framework for the success of the industry from the public point of view. In the part of the country from which I come, the fishing industry is of great importance and employment is the largest. But this has not been enough to secure housing or to provide attractive jobs for both women and men. One of Finnmark's advantages is our proximity to the world's most productive fishing areas, but also an unused and clean coast with significant opportunities for development in aquaculture. In addition, we do not have algae plagues in the same way as other parts of the country. A new growth in this industry could strengthen established environments and create new jobs also in small coastal communities. I believe that in the case of North Norway, there is a need to develop comprehensive value creation environments. Not least, it is important that the development of new technologies and research comes to areas that have not been interesting in the past. Therefore, it is also important for Finnmark that progress in the setting up of the Villakscommittee does not prevent the granting of farming concessions to this group. Should this new development in aquaculture, which we all talk so much about, become a reality – with people who live and also live in smaller coastal communities – it is an important element that must be present: there must be development and career opportunities for both sexes in this industry, which is not present today. No, the proportion of women who see a future here is decreasing. As politicians, we have to be able to do something about that. We clearly need women in all parts of the industry. Women are a resource, and the diversity of women in both experience and education is necessary, even in this part of our business environment. We know that a diversity of competences is important in order to become competitive. Here we have women to contribute. Our challenge is to get women into positions in the industry for which they have no tradition. It is necessary to motivate and facilitate that enterprises and professional organisations will provide training for women, among others. at work. The goal must be an exciting industry where women too seem to be attractive. The value-creating programme for aquaculture must include a woman’s perspective. Research has shown us that eating seafood brings good health benefits, that there is a link between marine fat and good health. Yes, even our brains have a good deal of it. That's why I'm going to end up saying, "Eat seafood and fish, and you're not just getting fresher, but also wiser!"
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e793	The statement by the Minister of Fisheries clearly shows that the aquaculture industry has a high potential. The potential is the largest north of the country. That's where we have the largest vacant areas. Focusing on farming in the north will be a good district policy and, in addition, a cheap district policy. The districts have been declining in the population for a long time, but farming can help to give the districts a new gift, as we have seen in some other areas. In some areas, infrastructure needs to be improved in order to benefit from farming opportunities. It is important that manufacturers reach their products in good time, and then the road network must be in order. Roads must withstand the heavy traffic resulting from the farming industry, and it must also be bridged beyond the brewing times of the day. In addition, there are areas that need full-year road status, so that they are accessible in all ways. It is reassuring that the Minister said that the management of aquaculture should be strengthened. Then it is important that we have a government that is not an obstacle to the development of the industry, but rather a driver and supporter. The Minister said that new concessions should be paid for the production of salmon and trout. I agree with that, but in order to achieve a level playing field, it should be considered that consideration should also be given to established concessions. I see no reasonable reason why the well-established cannot pay for the use of the land, while those who receive new allocations have to pay. In some way it is necessary to achieve a balance in this area so that it does not distort competition. A problem that may hinder the good development of the industry will be the lack of smolt, and not least the lack of good quality smolt. It is therefore necessary to make an extra effort to get more melting plants going. Finnmark has, for example: only three smelt plants, so it is especially in Finnmark the absence of good smelt is best noticed. It's often a long way from the melting plants, getting a maybe second and third sorting, and it's not necessarily going to be the best result of it -- it has a lot of examples of it. Similarly, it must be set up to produce smolts from local populations. It is the local populations that have the best chances of achieving a good result. Starting with breeding, we know that we need big investments. Similarly, it is for the production of smelt. 30-40 million. it costs to start a fairly large production of smelt. Therefore, both the SND and the ordinary banking community must also be willing to participate in the financing, in particular for those who are new entrepreneurs in an exciting and forward-looking industry. When you talk about funding, I've noticed in the debate that some people are a little skeptical about what they call foreign capital. In the case of Finnmark, at least I know exactly two places that depend entirely on the foreign capital that has gone into the farming side. There you are very pleased with the actors who are on the track. It's about Bug Eyes and Skånes. Both places think I would have looked completely different if it wasn't for getting serious actors with foreign capital and believing that something could be done in the districts. These examples, I think, are to be taken forward in building up the farming industry, especially in the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e810	When former fisheries minister Jan Henry T. Olsen at the beginning of the 1990s said that fishing industries would export 30 billion dollars in 10-15 years, few believed it. But today it is a reality. And this very day, while we've been discussing here in the Chamber, the first figures for 2001 have come from the Fish Export Committee. The figures show that never started a year as well as 2001. If the increase continues this way, it might only take two years to achieve the next target, an export value of NOK 40 billion. Something has happened in the Norwegian fishing industry in the last few years. Not only do statistics show good numbers, but optimism and pride have come back to the industry. Now everyone says it's the fishing industry we're going to live on in the future – it's the fishing industry that's going to be in the future. The so-called SINTEF report has outlined an opportunity, and I believe that this possibility must be made a vision for Norway. If we're to achieve such a vision, we're not just dependent on raw materials, we also have to provide access to at least three types of capital: human capital, knowledge capital and venture capital. Firstly, a key challenge in the future is to ensure that human capital does not restrict development. There are many places where there is a shortage of labour in the fishing industry, and for example: in Finland, there is a strong desire for increased labour supply from Russia. Second, we need to increase our knowledge of the industry. That is why we need to focus on both education and research. When Stortinget dealt with the research report, there was a broad consensus that we need to step up research efforts in general, and marine research must be a particular field of activity. This has already produced results. Of the 90 million. In 2000, around one third of the funds were allocated to marine research. The appropriations allocated to the State budget have increased. The Labour Party Government proposed to the State budget for this year an innovation programme for the commercial exploitation of marine resources. And not least, it's important that the Government has signed a contract for the construction of a new research vessel. These are important and good measures, but they are not enough. We have to increase the bet strongly in the years that are coming. The fishing industry is a district industry and one of the main challenges ahead is to ensure that the emergence of research-based industries does not lead to a centralisation of the value creation of the marine sector. As a staging representative, one of my heart issues has been strengthening Nord-Norway's research share. Today, some 18 billion dollars are being researched in Norway. In North Norway, about $1 billion is being researched. If this figure were to be in proportion to the population, we would have to double it. When there is now a broad consensus on increasing the allocation of marine research, it is important that we also have a regional policy perspective on this initiative. Norway's fishing high school is currently a leader in the breeding of cod, kelvins and mortars. The experience of Norway's fishing high school is that they have succeeded best when they have cooperated with industry. At the same time – and that is my third point – there is a lack of risk capital, and there is a lack of actors that can link the research communities with such risk capital. One way that has been launched to meet this challenge is through the creation of so-called strategic companies, i.e. companies that have knowledge of both nutrition and capital. And in order to reduce the risk to private investors and increase the number of private individuals on the track, the State should also address risk-absorption. In the context of the treatment of the 2001 State Budget, the Workers' Party and the Centre agreed that the Government would return to the Stortingen with a case on how the State can strengthen access to venture capital and equity in this innovative research-based business. And in the comments to the nutrition committee, the biomarine sector is highlighted. I believe this is a very important matter to engage in, including for the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e834	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e837	Rogaland and Skagerrak are proposed as a single region in the proposal for a regulation on ownership restrictions. The reason given by the Minister for Fisheries in reply to written questions is that this region has a total of only 68 authorisations. I agree with the Minister for Fisheries that this is too few, but it has an excellent opportunity for the Minister for Fisheries to do something about the forthcoming round of concessions. What is nevertheless worrying is that such a combination of the regions could have negative consequences for those companies that are already strongly within the region. The second is that – especially from the Rogaland side – there is also concern that some of the restrictions in the Skagerrak area will also apply to Rogaland. It is simply difficult to find a good reason why these two areas, where the environment is so far apart, have been proposed together, if there is no reason to believe that these regions should also be used for things other than imposing ownership restrictions. So I could imagine that the Minister for Fisheries, if he is to have the floor later, will address these issues. I have recorded that some of those who have made hearing statements in connection with the regulation are also sceptical. Then you get into a concessional round. And in that round, in my opinion, it is essential that Rogaland receives a significant share of the concessions that are then to be awarded. During the last few rounds, the county has come out poorly, and there has been a significant distribution of bias. At the same time, there have been great opportunities. There is a strong professional environment, ranging from research carried out on Norconserv, to having the most important environment in relation to both equipment and feed production. There are a number of island municipalities that depend entirely on this activity, there are considerable investments in reception facilities, and there is also a lot of pioneering work here in the new farming areas, among others. in relation to shellfish. In addition, the area has a major advantage through its closeness to the largest market, and in fact, production in Rogaland reaches the market one day before that of the rest of the country. And that in itself should be a reason for increasing production in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e846	Marine farming is the major field of investment for future value creation in Norway, but its potential depends on the framework conditions under which the Storting provides the industry and on which trade agreements the Government succeeds in negotiating. The Council of State statement contains important elements to be taken into account by the Storting, but lacks the deepening of other elements of great importance for profitability and the diverse further development of overall marine competence environments. The Labour Party has simplification of the administration as one of its main issues. Nevertheless, the State Councils are alerting new areas for future control, regulation and reporting for aquaculture – pure bureaucracy food – which can also act as a barrier to research and development related to aquaculture. Norwegian aquaculture has grown without special detailed regulation and has evolved into world leaders. Norwegian seafood has a good reputation on the market, and the nutritionists themselves are more concerned than any other with the quality of the product they deliver. They themselves are interested in ensuring that the industry is environmentally sound in the broadest sense. These are aspects on which the market will increasingly be concerned. It is therefore unnecessary to establish bureaucratic legislation to address these issues. The responsibility and self-justice of the industry have shown good results so far. To the extent that new legislation is to be developed, it must be because the industry itself sees the need for it. Norwegian business is initially congested with a control and reporting form. It'll hold. For coastal people, the sea has always been the source of income and the basis of life. This should also be the case in the future, but it will have to be made possible in the context of aquaculture to develop overall marine environments of competence in the areas where aquaculture is operated, i.e. locally. Local ownership is then important and should be a condition for the granting of a concession. However, the return potential is high enough to allow local owners to attract external capital and external owners within the framework of the relationship between local and external ownership that the Storting must determine. To the extent that a concession is required, the right to grant a concession must be transferred from the department to the regional level and based on the coastal zone plans drawn up and approved by the ministry. Concessions in relation to local or regional anchorages avoid free-of-charge concessions and are sold with high profits to external purchasers who are not as interested in the further development of communities as local owners are. It is necessary to facilitate the possibility for aquaculture to produce ring-effects in the form of links with and opportunities for innovation in local business. Different forms of concession fee have been discussed. It should be rejected. Instead, the income from local business must be attributed to the communities in which the industries operate. If business throughout the country is to develop for the benefit of all of us, the taxes on production must be returned to the municipalities. Only then can it be expected that local entrepreneurs and politicians will be given the necessary incentives to develop local food potential. A development in which both business owners and business profit managers are far from production businesses is unfortunate in relation to the opportunities offered by aquaculture for the development, life and housing of those parts of the country where values are actually created.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e863	Norway is the world’s largest exporter of seafood. From the statement we can read that 95 pst. production goes to markets outside Norway. In the newspaper Nordlys on February 7, we could read that Tromsø is the second largest fish in Norway, and that Ålesund is on a sovereign first place. Then they place themselves close together, the coastal communities from Finnmark and down to Rogaland. In other words, the future of the coastal population is being debated today, and if we believe the forecasters, the aquaculture industry will face a bright future if the right measures are taken. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that a well-functioning transport network will be essential to transport Norwegian seafood from producers along the coast to markets. In this way, it is interesting that the Committee on Transport is about to give its opinion on the national transport plan. Transport policy and industrial policy are in many ways two sides of the same coin. The economy buys transport for about 45 billion kroner a year. It's going to be 8 pst. of the total costs of industry and has a significant impact on value creation, profitability and productivity, including in the aquaculture industry. The longer the distance to markets, the more expensive transport costs. Fisheries and aquaculture are particularly dependent on good infrastructure. The Christian People's Party will have increased investment in port development and the development of the secondary road network along the coast to meet the developments we expect in the aquaculture industry. Transport policy provides the necessary framework conditions to contribute to new jobs in districts and to the development of local communities along our long-term coast. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that industry's needs for good infrastructure are likely to be too low in the cost-benefit models used to prioritise the transport project. The savings in travel time of persons are relatively high in the cost-benefit analyses, while the time value of goods is set at zero. It counts high to be alone in the private car in line on E18, while it counts zero to be stuck with a fully loaded trailer with salmon on the Korgen mountain on a winter day. Transport quality, accessibility and predictability of industrial transport are almost not priced in current cost-benefit analyses. That is why I would like to challenge the Minister for Fisheries, who in his statement just points to the importance of good infrastructure for the aquaculture industry, to look at the basis of the cost-benefit analysis and ensure that business transport is given greater importance. For the aquaculture industry, it is a matter of arriving in time for fresh products. Delays lead to a reduction in the price and loss of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e878	There were two things in the debate that I feel the need to say something about. One is this relationship to the new production regulation model that we have described. I would like to make it clear that what is contained in the new proposal is to take into account the well-being and well-being of the fish by not having an upper volume to deal with in the mermaids. We want to have a maximum density, to have a production that does not exceed what the locality tolerates, and to have a feed quota. The breeder will then have a better opportunity to adapt the operation to his locality, so that the fish is best suited. This is a much better measure than moving at these limits the number of cubics to be in each concession. The second thing I want to say is that it is important to say that it is not added up to an increased red tape of the industry. On the contrary, simplification of the checks to be carried out in the industry is envisaged. And not enough with that, this is going to be the government and industry doing together. So I would like to make two comments on proposal No. 2 available. It is such that a significant industry activity is already taking place in order to recover as feed and for other uses by-products from the Norwegian fishing industry. One project is RUBIN, which has been launched as an authority initiative taken over by the industry itself and partly financed by the fisheries agreement between the Norwegian Fisheries Team and the State. Today we place such by-products on the market for approx. 900 million. kr, and those who work on this, assume that the potential is approx. 5 billion kroner. It is also the case that some of the progress in new feed materials is being made in a process, and this is happening in the Research Council. Similarly, with regard to the proposal for money for risk capital: it already exists. Numario is one example of this, which goes on new marine species. It is a joint effort by the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Food and Trade and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to address the challenges where research ends and the SND instruments have not started to work, but they will be put in place this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e893	I just feel the need to comment a little on the suggestions available from SV. But first of all, I want to be a little helpful to the representative of Kristiansen, so he's not going to get lost in the opinion of the Central Party on the Statkorn case. He should know that we did not support that capital expansion on the part of the Central Party. As regards the previous government's position with the Hydro Seafood case, that government had to leave before that sale was in place. It was too early to respond to it. The central party would have reacted to it. What the government would have done, we would see if the Right had allowed that government to sit still. The debate today has been an answer to a few decisions in Stortinget, among others. to submit a valuation plan for the aquaculture industry. We've come a little bit on the way, but we need quick feedback, which we've been through, on several points. The proposals of the SV concern part of those points. The centre party will not vote in favour of those proposals, but we do not entirely disagree with all of them. As regards proposal No: 1, the Central Party wants us to make sure that the concessions become speculative through local ownership when awarding and reselling the new concessions. We think it's a much better system than we having to put in place a system of State pre-emption rights. With regard to proposals Nos. 2 and 3, the state council also said what I was going to say. We have arrangements today. This with feed access to the aquaculture industry can become a minimum factor and it forces itself to use all available feed. But, of course, priority should be given to what should be for human food. As regards proposal No: 4, the central parties described in the Statkorn setting have more precisely who should be given priority in the award of new concessions, so we think it's a little strange to vote in favour of that proposal. With regard to the proposal to impose remuneration, the central party is against it, because we believe that there should be free allocations, and that consideration should be required for resale, and we still hope that there may also be a proposal from the Government at this point. That is the way to do it that ensures the best access for new actors. It is the way that will ensure that this does not become primarily for those who have the most capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e910	This is a debate that we are looking forward to, because the aquaculture industry is a very positive and offensive industry. But in this debate I have allowed myself to be a little critical, because I have a motto: where everyone agrees, there it might be a little bit small. I think we might also have had some contributions from the Finance Committee, because I think when we talk about access to capital for local entrepreneurs, in order to ensure that they continue to retain these rights, perhaps the AS-certification of savings banks is as important for the development of local ownership as many of the measures we are talking about. I have talked about this with the fact that coastal zone planning should be modernised, and that there are many who experience this as a cutting privatisation of the coastal zone. In fact, we are demanding the Law of the Sea and in other contexts that it should be a coastal zone plan. The only way today to have proper local governance can actually be not to plan, because once one has left off planning, players cannot come from the outside and apply for rights that some local actors may have imagined, but one must have a little more time. So I think the coastal zone plans need to be linked to a local right of control and preference in order to get more speed on this planning. In fact, I think there are considerable fears in the coastal communities that in a very short time these rights will be owned by someone who lives 200 miles away. Knowledge is very much required. It takes time to build up knowledge, and you have to respect that. There are also major requirements for cooperation in order to make these management systems work. I would like to emphasise this once again with the need to develop a governance system for this that decentralises the decisions and that the community or regions have a more active role, because I believe in the local community's ability to build skills and build industrial systems and industrial systems with both local owners and outsiders. I believe in the local commitment and the ability of the community to control its own future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e924	The infrastructure of the coast and the transport costs associated with its use are essential elements for the price competitive conditions of Norwegian seafood. Society must be willing to invest in efficient and user-friendly infrastructure along the coast. It is completely meaningless that Norwegian seafood is to be transported around Oslo before it is sent onto the market. Today it is much cheaper to drive from the coast to Oslo than to drive from farming facilities to organised coastal port areas. The State must take a greater share of the cost of road, bridge and tunnel development along the coast. Only in this way can the transport be channelled away from the bypass of Oslo, where it stops the traffic years, and to maritime transport. In the long run, both the Oslo area and the communities along the coast will serve on it. If maritime transport is to compete with trailer transport, it is necessary to do something about the high charges imposed on coastal cargo today. Loads carried on refrigerators are unduly charged for charges and charges that are in addition to the toll costs the load has already been charged through expensive driving on a toll-capped road network. The Ministry of Transport has done the art of presenting a long-term transport plan without including an adequate investigation into shipping and port logistics, despite the fact that it would be both environmentally and cost-effective to distort the export from wheels to keel. A good infrastructure in the areas where export values are created will be essential for the competitiveness of Norwegian seafood. We have to take the necessary infrastructure promises to keep our markets, otherwise our products will be priced out. The country’s export surplus must be returned to the value added areas to a greater extent than at present, so that good export ports can be reached without having to pass more and more roadside tolls from the place of production to the port of embarkation. This, too, is part of a long-term policy on aquaculture, and I miss the deepening of these relationships that one had expected in connection with a statement on aquaculture policy, because aquaculture policy is also a policy on transport in the broadest sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e938	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e946	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e1005	During the debate, Mr Reikvam presented five proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to present a separate State pre-purchase right case in the case of the sale of concession rights. The case is to be referred to the Grand Duchy during 2001. 2 reads:‘The Government asks the Government to intensify its research efforts so that new raw materials and better exploitation of fish waste are used for feed production. The Government is asked to establish a plan to gradually replace raw material of human value with other raw material in feed production. The plan is to be submitted to the Stortinget no later than spring 2002. 3 reads:‘The government is asking the government, in the context of the 2002 State budget, to allocate high-risk capital to investment in projects at the idea stage. The funds should be channelled through SND.’ 4 reads:‘The Government is asking for priority to be given to new and smaller actors in the award of new concessions in 2001.’ 5 sounds: ‘The decision already requires the Government to introduce a compensation scheme in the event of a concession award in 2001. The compensation should mainly be paid to the municipalities where the facilities are set up.» Then the president will ask if there are anyone who wants the floor for an explanation of vote – and that is it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e1031	Just a short explanation of vote. In the case of proposal No: 1, I will urge the Labour Party to vote against. In the case of proposals No. In the course of the debate, the Minister for Fisheries has done well to ensure that these are processes that are already in progress. I therefore believe that the two proposals will also be voted against. In the case of proposal No: 4, it is already effective, and when it comes to proposal No. 5, it's for evaluation. So I ask that the Labour Party's group vote against all of these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e1036	In the interview with the transport plan, it is not so easy to get involved in the debates, but as far as I understand, proposal No. 5 come as a matter before Easter, the proposals No. 2 and 3 are in progress, and proposal No. 4 is already effective. I would ask that we have a motion for a resolution on proposal No. 1 and send the rest, to make it easy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e1041	The President may recommend, since we have now referred to the consideration of proposals submitted to the Government without a vote of intent, that the proposals be drawn up equally.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e1044	All right, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e1049	That is when the proposals are no. 2, 3, 4, and 5. Then there will be a motion for a resolution on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-08.ana.ud1394e1060	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Fisheries at the Stortingen meeting on 23 January 2001 on aquaculture be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
