ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e50	From 11 June to 15 June in order to attend meetings of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Washington and Boston, there is an application from the representative John Dale for leave. The first alternate for the Hordaland County, Bjørg Hope Galtung, is currently abroad and for that reason prevented from meeting in the Stortinget. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. Other alternates of Hordaland, Magnar Lussand, are invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Magnar Lussand is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of John Dale.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e76	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e90	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right and Advance Party 10 minutes each, Center Party, Socialist Left Party, Left, Twist People's Party and one of the independent representatives 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e101	Today, the size joins the main features of the Government’s Communication on the State Enterprise and District Development Fund, SND. This is an important message, which is about facilitating the extraction of the most important resource we have in the country, namely human resources in terms of innovation and working capacity. The message is offensive, bearing the title of ‘SND: New Give, New Growth, New Business’. This gives positive and forward-looking associations. The message reads: ‘The objective of the economic policy is to maximise Norway’s ability to value by facilitating competitive and profitable enterprises and high value-added industries.’ It is a high and demanding objective, which requires many and coordinated action. SND is an important tool to achieve the industrial policy objectives. The notification takes full action to achieve these objectives. SND shall promote business and socio-economic profitable business development both in the districts and in the rest of the country. SND shall promote innovation and innovation-based business development by finding, processing, financing and following up interesting projects and businesses in most industries throughout the country. SND's cooperation with, inter alia: Norway’s Research Council, Norway’s Export Council, SIVA and a number of other organisations need to be further developed and strengthened. The SND shall assist business with both capital and competence, and the work shall focus primarily on small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs and offer offers which are not covered by the private market. Equity is offered from the subsidiary SND Invest AS, which is one of several equity instruments. SND Invest is in the board of directors of many companies where they have holdings. This shall ensure the necessary long-termity and transfer of competence to the enterprises. It is the opinion of the Committee that since the institution was established, SND has performed its tasks well. The funds have mainly gone to the intended objectives and target groups. It shows an evaluation. The new challenges posed by the development of the Norwegian economy, which require a new approach, must be based on the good experience gained. It is important that efforts in the future are focused on contributing to increased innovation capacity and higher competences in Norwegian business. Such concentration of efforts is necessary to follow up the ambitions of the research Communication. Schemes need to be more flexible and district offices need to become good gateways to the country’s industrial instruments. Today's industrial policy needs to be better adapted to the challenges we face, with increasing competition in an international market. For this reason, the need for innovation and empowerment needs to be more offensively addressed in the future. Enterprise feedback suggests that enterprises are most satisfied with the activities where SND has an active and outreach role, and the Committee feels that this must be done to a greater extent than at present. It should be emphasised that the long-term impact of investing in industrial development should be based on a time horizon of five to ten years. Policy needs to be put in place to support the actions that are thought to be most important to the ability to value in several years and to maintain priorities. The Committee considers it desirable that the funds allocated and made available should be included in a long-term perspective. Norway currently has a high share of employment in small and medium-sized enterprises. This implies greater public participation in areas such as competence, networking and funding. It will be the responsibility of the authorities to ensure that the instrument performs such tasks. Here, SND is a central actor. Today, labour appears to be a scarcity factor. In this context, it is important that jobs are forward-looking and that a large proportion of them have a high level of performance in order to ensure future Norwegian welfare. Enterprise policy must be based on local assumptions with a view to enabling viable and innovative enterprises to develop. It is therefore an important step that is now being taken through the new model of regional governments and through the granting of decision-making powers to regional governments. Enhanced interaction between county and SND and other actors is important and necessary. It is an objective that Norwegian companies should have competitive framework conditions. It is essential that small and medium-sized enterprises have access to research and development schemes and instruments which are at least as good as other countries with which it is natural to compare. Women are an important resource for Norwegian business. Women shall be a priority target group within the SND district-oriented instruments. Women in business both contribute to increased value creation and secure housing in districts. I would also like to point out that design is specifically mentioned as a competitive factor, and that this should be an integral part of SND's assessments. The district office structure has been positive and brought the tool closer to the customer. In order to achieve even better effects, SND should make more use of its instruments on customers’ premises and improve coordination of instruments from other actors. This should also be seen in the context of the fact that the regional offices are now given a decision-making authorisation, as I mentioned earlier. The broad lines of the Communication are agreed within the Committee. I assume that the other parties will explain their particular comments and positions. In the Workers' Party, we believe that the system of tax incentives for research and development should wait until the new grant scheme, called the FUNN, takes effect for a while. The scheme is a product of the budget agreement between the Centre and the Workers' Party from this harvest. In addition, a grant scheme will be more transparent and will make R & D investment more visible, which is important for the subsequent evaluation and weighing-up of the scheme in relation to priority objectives. The working party has with some amazement recorded that there is a reluctance to continue and strengthen the conditional grant scheme. This scheme could bring funds back to SND from companies that are going well, funds that can be used again on other projects. The suspicion is also about the reluctance to be able to assess whether the current organisation of the SVO is the most appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e155	Of course, the SND Storing Communication allows us to address different issues related to the SND, but it also opens up to address other issues that are important in business policy, not least issues that are important for small and medium-sized enterprises, and issues that are important for industrial development in the districts. I want to give the department an honor to the message. It follows up the Storting's previous intentions and is at all a good review of SND. It is also fun that an institution like SND has been through an evaluation that gives as good feedback as the evaluation of SND provides. Nevertheless, there is always room for improvement, and it is also obvious that as dynamic as industrial development is, as strongly as internationalization, globalisation, affects us, we must constantly make flexible arrangements. A small, happy thing that this setting asks for is also a stronger focus on entrepreneurial activity, innovation and research. In the case of the founder enterprise, SND is required to assume a primary responsibility for a basic financing of the youth enterprise scheme and some other measures in relation to it. Swedish studies show that, in fact, there are five times as many of the young people who have been in an organization of youth establishments that are being established, than others. So to some specific point. There are other speakers who want to raise other points from the Christian People's Party. The government accepts the authority of the regional government in the message. The size has previously suggested that the SND government in the counties be given decision-making powers in all cases. This has been followed up by the Government. The government has also proposed a change in the composition of the government. They want two political members, one from the NHO and one from the LO, two from the organisations within the primary industries and three free members. In these days, the size takes the position of the division of tasks between the state, the state and the municipalities. From the Christian People's Party's side, we are content that counties will have a more important role to play in regional development and spatial planning. This can also play a more important role in the development of business in the region. We believe it is gratifying that we can at the same time secure the stately rule of SND more real power. From the Christian People's Party's side, we want to formalize the connection between the county councils and the SND government. Therefore, we will give the county the right to appoint – not just propose – its candidates to the state government. However, it is crucial that those in the state governments have business skills and that they have confidence in business crunches. Therefore, we do not agree with the proposal that the county should appoint the entire board. We've noticed that SND has an inhumanly large amount of target formulations they're initially going to consider. I agree that it is necessary to simplify the target structure. But from the Christian People's Party's side, we'll warn you that one no longer has a particular focus on agriculture. SND has taken over tasks that were previously more directly linked to agriculture, including: The agricultural bank. Agriculture differs from other industries, and it is absolutely crucial that SND continues to have a specific focus on agriculture. The governance of my activities targeted at fisheries and agriculture will expand the area of activity in order to contribute to a broader nutrient base and to a higher innovation activity. I agree that it is important to ensure a broader nutrient base and to increase innovation activity, but this should not be done by making less resources available for the traditional purposes of agriculture and fisheries. I would like to say that it is very gratifying that the majority of the committee here decides that one should implement all the proposals of the Hervik Committee. The government's proposal is a good step. But if we are to achieve the ambitious objectives we have jointly seen, it is absolutely necessary that we also implement the arrangements that are proposed here today, which is a tax-deductibility scheme for valid research. If we don't do this, we will lose competitiveness, and SND's instruments will not have that good impact. So I want to say, although it is a good message, a good attitude and a good job from the case spokesman, it is the most pleasing thing that is happening here today, that the majority of the Stortinge decided that Hervik's selection should be implemented. Thus, there is hope that we can achieve the goal that we have seen when it relates to the research message and its treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e176	It was a happy Jon Lilletun we heard now. He was pleased with most of what was in the message and so far in the setting, and SND is met with a wall of goodwill in the message and perhaps enhanced in the setting. I would assume that those who work in the SND have less recorded it in the annual budget negotiations with the same parties. Predictable framework conditions are the main contribution of the authorities to a profitable and innovative business. If Norway is to be an attractive country to invest in and operate from, the overall framework conditions must withstand international comparison. In a recently published yearbook, which shows the extent to which each country has facilitated a competitive business life, Norway ranks worse and worse. In the last four years, Norway has fallen from a fifth to a twentieth place on the list of competitive countries. In key areas such as taxation conditions, predictability, research and development, availability of skilled labour and entrepreneurship-friendly legislation, Norway is at a disadvantage. Instead of improving these key framework conditions, the Government of the current year’s budget has proposed, and has actually achieved the impact of record tax increases directly affecting the competitiveness of businesses. Compared to such basic framework conditions for value creation, the importance of SND for industrial development and innovation is limited. Therefore, the right will continue to prioritise better framework conditions for all businesses rather than corporate support through SND. On the other hand, a reformed SND can serve as a useful complement to good general framework conditions. I am pleased that the evaluation of SND’s activities carried out shows that the institution has successfully carried out its tasks since it was established in 1993. At the same time, it is important to consider that the many guidelines for SND’s activities can be contradictory and make it difficult to have a clear focus on SND’s work. And these conflicting objectives are probably worthy of Jon Lilletun's comment on an inhumane number of guidelines. I think there is a need to downgrade a more consistent objective for SND's work. Although the Government provides for greater flexibility in the use of instruments and points to innovation as an important field of activity, there is a lack of clarification as to which types of instruments SND should prioritise. Therefore, the announcement of the cancellation is largely marked by a race of obligations on the part of the Government. The activities of the SND are described, but few policy choices are made for future activities. The right considers that the objective of the instruments disseminated through the SND must be: 1. to create profitable enterprises that provide good and sustainable jobs2. to get the most private business out of each government crown3. ensuring that socio-economic projects also become economically viable by means of instruments such as grants, guarantees and risk loans; SND’s activities must be targeted at areas where the market and private offerings do not function properly. The evaluation indicates that the market failure is greatest in the development of skills for small and medium-sized enterprises. SND should therefore focus a significantly greater proportion of its efforts on empowerment and advice for innovation and small and medium-sized enterprises. The focus should be on addressing a situation of market failure in the credit market to focus more attention on market failures in the competence market. I believe that the stages of ideas, development and commercialisation are the most difficult stages in the development of businesses. In many cases, it is difficult to collect the necessary investment capital during this period. This is both because there are relatively few investors who are interested in and competent to assess the projects at such early stages and because many entrepreneurs are sceptical about sharing their ideas before they can be patented. Public participation in the form of direct grants, subordinated loans or guarantees may contribute to the success of many projects over this first knee. However, if one is to meet the most potentially profitable projects, it requires that the public has or is able to purchase skills that can assess the potential of the projects. SND should therefore concentrate its instruments on these phases in the lives of businesses. In this context, the seed model is an appropriate instrument. To the right, the funds of the Stortinget have been granted to a State investment company, rather than should be used to strengthen the scheme of the Seed Funds. However, we will come back to that in a later matter today. We have also shown that in some areas where business activity has already developed poorly, it can be difficult to find alternative uses of invested capital. As a consequence, the operating materials and other values associated with the local establishment are less appropriate for safety. The result is that banks and private investors hesitate to engage in projects with such a high risk. I believe that it is an objective to facilitate profitable business throughout the country, and therefore believe that in some cases it may be right for the public to relieve risks in such projects either through seed funds or by guaranteeing part of the loan amount. However, it should be stressed that such State risk relief must not weaken incentives for profitable operations and budgetary discipline for the company and the active involvement and follow-up of investors and credit institutions. For the same reason, the public should also not enter the owner’s side. Right wants the SND tool use to focus on five main elements: 1. support for empowerment, e.g. internationalisation, in small and medium-sized enterprises where this is not offered in the private market2. support and risk relief in the first phases of innovation projects3. risk relief in venture funds, as in the START and regional seed funds4. risk relief in projects with high potential but where the alternative use of capital is small5. socio-economical profitable joint projects, R & D, infrastructure, networking, etc. where the value of the action exceeds the value of each enterprise; Consequently, those parts of SND’s activities which compete with private credit intermediation, investment funds or development of competences should be discontinued. Therefore, the right wishes to liquidate the low-risk scheme, which operates to a large extent on the ordinary debt financing market, and SND Invest, which acts as strategic investors in mature enterprises. Grants, risk loan schemes and guarantee schemes should also be cultivated as support for innovation and businesses in the start-up phase. I'm going to deal with the proposals. 1, 2 and 3 in today's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e230	Ansgar Gabrielsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e233	The Progress Party is firmly committed to its primary view of the liquidation of SND, because we have no belief that these kinds of political structures can have any particular positive impact on business in general. Although there have been some changes in the tasks since the fund was established, and parts of SND’s operations have had some success, we do not believe that this is due to the overall impression. The Progress Party continues to claim that the billions circulated in the SND systems could be used to improve the tax and tax conditions of our businesses. The economic development will primarily result from the general framework conditions of the enterprises. Therefore, it is high time to implement a radical reorganisation of the transfer arrangements, including those that will help businesses in the short term. We had hoped that today, with relatively good access to capital for attractive projects and in a situation of risk of overheating the Norwegian economy, there would be more parties than the Progress Party that would reduce the massive capital injection that are largely selective, tax-funded guarantee, support and loan schemes. There is no passing: it is unfortunate when public authorities play a central role in industrial development through policy processes that can replace the market. We risk encouraging businesses that are unprofitable in the long term rather than more competitive projects that have greater prospects for creating a profitable business. It needs to be much better to replace today's state instruments with more entrepreneurial legislation and significantly lower taxes and taxes. In that case, the State funds may be replaced to a large extent by capital from private investors and financial institutions. However, a prerequisite for obtaining risk capital, including: to establishments in the districts is to have an understanding of the required profit margins. In order to improve access to capital, shares and deposits must not be taxed higher than in other countries. In other words, it must be more profitable to take risks and collect a profit. It is necessary to make more attractive and sensible investments in this type of activity. The time has come for the gradual replacement of the instrument through a turn towards more market and self-directed systems, the Progress Party believes. What's going on today? Indeed, during the start-up phase, the public takes back at least 40 cents of each krona invested in new activities, including: in the form of employer's taxes, personal taxes, value added tax on the value added of the company, investment taxes and municipal taxes, in order to have mentioned something. It's breaking a lot of entrepreneurs in the beginning. Or, to put it another way: the government's distribution policy removes the basis for entrepreneurs and industrialists, while the same authorities have to resort to funds and public funds to try to remedy the damage they themselves are doing. Politicians and bureaucrats have achieved something in addition. Establishments have been made dependent on public systems of institutional assistance and money support. That is why the Progress Party wants a different system. It must be more attractive to make investments and to collect a profit. Instead of public participation, it must be of interest to the demanding customer, the subcontractor and the environment around them. In this way, we get positive forces activated in a market system that bets its own money and not others. It is a political majority that prioritises the continuation and further development of SND as a central device of nutrition and district policy. Therefore, we want to express subsidiary positions and priorities and will be in touch with other parties in their comments on this. Within the existing instrument, we believe that funding for high-risk development projects should be given priority. I am thinking of areas where ordinary banking and financial services will not enter, but where there is at the same time a potential for sufficient returns for society. The possibility for SND to have a freer position with increased flexibility and investment in seed funds may be the way to go. Many suggest that in the early seed phase it is particularly critical to get the ideas to the stage where it is easier to obtain a commercial investment and where established venture companies are more active. Therefore, a significant proportion of the funds disposed of by the SND should be targeted at the early sowing phase of the development process. It is also important that the signals given regarding risk investment are seen in the context of the notification of investment company organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e250	I believe that the SND has come out of the evaluation, of the department's assessments and of the consideration of this communication by the Business Committee. Perhaps what is perceived as the most dramatic thing for SND's management, is the Central Party's proposal to move the headquarters from the Oslo area. The Centre Party has placed the most emphasis on the rest of the country, on the customers of SND and on the role of SND as an important precursor to the advice to be given to the Department and the Directorate. We think the SND will do a better job, and not least that the advice of government councils and others will be different if they come from an area of the country where values are mostly created. The challenges for SND today are no less than when SND was established. The area of responsibility has continued and the organisation has increased and is present in much more locations. The cooperation partners on the authority side have become more – the overall departments as well. The Fiskarbank and the Agricultural Bank are gone, and customers have come to SND. New state councils have come and gone, and they have launched their favorite program to be brought out to the people as soon as possible. Centralisation forces have not weakened, but unemployment has disappeared in many parts of the country. In some areas, the shortage of jobs remains high. At the same time, local ownership has decreased in these areas and therefore risk capital has become scarce. I have no doubt that the SND districts need the most. Capital is lacking, competence is lower, but opportunities are better. It's still from the districts of export. It's the coast that right now has the best opportunities for the big value-added. It's the interior that seems to lack the most power for innovation, and that's where extra effort needs to be put. The central parties want SND to play an important role in decentralisation – primarily by strengthening the business community in the districts. We want to give SND a new information task to realize the relocation of state jobs from Oslo that the Government says will happen. The municipalities will be told by the SND which jobs are to be provided by the Department and the Directorate. The companies will be told by the SND which services the country is to purchase and which can be provided by means of ICT. After all, there is good evidence that the country can operate cheaper by using labour that lives where wages and salaries are lower and where the labour force is more stable than in Oslo. The centre party is pleased with many of the actions launched in the three tasks, district policy and SND messages. Then it remains to carry out the good thoughts of centre of gravity shifting from the state level to the county and making each county municipality become the central developer, replace central management with local development programmes, increase cooperation and interaction in the county arena, and reduce detail management, supervision and reporting. This whole process of thinking must be able to release large resources in the department and the directorate. At the same time, resources need to be increased in SND and at the state level in order to become credible and long-term business partners. Power is needed to move resources this way. The leadership of such a process must be high. The queues to get help from SND must not be lost, and they must move at constant speed. I fully appreciate the need for predictability in SND's resources. The current conversions, including: bundling budget lines and with common loss funds for several years will help SND provide the most needed assistance. In any case, granting authorities must take responsibility for keeping the appropriations up with new tasks and expectations. Government schemes are needed for loans and aid where private individuals do not extend or are willing to take risks, and so will be the case in the future. The centre party believes that the Hyttnes-SND is significantly better than the barrel SND in many ways. However, I would like to allow myself a comment. When the media reproduced SND's arguments against the introduction of restrictions on ownership in the farming industry, I was despaired. I do not share in any way the idea that such a mild regulation would be detrimental to an industry that the Stortinge has intended to have large local ring-effects. I believe that the SND must have such political objectives and leadership at the bottom of its assessments and advice. The notification follows up the Storting's provision that regional governments are to be given a decision authorisation. The centre party is concerned about the reduction in representation and believes that it will be difficult to cover well enough the diversity of business life that exists. The Central Party proposes that the Boards be appointed by the county council to mark the central task of the county council as a coordinating and governing development operator. I am pleased with the agreement of the Committee that applicants who have been refused an application should be justified. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions made by the Central Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e276	Morten Lund has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e279	You can sometimes get a sense that this type of debate is becoming more political compulsions than knowledge-based argumentation. That's actually a good message. The evaluation carried out shows that SND is functioning satisfactorily in most areas; in some areas it is not doing so, and there is a good problem in the notification. There is a great deal of knowledge and study in the field of industrial development. It seems like we're dealing with it quite easily. We have statements from the former director when he went off, about what is, as he sees it, some of the problems – perhaps not the main problems, but some of the problems – among other things. predictability. That's something we have at least opportunities to do, and not use the annual budgets to create unnecessary unforeseeableness for SND's operations. In Norway, about a year is recorded. 10 000 new enterprises, and that share has been increasing beyond the 1990s. It will be deregistered approx. 8 000 companies, and that means we have a fairly good development. This is really pretty good, but what's the basic question, and what we have to look at, is whether the right businesses are going to be established. Is it arranged for us to establish the right businesses? We actually know a lot about that. We have a comprehensive research report on value-creating Norway, carried out by the BI. The report says a part about clusters of nutrients, and what assumptions should be in place for us to grow in nutrition. We have other reports. Several projects have been carried out in the Research Council's programme, in which they analyse small and medium-sized enterprises. One of them has been carried out by NTNU, Nordlandsforschung and Agderforskning, where it focuses on entrepreneurship and what to do with stimulation, and what we can do to stimulate entrepreneurship and innovation in enterprises. The project concludes on the basis of empirical findings with five main challenges. It's the main challenges for us, and it's the main challenges for SND, if we're going to facilitate that, among other things. SND can meet these challenges. First, we need to stimulate more people to start their own business. Personalised instruments must be provided. It also focuses on the need for the school to take responsibility for this. The education system must be used more deliberately in long-term recruitment for the start of self-employment. Secondly, start-up aid must be provided by start-up enterprises in the case of external capital. The greatest potential for us is to help start-ups get help in the start-up phase, and that's why we put in our proposal, no. 10, which has to do with grants and risk loans. We want to learn from the knowledge we get access to, so we take the consequences of it and put in this proposal. Thirdly, public proceedings must be shortened. Fourthly, we need to coordinate the labour market seat and the training seat. And fifthly, we need to get a better flow of information between public institutions, knowledge institutions and businesses, that's what we call business clusters. It is necessary to facilitate and stimulate the development of clusters. We also take the consequences of the kind of knowledge we get from these reports, and therefore submit a new proposal, No. 9th@item: inlistbox We want the SND to have a budgetary responsibility to develop its competence within this with business clusters. We also take the consequences of what is stated in the Communication, namely that SND needs to improve its skills development in small and medium-sized enterprises and that they need to develop their role as interlocutors for these enterprises. Finally, I refer to SV's three proposals – the proposals No. Eight, nine, and ten.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e307	Rolf Rikham has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e311	The news of SND that we are dealing with today came as a result of the design of a comprehensive industrial policy for the 21st century by the central government and the Minister of Enterprise Lars Sponheim, which was discussed here in the Stortinget in the spring of 1999. The central government decided here that SND would continue to be a central industrial finance organisation and an optimal coordinating body for the contacts of enterprises with the public sector, in particular at regional and local level. As part of the message work, the central government also launched broad external evaluations of SND’s activities. For the Left, it has always been central for SND to concentrate its activities on areas of private capital market failure and on areas where specific efforts are needed to ensure social considerations in the development of business. For the Left, the three main areas are small and medium-sized enterprises, innovation and district development. I am pleased that the new government has carried on this work and made a communication that broadly follows the principles that the central government laid down in 1999 and to which the Stortinge joined. I would like to remind you that there has already been a clear turn in SND's business in the direction that this message points out: small businesses and innovation across the country. SND is not only a good enough response to the colossal innovation needs of Norway over the next 20 years, nor should it be. If SND is to have a function of stimulating innovation, the other business policy must also move in the same direction — tax policy, follow-up of ‘Simplifying Norway’ for small enterprises, the challenge of the growing labour supply problem of industry, and, last but not least, an active research policy that is nutrient-oriented. My biggest challenge to the Minister of Industry must therefore be to ensure that SND is allowed to operate in a much more innovative political climate, where the whole of industrial policy is at the forefront. Only then will we get the full benefit of the valuable job SND does to help those who will create values in our country. In recent years, SND regional offices have been increasingly responsible for being the county's total gateway to the public sector. This looks at the Left as very important to reinforce further. In all areas, the objective must be to increase the impact of their own economic development on the counties and regions. The regional seed funds are particularly important in this context. The Seed Funds were heavily developed under the central government and further expanded through a new Fund for the Internal East. In the view of the Left, the Seed Funds should become an increasingly important instrument in innovation, by serving as meeting places for public and private capital and new business ideas. At a time when local boundaries have little or no significance for industrial development, it is important to be aware of the significant role the county council can and should play as a regional coordinator and driver of industrial policy. Otherwise, in Europe, we see how marked and strong cooperation in the regions is – this is something that also needs to be further stimulated in our country. There is an overall committee that emphasises the importance that young people and young people should already gain insight into the need for value creation and innovation in business. The focus on interaction and cooperation between local business and school needs to be increasingly focused. The left will stress the importance of the Government supporting and active in relation to the intentions of the curriculum formulation of closer cooperation between school and business as a lasting commitment. In this context, an appropriate lending scheme for youth enterprises should also be considered. Young people must be able to realise projects on the basis of their own ideas. The establishment of a youth SND should be a good measure in this context. Otherwise, I share the pleasure expressed by Mr Lilletun in relation to the Hervik Committee's conclusions on research, and the signals given by the Committee in that context. With regard to governance and organisation, it is a step in the right direction that state-owned governments are given decision-making powers in all matters that are decided regionally. In this respect, the Left considers it important that it is the county that appoints the members of the regional governments with political ties. Finally, the left is pleased that there will now be no conditional grant. We think that there is a bad driving force in it: if the companies are doing well, if the subsidy is to be paid back, and if it does not go well, the subsidy should be retained. In the end, I address the proposals that the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have promoted in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e337	The representative Leif Helge Kongshaug has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e340	We have a wide range of businesses in Norway with the main emphasis on SMEs. There are very many small and tiny businesses in this country. When designing an instrument which shall be suitable for all these operations, it shall state itself that it is necessary. But here we must close. It is a central objective that SND’s district office should be real gateways to business. Furthermore, these offices must be close to the enterprises. It is necessary that the activities can be easily identified and provided with guidance on any other actors that SND cooperates with and has knowledge of. The SND must be the hub itself. It is necessary to close down with increased efforts on skills, research and innovation in order to strengthen Norwegian business competitiveness in the future. The element of small enterprises is very large in the District of Norway. Common to them is that they individually have the power to promote active empowerment and networking. Here, SND has to play a central role. Norway is a small country. It is easy to forget, but the ability to interact with the different activities, whether they are located in the district or in more central areas, will become more and more important. It will be easier as broadband is replaced throughout the country. Distance becomes a driving factor in developing communication capabilities. There is little doubt that the entire business flora is not stable enough to support the SND framework. Several of us have to take inwards that we cannot drive and plan the nation-wide schemes whenever other good purposes are to be met. Following such a practice, this will frame all activities, including those in the district justice area. This is precisely because networking and competence development often find their pattern above what is local and county boundaries. In Norway, we must use all the talents we have. Against this background, it is clear that Norwegian enterprises have a large potential that they have not yet exploited in particular, namely women, at all levels of business. This will increase the width and absence and developmental capacity. The SND programme "Women in Focus" aims to make women more visible and to make use of their skills in business, and it addresses two groups of women in particular. There are highly qualified women who want to start their own business, and there are women who in the short and long term can enter into leadership positions in the business world. I am particularly pleased that the Minister of Industry has shown such an active attitude in this area, including: by creating women's networks, which can be involved and get the intention of increasing the number of women at the centre of Norwegian business to become a reality. The lighthouse project, where successful women's businesses are highlighted as lighthouses for other women's founders, is also very positive. In this context, I would like to mention that women who have taken part in this project now want to take responsibility by participating in the network of women founders in Russia. "Brigde two business" is a good example, which I'll get. I'll call this an additional result of the investments made by SND. The size is determined by strengthening the innovation climate in Norwegian companies. It's also me. I think both SND and the business community would be much more concerned about resource bases that could create such an innovation climate. In my opinion, a grip could be that Norwegian companies used artists and contemporary art. It's a few per cent. long-term education is more oriented towards innovation than just these. Besides, there is a trust in innovation if it is not physically facilitated that our daily environment gives us mental challenges, for example. through daily contact with innovative elements, such as contemporary art. I have noticed that the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Culture recently held a joint consultation on nutrition and culture. I think it's a step in the right direction. I would also like to mention that conscious use of design is another field with a great potential for the enterprises. Finally, some words on growth sector No. 1 in Norway – Norwegian fishing industry. SND has an independent responsibility to see what potential should develop. I am pleased with the bet program SND has for both shells and new species in breeding such as: cod. Furthermore, SND has been responsible for the Staten Fiskarbank since 1997. Here it is necessary to keep a watchful eye to ensure that the fishing capacity must be proportionate to the resource base and that the physical work of a fishing boat must be developed in such a way that it becomes attractive jobs for young people entering the industry who have requirements for comfort and safety at work other than those found in the older part of the current fleet. Furthermore, I am pleased that the coastal cargo fleet is now coming under SND’s tools. Here, the companies have the right to renew almost absent, which is clearly expressed by looking at the average age of this fleet, which is about 50 years old. It's too crazy for a traditional industry that's on the coast and that we use very well in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e368	In the SND main message, the Government draws up the long-term lines on which the industrial policy instrument in general and the SND in particular will work. I am pleased that the attitude of the Business Committee gives its support to this foundation. The current treatment of staging and cancellation will provide a basis for SND and the other instrument to develop both offensive and targeted strategies. The instruments of food and district policy must be designed and dimensioned in relation to the main challenges of the Norwegian economy. These challenges span a wide field. The scope of these challenges must be reflected by the instrument, while at the same time the institutions must have clear objectives that they can work effectively. In the government’s efforts to develop a more holistic industrial policy, further development of the instrument is central. I attach great importance to the fact that the various institutions cooperate well. In particular, there are two areas to focus on: co-ordinated activity and good accessibility. Customers must feel that institutions take responsibility for the whole and not just individual parts. Financial instruments and programmes must be tailored to different needs, but also to different phases of the project itself. The entire instrument offer must be accessible to customers in a simple and transparent manner, cf. also the 24-hour system currently established in the SND. Here it is the institutions that need to adapt to customers and those who demand services, not the other way around. In the case of SND, the Government wishes to set two main objectives for the work: SND shall work for increased innovation capacity and higher levels of competence among small and medium-sized enterprises. The Communication focuses on the important link between research and development, innovation, district development and internationalisation. It is therefore very positive that the Committee is following up on the emphasis that is now being placed on the entrepreneurial activity. We will show that there are many who establish themselves in Norway, much more than for example. in Sweden, even though they have entrepreneurship at school. We have a good funding mechanism, but there are different phases of the innovation situation, and the phase once it has started needs to have additional searchlights and attention. That is why it will be the total entrepreneurial activity that needs to be given an extra focus and put on the agenda. Furthermore, the SND shall also ensure that environmental considerations are taken into account in all projects and that the different needs of men and women are met. A majority of the Business Committee is in favour of introducing a system of tax incentives for enterprise-based research and development. The same majority also believe that it is appropriate to consider turning the so-called IFU scheme into a tax incentive scheme, in order to increase the purchase of R & D services by large enterprises in small enterprises. However, as we have mentioned in our draft revised budget, the government believes that a grant scheme best respects the objective of increasing R & D efforts in industry. At the same time, this helps to maintain a whole of our tax system. SND is an important development partner for SMEs and entrepreneurs. The need for skills and good networks is growing throughout the business world. It is therefore natural for SND to place increasing emphasis on this part of its business. I believe that the first SND proposals are actually embedded in the whole message as it is right now. As a development operator, SND shall be active among potential and relevant customers to find projects that provide forward-looking and profitable businesses. It is as a development actor that interactions with other instruments are particularly central. The Government wants the county councils to have significant responsibility for regional development. Municipalities must work at an overall level where national policies set regional objectives and strategies. SND is the operational actor responsible for implementing these strategies. SND will continue to offer competent risk capital as a core activity. We see that customers are becoming more and more different, the projects as well. It requires SND to play on a larger register in order to provide the necessary funding and also that they can offer almost a package solution with the different schemes in context, which was more difficult in the past. That's why we're now proposing to give SND greater flexibility to even put together different solutions, combined with strengthening their responsibility for their own economy. In financial terms, interactions with private financial institutions are very important. SND should not engage without private participation. A majority of the Business Committee is in favour of wind up the conditional grant scheme. I take note of that, and add up that it will be implemented from next year. SND shall further develop its role as a gateway to the corporate instruments. This gives district offices a more central role than they have at present. Offices must have their own competence in areas other than SND's own systems and must be able to refer customers to the system. But it's not just SND that is faced with great demands in this area. Institutions such as the Norwegian Research Council and the Norwegian Export Council will need to take a significant responsibility for making their instruments available in the region. Regional offices are both required to have sufficient competence in their fields and to be able to take decisions quickly and closely to the customer. And the cooperation agreements that we are now seeing develop between the SND and the Research Council and the SND and the Export Council are positive, and the good cooperation with SIVA is also positive. SND also has a cooperation agreement with the Norwegian Design Council. I am very pleased that the Design Council believes the cooperation agreement has now given significantly stronger and wider contact with the Norwegian business community. Design as a competitive factor has been underestimated in Norway, and here all good forces must contract. In its Communication on Regional Policy, the Government proposes to strengthen the responsibility of the regional level for its own development. This will be followed up in practice, and we will therefore provide SND regional governance with decision-making powers in all cases. The proposal aims to make regional governments collegiate where all members have equal rights and obligations. The Boards shall be composed on a broader basis than before, i.e. the overall competence of the boards of directors needs to reflect more closely the challenges of business. The composition will give the boards wider regional anchoring. The decision-making powers will further link the work of the SND to the regions concerned. In order to ensure compliance with responsibilities and powers, the Government proposes that the Governing Board of the SND appoint the regional governments. I am pleased that the Business Committee has joined the proposed changes to the SND regional management system. I have mentioned entrepreneurs as a special customer group that is becoming increasingly important in SND's work. Enterprise policy must be designed to make ideas into concrete projects, but also to keep them up to date. For these small sprouts, which actually happen in our country independently of large industrial companies, which distinguish us quite a lot from other countries, mean a lot to local and regional jobs. Entrepreneurship work goes beyond counselling and funding. In order for society to exploit the potential of value creation represented by entrepreneurs, changes are needed at many levels, not least in attitudes and culture. The government wants to strengthen its efforts in this area, and this must not least, as has been mentioned by several, also be a natural part of the school's activity. I'm glad the nutrition committee shares this view. All human resources should be used to increase the level of welfare in Norway. It is therefore important to have a larger proportion of women in business, both in management positions and as business owners. Here, the whole instrument must take responsibility. The instruments must be adapted to the needs of women and the competence in this area must be increased in the various institutions. The main message signals that supervision of SND’s activities should be strengthened. The Ministry will look at the issue now that the Industry Committee has agreed to this assessment. It will be natural to come back later to Stortinget. I believe that, through the notification and the suspension of the Business Committee, we are now providing a good basis for further development of the Norwegian instrument. The Communication contains a number of concrete proposals. I would like to end by mentioning short sea shipping and that the Economic and Social Committee has agreed that it should be considered as part of the SND’s scope of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e405	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e408	That's a point I'd like to pick up, and that's the point that's about stimulating research and the decision that the multiples hope to make today. I reported that when this is the case, when the arrangement that conditional bonuses can be converted into loans, the Council of State took note of it. It's okay, and it's done right in committee for why a different system. When it concerns the majority's view of stimulating research in the business world, the Council of State did not say anything about her taking note of it. I think it is important to clarify that this is a point that the Government will follow up – as hopefully a majority of people decide today – and that the Government will decide that it can be introduced from 2002, as it says in the proposal. With the ambitious objectives set, this proposal will probably trigger a billion-dollar research. The argument that has been refuted by the Ministry of Finance is that it will be an unbridled tax system. But it can be used in any context. And I want to say it so strongly that in this case it must be better for a few to get to a development project that is not a good research project, even if it is to be quality assured by the Research Council, than that we do not implement the scheme and get this count. My one question to the Council of State is therefore: How does it intend to follow up on what the vote says, and the proposal which will hopefully be accepted?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e419	Of course, I will follow up on the decision of the Storting also in terms of research and development. What I cannot specify is whether this is a system that can be implemented from 1 January, because, as is well known, also for the representative Lilletun, was among other things. The Tax Directorate is very sceptical about the scheme and how it should be phased in in case. The same scepticism was also expressed by the Statistical Central Bureau. When we agreed to a scheme that was a more regular grant scheme, it was based on a belief that, as we have perceived, it would probably stimulate more to the new research, i.e. to move on from the individual enterprise, than only a tax scheme would do when it would be desirable to deduct from a research already established in the enterprise. But now I understand from what is available from the Business Committee that one believes one should have two types of arrangements, so that one should also be encouraged to the innovative part of the enterprises. And the system that we have promoted is now being consulted and will be put into effect on 1 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e426	Norway has a long history of economic activity. The last Aetat report showed that unemployment, i.e. the total number of unemployed, was significantly below 3 p.m., and we are probably at the top of Europe. Private banks and financial institutions are willing to take a relatively high risk if there are good projects. But the economists are worried, they talk all the time about overheating the economy, risk of inflation and other negative effects on business. In this situation, billions of dollars are circulating within the SND system to SND companies, and new billions are coming. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether she has made some assessments of how these billions of capital injections through the SND system can work negatively by stimulating increased inflation, so that the competitiveness of Norwegian SND companies is reduced, so that negative ring-effects can be achieved, and that next time new funds and support schemes in the SND, etc. are added.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e433	The most important thing is that we can conduct a balanced economic policy, which of course is neither inflationary nor drive prices in the weather, and I have no reason to say that SND is a particularly inflationary one. On the contrary, what I have suggested, both through the evaluation and the treatment that has been in the Committee, is that in many local environments where there are good ideas and a basis for activities, SND plays a very important role for the workplace and for the activity and, in fact, also for the settlement. I take note that there is a large majority who support this view in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e438	Some of the media focussing around this evaluation and the message has been the many goals and strategies that SND has, and the count to 180 can give a picture of an organisation that needs to be completely confused. I don't think it's like that in any way, and it's a little unfortunate that someone gets such a focus. When the Business Committee visited the SND, we were told a little about the relatively many new programs that were introduced and that took a lot of the capacity of the entire organization, so they have to go beyond to individual customers through the county. Then it adds up to new strategies through this message. The county shall be the central developer. It shall initiate the development of local programmes, and funds shall be provided in one way or another, so that, when the programmes are established in cooperation between businesses, banks, research parks and municipalities, they can be put to work. I would like to think that something needs to be reduced in order to make room for the local priorities. There simply has to be fewer centrally initiated programmes. Does the Council acknowledge the need to reduce the scope of these centrally initiated programmes in order to achieve this? And can the individual state, if it starts working on three local development programmes, be sure that at the time they're finished and the applications come in, there are also funds there, so that they can say yes to those who should get yes?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e448	Most likely today, the Storting will join a new relatively large and central programme, namely to phase into the scope of SND for the whole of short sea shipping because we actually think it is important. Similarly, in the past, Stortinget has agreed that it has been very important to launch central programmes, for example: for e-commerce, to ensure the smallest enterprises. The FORNY programme has also been joined in the past. At the same time, it is also a reality that the arrangements and framework conditions for SND with regard to the central programmes, to which this house has agreed and which have been very crucial and important, have been reduced mid-year. It's a very unfavourable situation for an institution, and it's not just what Morten Lund said, namely the local and regional programmes. This also applies to the entire institution's self-confidence to work out the tasks. And it's an ambitious program that's being added up to here, both central and regional, because we think SND is very crucial for the settlement. In fact, they are inside so many of our companies when they establish themselves, that creating a contrast between central and regional programmes – which the Committee has not done in its position – I do not think is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e455	I also record that the majority of the Committee is in favour of using the tax system to stimulate investment in R & D. I think the best way to do that is the one that the Hervik Committee minority voted for, that is, using grant schemes. There is a significantly better and more accurate response if we want to stimulate this. Then to the Council of State. When the former director stopped, he was concerned that there had been too much unforeseeability. SND has not had the freedom to work properly. And he had a pretty strong attack on both politicians and the department and bureaucrats. Does the Council of State agree with any of that criticism, that there has been too much unforeseeability, that, as politicians, through the annual budgets, we have intervened and regulated activities almost from day to day, at least from year to year, and that this has contributed to making it more difficult for SND than it should be, or does the Council of State think that this criticism is far beyond the objective? So to our proposal No. 10, which has to do with grants and risk loans. We know that SND has had good projects – one can always discuss what are good projects – projects that they consider to be good, but that they have not had the opportunity to grant because the framework has been too small to take much risk. Do the Council of State agree that there is a need and that it is desirable to extend these loan and grant frameworks to current levels? Can we expect the Council of State to follow up on the state budget for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e466	I take that criticism very seriously from the chairman of the board, because it is clear that it is doing something about an institution when one has to work with such unpredictable framework conditions. It does something to the entire organization, where we have now put in so much force that it should be very strong out there in the counties. As a result, it is also becoming a crumbling force for the empowerment of the counties, as it has been working with the Research Council, which will be channelled through the SND, and co-operation with the Export Council, as so many of our companies are both local and international. And this unpredictability cannot live with such a heavy institution for a long time. As politicians, we're going to have to take inwards. At the same time, there is, in part, a frantic majority in favour of SND being the heavy player. Then it becomes a big task both for the government and for us politicians who support the SND, to work for the positive and for the whole time to get the positive that SND does. So that's this balance we have to make. We must ensure the predictable framework conditions, and at the same time we must all talk positively about working for SND and the brand construction needed in that context. And then to the state budget. When we come to the heavy decisions and have to give priority to business policy, I have two priorities: it's research, and it's SND.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e475	The cargo fleet along the Norwegian coast, I have heard, has an average age of approx. Forty years, and there's a huge need for renewal. In fact, the situation as it is today with regard to the age and quality of this fleet is not worthy of the ship’s nation of Norway. Yesterday we discussed concessions in aquaculture, and most speakers had high expectations of the potential in aquaculture, under given conditions. There were mentioned restrictions on feed, but another thing that I see going to be a big challenge, is the transport out of the country of all these products, and where one now expects an increase. It is clear that all this cannot be transported by road, so that the sea must become the future transport year for these products, not only because of the expected increase in quantity but also because of environmental considerations. I'm glad that the Council of State has previously shown commitment in terms of shipping and the problem of our shipping fleet along the coast. What would be desirable for me is to challenge the Council of States on how she will meet the challenges that appear to be coming in terms of increasing transport needs. It is obvious that more needs to be done on the boat. And does the Council of State have a strategy to increase the rate of renewal of the Norwegian freight fleet, especially now that the SND instruments can be used? I'm afraid that the funds at first might be too small for us to be able to take a real boost here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e484	I am pleased that the Business Committee has so strongly supported what we are in favour of in the case of short sea shipping. I have set up my own group, which, among other things: the representatives of the cargo vessels and also the SND are involved in order to review this and see how a scheme should be designed. We also look at the fishing fleet, where we had a system of mastering fishing vessels, so that we could use it as a base for a new business. That's one of the areas we're looking at. If we consider short sea shipping to be a continental industry alone, we must also discuss: what about reimbursement schemes or other schemes? Should they be deleted? If you say it's going to be a purely continental arrangement, it follows some routines of it. But we're going into all of this now and we're going to evaluate it together with the industry itself and with the SND. At the same time, people from the Port Service have also strongly signaled, as the EU is now producing a White Paper on transferring much more of the transport to the sea, that they do not have enough terminals, that they have not worked well enough to channel this cooperation between rail, road and sea. There is also work here in the Ministry of Fisheries to which we are also linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e489	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e492	What we are dealing with today is an important regional policy issue and an important industrial policy issue. Before I got to Stortinget, I worked a little bit in the first line at the municipal level, and I'm very concerned that SND here is going to be more and more obvious. I believe that the SND as it is today has an improvement potential. Especially for women, it seems negative that SND is not present in the first line. I will also, as our chief spokesman in this matter, Jon Lilletun, give praise to the Government for the message that has been submitted. I also think we have come up with a lot of good solutions in the committee. I would like to comment in particular on low-risk loans. I think the majority comments in this regard are very important. It is important that the long-term primary biological industries receive funding schemes similar to those of the Agricultural Bank and the Fiskarbank. This scheme is also very important for travel life, which in very many cases in the districts has a low return, and which is now facing considerable challenges. I have heard about the experience of many of those who have small travel businesses, and how happy and happy they have been to have SND as a partner when they have financial problems, that they have a government partner who can help them in difficult periods of time to other creditors. Another system that I am very happy to see that we are now getting ahead is network credit for women. It is a system I hope can become more visible and clear as the SND tool. It's an opportunity to get small loans, and it's a great way to introduce small businesses and creative ideas for SND's tools. There are actually many women today who don't even have enough equity to raise small loans in private banks. It's also the reality in 2001. I am also pleased with the joint comment on entrepreneurial activities, in which we go in to get more sustainable arrangements in terms of entrepreneurship in school. It would also be nice if we could get to the youth SND. This is also an important area for SND in the long run, because it's a way to introduce SND to tomorrow's managers. I will then promote the proposal of the Christian People's Party which has been distributed today: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider a plan for further decentralisation of SND’s head office in which it assesses the relocation of purely administrative tasks and also professional sections to individual counties that may act as the SND’s professional hub.’ I think it is a bit strange that SND actually pays the entire organization from Oslo. I think the SND should look into whether this can't be decentralised. In order to bet on building up departments in the SND, the idea behind should be to assess whether these can be extended to regional offices, in order to become the organisation's nodes in a way. For example, when the Prime Minister travels to Finnmark and says that new farming species are being invested in Finnmark, a logical follow-up is to assess whether the SND department for new farming species can be built up at the SND office in Finland, for example. Finnmark. What I'm looking for is such a way of thinking, a plan for such a way of thinking, where SND also exploits the church tower theory for its activities, and is a strategic and flexible organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e514	The representative Karlstrøm has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e517	For one who has been a user of SND services since the reorganisation in 1993, but also who uses DU before that time, it is good to see that the changes made in those years have led to a better tool and a better SND. From the districts it was predicted that this collection of cancers in 1993 would not be successful. Today, few people want to return to the previous organization. Many users experience SND and SND district offices as fast and service providers. This one has to build on. It also requires SND to have long-term requirements on the part of the granting authorities. There are many examples that state capital and private capital in cooperatives have been necessary to bring about a new and good development of industries and jobs in different parts of the country. Here, SND has also played a role as a knowledge intermediary and as a quality assurance provider. In particular, this applies to municipalities and regions with a one-sided nutrient base, which have lost many jobs in a very short time because a corner stone company has ceased operations. These conversion municipalities and regions have benefited from contact with SND. SND has played a consultative role and acted as a conduit for solutions between local developers and central agencies. Local nutritionists have been pleased with the efforts of SND. Through their local involvement, SND has made great efforts to develop a local understanding of nutrient development and has thus contributed to improving local nutrient culture. One here should remember that large corner stone companies are a good thing when they're in operation, but they've rarely developed a culture for new business development outside the company, precisely because so many have had their safe work in the company. Knowing the positive effects of the work on conversion involving SND and the need for such an involvement, it is strange that the Progress Party will wind up the SND and that the Right writes in a note that no support for conversion should initially be given. Such views find little justification in the experience gained. I would like to refer here to the research that Nordic research has carried out on these issues, and in particular to report No. 5/1997, «Evaluation of work on conversion in municipalities/regions with a one-sided activity basis», report No. 8/1998, «Transfer policy in response to practice – questions about anchoring» and the doctoral thesis to Asbjørn Karlsen, «A statement on institutional perspectives on business transition». A main conclusion here is that a government involvement is necessary through the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the SND. It is precisely in the case of such an exposure that private capital has been triggered. The aim is not to subsidise and own enterprises in public, but to provide knowledge, competence and help to create economical healthy businesses in the longer term. This means that conversion of enterprises is necessary, often with the help of SND. In this interaction it is that local ideas and forces can also exit and be realized. For the seventh and last time, business developers and local involvement are crucial for new activities and whether they will be profitable and sustainable. So it's okay that the Right Party and the Advance Party have the principal positions I pointed out, but it's easy to see that these positions are not in favour of conversion companies and conversion areas. There are many cases where one has to be more practical and actionary than just principle. For communities with large and sudden job losses, it is a good economy to make an extra effort. This means that many families do not have to move, but can keep their homes and homes and get a new job in the place where they are established. For society, this is a good economy. It was probably such a fundamental attitude that also led the Right Party and the Advance Party here in Stortinget to a project that has subsequently proved to be a success, both economically, environmentally and in the number of jobs. So it's a good thing to become more Catholic than the pope on such questions, if you don't look at the practical possibilities that can lie there by supporting conversion in companies and municipalities, including SND.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e538	After working as a private entrepreneur since 1970, and having been involved in political work locally and regionally for most of this time, my experience is that having an available tool is very important. The first line service, the local food funds, has an important role to play here. In many buildings, this key is inserted into the other doors, such as SND. The Bondevik administration was very busy designing the tool tool, so that it would become a door to this device. This work must continue, so that the criticism will not happen to the public tool in the future. During the process of the fisheries notification during this ageing period, a majority of the trade committee asked the Ministry of Finance to deal with a fund arrangement for the classification and renewal of the fishing fleet. A question to the Council of State will then be: Where is this matter now? When a new review of the instrument that provides less tax expense, including on land, or disposal funds, is to be looked at with new eyes, such instruments should be given a district profile. This would be a clear signal from the big community that we mean something about investing in important district industries, such as farming – a matter that we dealt with yesterday. That the case spokesperson warns against such means of action, I am somewhat surprised. The Christian People's Party believes in the private initiative and will also be open in the future to create schemes that inspire individuals to first invest money and forces and then in the next round make use of the offerings that include: SND has -- the big community that's set up. When it relates to the role of SND in the agricultural context, there is today reason to question it. The industry has a consumption of capital of around NOK 3 billion per year. years – renewal and maintenance are far, far below this. Sun reason says this cannot continue. The majority in Stortinget has set out the course in agriculture. Agriculture shall provide safe, good food for the population. Production shall be done in a small scale manner. In addition, this industry shall focus on the green and good condition of Norway, so that a growing travel life will continue to have a product for which an international public is willing to benefit and pay. It is therefore important that SND also keep an eye on what is happening in Norwegian agriculture now — for the degradation that is taking place — and is willing to go far when it comes to renewing houses and appliances.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e560	Since the Coastal Party is not represented in the nutrition committee and therefore cannot go into or out of the comments of the Committee's variable majority, we need through the debate to express our support for the various areas. We would like to join in all the comments that the Committee has put together, including the comments that the Committee, minus the Progress Party, is making. Otherwise, we'll signal a little bit of alternating support. I would particularly like to refer to the introductory remarks of the Centre, which will receive support from the Coastal Party. These comments conclude from a decision that we will support. We want to underline the special responsibility of SND for entering risk capital into areas that have a spin-off nutritional basis. The coastal party agrees that good conditions and opportunities for development must be ensured for both traditional and innovative businesses. The Coastal Party believes that any good idea should have a chance, and that it is therefore desirable to use some public funds on projects where the private lending market is not willing to bear the risk of setting up new businesses alone. However, we believe that there is a good guarantee that public and private loan capital shares the responsibility. It provides a certain degree of certainty that there is a realistic ex-ante assessment of the financing of the potential of the project. Although the Coastal Party supports the centre of view of the need for bet in the districts, we do not see that this conflicts with the priorities that Right Ansgar Gabrielsen drew up in his post, to which we can join. Here it is more about a boat – and than either – or, and both – and there must be room for a case concerning the use of the SND funds. The Coastal Party also agrees with the Right, the Progress Party and the representative Terje Knudsen that SND’s capital should not be used as competitive capital in relation to the private lending market. We will therefore support the proposal to wind up SND Invest, with the same justification given in the comments of these parties. We believe that SND should be a complementary rather than a competing funding body. However, to secure the seed funds – and some of the intention to liquidate SND Invest, is to strengthen the seed funds – it must not in any way be allowed to reduce access to capital. The Seed Funds must be strengthened, and should be able to do so, we must have a completely different tax regime for business than that managed by the Workers' Party, because with the taxes and charges they make in relation to private investment, we do not have access to private capital! And we can't have a development in this country where the state uses tax tools to force itself to completely control business. We must ensure private business through a sensible tax regime, so that comes together with the need for loan capital. This is so important that it just has to be underlined. The Coastal Party will also join the Joint Commentary on Women in Business. The coastal lot will refer to the outcome of assessments carried out by enterprises that women have established, including: through the grant of an establishment. It shows that the degree of success in establishing businesses that are viable over time is very high where women have responsibilities for their establishment. The Coastal Party will also point out that these are enterprises that are largely established in areas where the labour market for women has mainly been in the public sector and that the greater degree of women's establishment in private business is positive. Nor is there any reason to hide that men’s networks are more beneficial than women in the private lending market. It is enough to refer to the overwhelming human dominance of corporate governance, where the same men take place in the different governments, and it then develops networks that form part of the board of directors also for banking and insurance, which is therefore the main source of private debt financing. That not a man-dominated party like the Progress Party sees this as a problem, is in itself not spectacular, but it is worth noting. SND also needs to provide capital for conversion and investment in primary industries that are experiencing problems due to policy priorities that change the performance assumptions of these industries. Such policy priorities have a major impact on the situation both in agriculture and in the fishing industry. – Now I see that my time is running out. Then I can only refer to what the previous speaker said about the need for investment in agriculture, and say that the Coastal Party fully shares these views and joins them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e587	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e590	In the SND setting, forestry interests are set again outside the SND governance. This is reflected in the range of issues in which forestry is receiving voice-based treatment in relation to other primary industries. The fact that the vital importance of forestry for the Norwegian economy and districts is to be taken into account by Norway’s Bondelag, Norsk Bonde- og Småbrugerlag and Norway’s Fiskarlag is neither correct nor decent. I do not feel confident that the vital importance of the forest will be at the top of the list when the Fiskarlag sets the agenda. But all in all, I'm safer at the Fiskarlage than at the Norwegian Bond team. The fishing team represents a free, independent and proud primary industry. The interests of forestry shall be safeguarded by an organisation which contributes more than anyone else to the «Feasants in cages». This is not a formulation from the Right's important inquiry into agriculture under the title 'Get rid of the farmer'. ‘The peasants in cages’ is a title of the Nation on 7 June and refers to an opinion by the head of the Norwegian Forest Society, Lars Wilhelm Grøholt. ‘Today, the farmers are trapped in cages in the permanent agriculture’ says Groeholt. And he adds, ‘Meaning and the indifferent in agriculture will take over more and more’. From the Right, we make a natural demand that the Norwegian Forest Association be represented in the SND controllers in the forest counties. Unfortunately, we are only supported by the Progress Party and the representative Knudsen. The so-called central parties will have members with county political ties in the regimes. You're welcome! In the state of the state of the state of the state of the kingdom, which was treated yesterday, the harassment of forestry continued in what must be described as a rematch in relation to the failed Minister of Agriculture Gjønne's link to environmental certification. Freedom and free nutrition are not tolerated. Unfortunately, for another three months, the aim of including forestry in the prisons for mediocrity is, unfortunately, a majority in Stortinget, of course, lovingly supported by the World Nature Fund and the Norwegian Nature Conservation Association. Enough, says Right. This applies to taxes and taxes, but certainly also to regulations, concessions, coercion and policy-making. It is a shame that forestry should have to be represented by an organisation such as the Norwegian Bond Team, which more than anyone else stands for the mediocrity and indifference to which Groeholt so correctly refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e601	With effect from 1 April, the Public Procurement Act of the State Enterprise and District Development Fund, SND, shall apply. This implies that all participation and financing decisions are made available to the public. This is the result of the proceedings of the Judicial Committee and the treatment of the Storting against the wider public about the use of taxpayers’ funds. Today, when SND has exceeded 55,000 customer relationships — of which 40,000 are linked to agriculture — and has outstanding loans of 14.4 billion kroner, of which 4.2 billion are linked to agriculture, it goes without saying how important it is with publicity around this. In addition, the fund has 17 district offices and a total of 500 employees. As a former county politician in the district of Eastfold, I received in due course secret documents listing the funds allocated to areas such as the production of dried flowers and the cultivation of parrots – to name something. This pales in relation to SND’s use of money each year to establish jobs in, for example, Eastern Europe ‘for Norwegian enterprises’, as it is called. However, as a result of SND’s investments abroad, Norwegian jobs are actually lost, especially in District Norway. However, the fund also creates jobs, only the fact that it is sadly small in relation to the use of tax money, the risk and gambling that are included in the tax money from business, which has to cope with the tax jungle in the country. In addition, there is some frustration about how the state exercises ownership. Central people believe that the SND system is losing its credibility because it is not satisfied with the politicians talking about efforts and research, innovation, development and establishment. Then the problems that most often arise arise when public – politicians and bureaucrats – later appear to be business leaders or business people and operate retail regulation without fixed and long-term strategies and use the money of others without having to feel the same risk and direct responsibility for the use of funds. The political majority chooses to continue the SND scheme with public support. The same majority propose reforms aimed at strengthening the county. It is regrettable that in this way it is trying to give the unnecessary third level of administration new tasks to continue the county as a unit. I guess it's a bad thing about SND, which is getting too attached to the county council and the political environment there. If a forward-looking innovation policy is to be pursued, a completely different approach is required to provide more viable jobs. It should not be the case in a well-developed industrialised country that one must rely on public favor when transferring public loans. There are other framework conditions that need to be improved for entrepreneurs and businesses, without the involvement of bureaucrats and politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e618	The right has previously explained its primary views on this message, and I am not going to spend any particular time getting into it. I just note in the debate that those who were the greatest sceptics of today's organization of SND are now the ones who appear to be the most satisfied followers of today's organization. Well, I guess we're just taking note of that, but I think what might be more worrying in this debate is seeing the way and the marshalls that the population gives to SND. I think the outgoing chairman illustrated this quite well when he concluded that SND would be met with a wall of goodwill. And I'm certainly not sure that today's new 100 pages, which roll over with even more goodwill towards the SND, the administration and the system as such, give some more clear answers to the choice of the road and what kind of mars Grounds SND is going to walk on its path. Here, there's the sauce in a bunch of cross-cutting considerations, which, in the end, cannot be reconciled, and this combined with the fact that the economic framework of the SND is shrinking, makes it clear that the possibility of solving the challenges naturally cannot be proportionate to the expectations. I have a lot more faith in the Right Model, preferably combined with a closer and more committed organisation around the synergy that we could have obtained from an SND organisation that gets good quality, combined with closer and closer cooperation with, for example, the Research Council and the Export Council. In my opinion, today's debate has not attracted SND's organization any further in the future. SND had deserved clearer marshalling soils from the bulk population and clearer guidelines. But it's not a lack of goodwill. It can be found on over 100 new, densely written pages.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e625	As a brief summary of today's debate, I would like to say that it seems that most of the parties in Stortinget still have high ambitions on behalf of SND, and then we are hoping that this will also be reflected in the autumn budget debate. Otherwise, I just want to signal that for the Workers' Party we will vote against the proposals in the vote. Then there are four new proposals on the table today. With regard to proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from SV, we think they're really unnecessary, because the whole message has the hallmark of what's in the form of proposals here. But we do not want to vote against anything that we are in favour of, so we will vote in favour of the two proposals. Proposals Nos. 10, from SV, and No 11, from Randi Karlstrøm on behalf of the Christian People's Party, who came very late today, we will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e632	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[See page 3525]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e646	This setting has not been out of control for 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal, which is deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. One independent representative shall be given 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e659	The Norwegian capital market is not perfect. Not everyone needs capital for good projects, finding the capital they need. Different activities may have different needs. Some have only one idea and need capital to further develop the idea. At this stage, we have the seed funds. Some people have an idea that's pretty developed, they might have a prototype and they're in the process of producing, but they need capital to further develop the business in terms of profit. Not least, many enterprises will need additional capital and competence if they are to try out markets beyond their borders. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left agreed in the budget configuration of the Business Committee that there is a need for risk capital in the innovative business sector in addition to the seed funds and other public tools currently available. The same party – with the exception of the Left – asked the Government to put forward a separate case on how the State can help to strengthen access to such risk capital, and allowed $2450 million. NOK to this. One asked the Government in that context, among other things. to do good for the purposes and organisation of one or more investment companies. The majority asked for the fund/funds to focus mainly on the research-based, innovative business within the four main fields of research. The ministry has followed this up in a good way. The establishment of such a fund in the department is also a major concern in the hearing, in the hearing and in the requests to the committee. A majority of the Committee now decides that the purpose of an investment company is to improve access to risk capital and equity for the innovative research-based industry. Lack of access to risk capital is currently a brake pad for increased value creation and development of business. The company should be a long-term investor to help strengthen the Norwegian environment of competence and the contact between them. We focus on the following objectives: strengthening Norwegian business competitiveness and future value creation to trigger new business opportunities and business clusters where Norway is already strongly mobilised to mobilise private capital to invest in innovative and research-based business to build valuable networks between owners, managers, R & D environment and enterprises In line with the Government's proposal, a state-owned investment company shall be set up. This investment company shall invest in different funds within different industries. In each of these funds, private investors shall have a majority. The country shall never have more than 49 pst. property. By having a state-owned company that invests with the private in different funds, private individuals can choose which industries they want to invest in. They can also take on a role as active owners of a fund more than they could if they had direct ownership of a pool of investment companies with nearly 2 450 million. kr in state capital. The majority is saying that a size of 300 million. kr or more in each fund may be appropriate, but we also allow the board to enter into smaller funds at special circumstances. We have agreed that SND and SIVA should own the company in equal proportions, but that the Minister of Industry should be the one who is constitutionally responsible to the Stortinget. In line with the plurality of the budget, we have pointed to the selected areas of research as areas where it would be natural to establish funds. However, access to private capital and private investors' preferences in the field of industry will be decisive for where the investment ends. We attach great importance to the company being a long-term owner and a professional owner. It is not appropriate to impose political leadership on the company for the investments. I would also like to add: the board of directors to be appointed in the state company is a professional board appointed according to competence and professionalism. One of the purposes that have been associated with an investment company is the establishment of a so-called PE fund. Such a fund would be more likely to invest in more mature enterprises that need capital, for example. for restructuring or for international investment. Within the bounds that are set at 2,450 million. kr, we have not found room to set up a PE fund, but we think it is important to assess the equity situation in the Norwegian market, among others. with a view to securing equity in the Norwegian market for strategically important Norwegian companies. We therefore ask that the Department return to Stortinget with a proposal for guidelines and an expanded framework for a possible PE fund. The reasons for this are well described both in the previous setting from the Committee on these matters and in the message from the Department. Some of the others have pointed to as an advantage with the co-owner state, having a better connection to research networks. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to facilitate greater contact between business and research. For this reason, we are pleased that a majority has asked to assess the role of the Norwegian Research Council in innovation work and whether it may be natural that research is represented on the board of state investment companies when it is to be chosen. In the media today, there are some suggestions that have to be based on crazy statements. It says that there will be a company that will have special leadership. My post has to make it clear that it's not true when it's about geography, it's said, and when it's about where to invest, etc. It is also said that it should be a mixed company of SND and SIVA. I'll briefly clarify what kind of misunderstanding this is. It's just that to get a step from the department of the government, we have chosen those who are professional in innovation, who are equipped with an instrument, and who know these environments in the whole country, i.e., SIVA and SND. They shall select the professional board. There shall be no mixing of roles, etc. It should be quite clear that this is a new state-owned company. But it has to be an advantage for everyone that one sees things in context, and that these companies that are established can have knowledge about and have at their disposal when investing in new businesses, an instrument tool, like other companies have. It is striking, therefore, that it is those who have been least interested in the establishment of such a company and arrangement, which in its comments creates misunderstandings that there is no reason to draw from the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e707	When I picked up two of today's newspapers, I wondered if it was 1 April we experienced today. It's not that, but some people are trying to make the mess so one would think it was a April joke. In reality, this is a big day for the Government and the Workers' Party, that an investment company is finally put in place that will allow the wealth of capital that the state has in place to be and develop Norwegian business. There's not a new thought. It is so old that the first time one tried to implement it, was in 1981, by the government of Harlem Brundtland and the daring Minister of Industry Finn Kristensen. So there is every reason to congratulate the government of Stoltenberg and the Council of State Knudsen for having now got this company on the rails. But I will, when I first distribute flowers, also be allowed to give a flower to the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Without their support for the budget management of these 2.45 billion, we had not had this matter here today, and did not have this debate here today. I find it, to put it straight out, reasonably neat that those who are involved in creating the basis for this fund to see the light of day, are also able to be involved in and influence the further process. The most important thing in the setting we are discussing today is that we get this company in place. Secondly, through the plurality that is established, we have received a clear signal that Stortinget's plurality wants a refill for this company, and we want the question of a PE fund to be settled and resubmitted to Stortinget. It's only then, when this is in place, that we have an active force towards the entire Norwegian business community, even those who are mature companies, who are in the process of conversion or structural change, which is becoming increasingly topical, as we see every day. Then it is some who have tried – and of course it is those who oppose the whole company – to present it as if the way in which one organizes ownership is unfortunate. In the Labour Party, we didn't need that change. It's completely open. But that one is closest to ruining the whole idea – I have no faith in that will happen. The change is enough so that the distance between Stortinget and this company will be longer. If there's something all of the hearing aids we've had that we've highlighted, it's just that. All of us who have had some years here in this room, know that there is a reasonable willingness to go in and control in detail the kind of tool like this. That's how I think one has come a little bit on the way when one has got the distance that one here has, that it's more difficult for the Stortinget to come up with clear directives. But it is not such that the Minister of Industry does not have the right of governance and the constitutional responsibility for this company. We've explicitly said that's what's going to happen. I would also like to be so strongly informed that the Ministry of Industry and Trade will draw up the guidelines or statutes that will apply to this company. Furthermore, as the Advocate-General has said, it should be an independent and professionally anchored board for this company. There shall be no role mix between the company and SND and SIVA. There are some who have actually come up with the idea that these should be co-located. There is no location in the configuration. There is no one who has thought that thought, other than those who are contrary to the whole system. So I would also like to clarify that the administration of this company does not need to be particularly large. It's the underlying funds or the companies that design the idea for their fund. They are the ones who have to look for private capital. And is it so that there are private individuals who go into capital with the business idea that is there, there should be enough quality assurance for those who are going to sit down and decide whether to go in with their party to this company. The Labour Party has been driving us to use the state's wealth of capital to help Norwegian industry. 20 years, as I said, it's going to get through. The right has been opposed, and is opposed, even though they have said that they could subsidiaryly support the proposal that came from the Government. It's quite okay, and they did it quite clearly pretty early in the phase, so there's no doubt that that's the case. But I am not sure if it was to secure this company. I think that there was an attempt to get the attention off the matter, and what this might have to say for Norwegian businesses. I'm glad it's per. Today there is a great deal of confusion that one must be able to use the state's capital wealth against the Norwegian business community. It hasn't always been like that. Now it's actually so that both business and many economists are just taking this on board. And if that's how the Right, the Advance Party and the Left really think that we're going to have this fund, it's a co-conspirator's big thing that thinks we're going to use the state's wealth in this way, and I have to say that's a fantastic development in the later days. And then we're going to have to work together to make this as successful as we all think it's going to be. And if any of these skeptics get right, it's not like this is created forever. We know that it's always going to change things and adapt it to the remoteness, if the remoteness is different from what we think it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e733	As has been said by the representative Opseth, the Right was opposed to allocating almost DKK 2.5 billion to this fund in the budget for this year. That's absolutely right. We strongly argued for this and entered it in connection with the State budget. It's also true, as Opseth says, that the Workers' Party has been a driver for 20 years to get this done. He mentioned Finn Kristensen, who was well then Minister of Industry, and who has been a proponent while he was a politician, and a backer after he left as a politician. The right has had the alternative, has had the opposite starting point of what has been the Labour Party's policy in the last 20 years. And just to illustrate this with this year's government budget: it's actually kind of comical that today the amount that the state is going to run into this fund is identical to the amount that the state gets into extra tax just by reducing the depreciation rates for the same business that they're so dedicated to giving blood. This has been the Labour Party's policy for 20 consecutive years – all-round Norwegian business life, so that rescuers, whether called Opseth, Knudsen or Kristensen, can stand and waft with government money to be used for equity in the same companies. And now we are in the situation that we are the country in Europe where the state has the largest share of all. It has not been the Right Policy. It must be assumed that it will be very long and there will have to be very bad times for it to happen. Then, however, in the state budget for this year, this has – I'm sorry to say – been adopted for some rather strange reason. And I think it must have rushed on the Minister of Industry that it was adopted, because this is one of the most unfinished things that has almost been born on this earth. In connection with the state budget, there were very little leads, so you need to get a message about this, and then you keep it in a year before you figure out what you want. So in the meantime, a message has been made, and a way to organise it. When Opseth is curious that Right can provide his subsidiary support for this, I would say that Opseth has been in this house for so long and pressed so many times on the button subsidiaryly that he should know that out of two subjects you choose the least. He has a long, safe and good experience in that. When the right in the position points out the obvious, the danger of confusion, I have to say, when I read newspaper articles from people who are currently sitting in the diplomatic booth, that we are not all alone about it. There's a relatively complex audience on my right as to what we should do. There are not many in the box that recommend Opseth's solution, and I understand that very well. When Opseth in his post expressed his great joy – it was when he was at his most heartbroken – and congratulated Knudsen, I noticed that she did not even look up. I also understand that very well, because to me it is completely incomprehensible that not the scheme that existed was interesting for the Workers' Party to be adopted. I will not speculate from this pulpit in what may be the motives for it. However, I registered that Opseth said that it is going further from Stortinget to this fund now with the way to organize, but there are getting closer to other things. And today, listening to Opseth stand and salute the Center Party, it's actually the first time I've heard Opseth has done from this pulpit. I also find it strange that the signals contained in this message, which have been unambiguous advice given at hearings that have been held, have not been followed at all. We see that even the Norwegian Venture Capital Association today writes a letter to the Presidentship of Storting, where they strongly advise against what is the majority position, because it would not be possible to raise that capital. Such a contact model that it's added up to here, it's amazing that you had to experience it. I don't think we should have to wait a long time before we see examples and accusations coming about interrelationships between SND/SIVA and this fund and these companies that are going in, about who's getting support from there, and who's not getting it. There was some of the essential reasons in this communication from the Council of State Grete Knudsen, which is what goes on in contact. It would surprise me, and – I was about to say – the Council of State would make a mistake if she did not ask Jon Lilletun as the case-law rapporteur today to explain some of the things that are not, but that you can see between the lines. And I'm going to assume that the Council of State needs quite clarifying things in relation to this. Let me repeat, as I said in the introduction, that from the right-hand side we have assumed in this case that we prefer the least of two bottoms. I think it is reassuring to see today that the director of SND Invest strongly advises against this, based on possible suspicions of confusion in today's business and in a line in the Financial Newspaper. And only a possible suspicion of this in such a field will cause the entire construction to fall like a card house, but I think Norwegian business will be able to survive the journey.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e754	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e757	I'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e762	Ansgar Gabrielsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e765	The establishment of an investment company with both State and private capital has been in force for several years. The proposal on the organisation that is being discussed here today is a further development of the company that was launched by the government of Jagland in St.prp. No 1 for 1997-98, which was proposed again in the State budget for the current year and has been the subject of consideration by the Business Committee. The Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party asked the Government to return to the Stortinget, based on some given assumptions, so that the business community would be given the opportunity to increase access to risk capital. The Progress Party has consistently opposed the establishment of a semi-state investment company. We believe that private ownership is the natural and most effective form of ownership in business. At the same time as the proposal in the State budget for a State/private investment company to purchase into enterprises, there was a proposal to divest the same enterprises of equity. A number of fiscal tightenings were proposed in the State budget, such as short-term taxes, increased dividend taxes, VAT in new areas, increased electricity tax, aggravated taxes on wealth, and tightening the sharing model. Although not all of these proposals were implemented, there were undoubtedly negative signals to the market to be more restrictive in their position on investment. It seems paradoxical that it is then proposed to set up a semi-state investment fund to bring a small part of the money back to the companies. It is difficult to see that this is the way to achieve better profitability in business. After weakening the private equity of Norwegian business through sky-high taxes and taxes, funds shall be used to ensure Norwegian ownership of some enterprises. For the Progress Party, significant tax reliefs have priority. Norway is, in any case, not an attractive investment country. We are on the edge of Europe, we have poor infrastructure, little domestic market and much else that's going down. Therefore, we need to have world-class tax conditions that can attract interest in investment. Norwegian companies may then have conditions that, in total, are more equivalent to foreign competitors outside and at home. So it's not half-state structures that are the solution. On the contrary, they can work in the opposite direction by locking businesses firmly, while at the same time reducing the dynamics and growth capacity of businesses. However, the Progress Party recognises that there is currently no political majority in favour of significant tax relief, which is necessary to provide sufficient risk capital for Norwegian businesses. Furthermore, it is a majority that supports the establishment of a State/private investment company. Therefore, we want to express subsidiary positions and priorities within the framework of the solutions that can be established. The risk and financing problems are most experienced in the seed phase. Therefore, there is a basis for the involvement of the State at this stage. The use of funds should be organised in such a way that a significant proportion of them are deployed to take risks and promote early stage development. In NOU 2001: 11, From an insight into industry, it is pointed out that there is a strong need for investment in commercialisation before entering the stage at which ordinary external investors perceive the project as an investment object. Therefore, priority should be given to the development process by using state investment in seed funds, rather than for example. Venture and private equity funds. Government investment may raise good projects to stages where venture companies and other private venture capital are prepared to contribute more. For us, it is also true that this case is seen in connection with the SND message and the signals given here that this fund will have a freer position. SND represents the State in all the Seed Funds. This should be taken into account in order to make more rational use of the total resources. The Party of Advancement therefore considers it legitimate and right that the model presented by the Government best respects these considerations, rather than the model of the majority – consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party – has opted for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e780	I agree with Kjell Opseth that it is a great day for us who want to get this semi-state investment company. It's high time we got it. I believe that for many years it has been a majority on the Stortinget for such a scheme, but in some way we have not come that far. I think it is surprising that it has taken so long and that the fund has become so modest in relation to what we have been talking about. This may, of course, be due to the fact that in the Workers' Party too there is a certain skepticism of state ownership. Because this is a spice layer of private investors, it is of course also important that the scepticism against state ownership among the private seems to be growing. It's a shame, but I think it's a fact. It is now a prime task to make this system work well, while at the same time taking a force to restore confidence and respect for state ownership. Something has to be done. Firstly, the state's purpose of owning it must become clearer, because, of course, the state must have a purpose. I believe it is three-thirds: 1) It must be in the best interests of Norway in terms of its head office and environment of competence. 2) It must provide the best possible economic return. 3) It must contribute to our leadership in innovation and development. Secondly, you have to get rid of a mix of ownership and authority role. Department may not be a general meeting. Thirdly, the risk of ownership must be recognised and removed from politicians in order to avoid paralysis. Fourth, it must be predictable, active and long-term ownership. If you say we want three commercial banks, the state can't sell one next month. Fifth, government councils and directors have to stop talking negatively about the state that owns and does something to improve state ownership. How would it have turned out that a director said so much negatively about private owners that some directors of state companies are making themselves do? Sixth, the different state owners must be brought together under one direction – they must have at least one will. In my opinion, it is urgent to improve state ownership. That's why the Central Party yesterday invited the Stortinget to a direct debate to give the Government an investigative mission. I think it is a large majority who support that conclusion, but the debate on it was not wanted anyway. The State capital strength is a reality and must be exploited as a competitive advantage for the business sector in Norway. Of course, political leadership is needed. Everything that is being dealt with in the Storting is political leadership. Of course, it is the elected representatives who have to decide in general and sit with responsibility to the people who own this capital. This requires the expertise of industry and the financial community. They are the ones who will make the day-to-day decisions, for example: the fund in which it is to be invested and the companies in which it is to be invested. It's not for politicians. This must not mean that the State should be at risk in all fissures. I think it is right for the State to take the greatest risk in the seed funds by the fact that the state's money is loans and that the gain is limited. I don't think that should be the case in a venture phase arrangement, as this fund is going to be. In the opinion of the Centre Party, loans from this Fund should preferably not be made. I do not think it is right that in some cases SND Invest competes with private capital in areas with ample access to capital and on low-risk projects. The additional round now concluded on investment companies could have been avoided, in the same way as the additional rounds on salmon concessions, as we concluded yesterday. A majority of common policy leaders are needed to put in place important policies in new areas. The working party would be working with someone to get these leaders in place earlier. Based on what I have said, I am pleased that it will be SIVA and SND that will be a general meeting of the state company. They are associated with an outstanding experience and knowledge of Norwegian business. The contact network is large against private interests, including: financial institutions. The SIVA Innovation Networks can show good results. I am convinced that these two as principal owners will find a competent government. They will be able to help find the right partners to build up the individual funds, and not least ensure that the new companies in operation are informed that there are funds that manage, among other things. State million. It's true that there's been some pretty sprawling advice from the investor community. I am afraid that we have now tried to satisfy too many. I hope we can strengthen the cereal regime in another way, and I hope that there are far more powerful instruments to contribute government funds to a so-called private equity fund. We need a large and powerful tool if we are to help State Power, Norwegian Forest and others out, and at the same time contribute to the fact that Storebrand and other important owner environments are not being flagged out. This should be returned quickly by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e813	The representative Gabrielsen swung high. He got to a very high point when he talked about choosing between two bottoms. It was about how to use state capital and whether it should be used as equity in business, then you choose one evil. So using state capital in business is a bad thing for the Right. In any case, we are in a situation where the state sits on a large capital base, and it will grow. That's what happens when we redistribute the wealth into financial capital. It's really about how we want to dispose of our common financial capital. Most of this needs to be placed abroad, and it is located abroad and goes into the form of capital in foreign operations. We've been critical of some of these positions, but we don't have that many alternatives. The question is, are we going to use any more of this domestic to strengthen Norwegian business? That's what it's really about, and in what way we want to use it domestically. I expect that Gabrielsen and others have recorded what Victor Norman said a few days ago in the evening post, where he was concerned that a greater part of this capital should be used domestically, channelled into Norwegian business and strengthened it. We choose to look at this company in this way. That's why we also agree that a company will be established. We've previously agreed to set aside these billions, so they can go into private equity. We also think that the observation made by the majority in the opinion that SIVA and SND are going to go into the owner's side is a good construction. It is a good design because they have an important competence in this area, and there will also be slightly fewer state actors, and they also have the opportunity to develop high levels of competence in this area. We also believe that the state should be an active owner, it should engage in the businesses in which it places itself. We then agree with the comments made by the majority and support the position that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e828	Facilitating access to risk capital for innovative Norway is one of the most important contributions to growth and government can provide for future value creation. It has been important for the Left, and it has been important for our good colleagues in the other centre parties. Together we have, among other things: contributed to the strong strengthening of the regional seed funds and to the building of a powerful research and innovation fund, which is now reinforced by DKK 2.5 billion at the latest in the revised national budget. In contrast to the Right and Advance Party, the Left appears that the model of a state investment company adopted today, supported by the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, is a significantly improved version of the company originally wanted by the Workers' Party. The original idea of the Labour Party was, in the Left's opinion, very little about innovation, but made it clear that the right contacts, which knew the right channels and public corridors, were easier to find the way to our common oil bin. I would therefore like to commend the work that has been done to change as much as possible of the purpose of the Workers' Party with the company, not least by the case rapporteur, Jon Lilletun. Many good thoughts and leads form the basis for the model chosen here, focusing on new start-ups and selected areas in the Research Communication. Nevertheless, it is for me and for the Left that the model of a state investment company has serious weaknesses that make it impossible for us to give the majority our support in this matter. We have great difficulties in seeing what this company can do that could not be done much better and far more accurately by strengthening the seed schemes that already exist and that produce results across the country. Behind this company there is no analysis that takes into account where the capital requirement is greatest in the innovation process, an analysis that could thus have given an added value that we do not achieve through today's schemes. And last but not least, there is still plenty of room for action for the Government to use the fund to make ‘majority investments’ in more mature companies. The majority insure that such so-called majority investments should not occur so often. It was supposed to be missing, too. Of course, with a capital base of DKK 2.5 billion, the scope of action is limited in terms of heavy state investment in more traditional, mature companies. However, the fact that the government is given such clear powers to use the company for state purchases in existing businesses on the basis of highly unclear criteria is, in itself, fundamentally worrying. The Left, together with the Right, is therefore behind a proposal to use the funds allocated to strengthen the START Fund and the regional seed funds. It is a targeted and forward-looking attempt to achieve the majority's good intentions without creating new state structures with defective purposes and unclear criteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e843	The main purpose of the government with the investment company is to strengthen Norwegian capital environments so that Norwegian business can participate more fully in future-oriented, specific areas and thus also tackle structural changes and international competition. The majority of the Committee has supported these intentions. The Economic and Social Committee, in its setting up, has supported an investment company model based on the establishment of a purely State-owned investment company with an independent and professional board. This investment company is then entrusted with making investments in different professional funds, where the private are in majority – in line with its purpose. The Norwegian venture market is immature in relation to other European countries. Therefore, from the Government’s point of view, it has been a general objective in the design of the investment company model to contribute to the development of this market. In my opinion, this is best done by strengthening the asset management environment. These environments form the link between projects and capital. It is here that efforts should be directed, so that several of the commercially viable ideas that emerge from our research environments can be linked up with private, long-term investors. I agree with the Committee that one of the objectives of the investment company should be to build valuable networks between owners, managers, research and development environments and businesses. The majority of the Economic and Social Committee proposes that SND and SIVA be jointly owned by the State Investment Company – with the Ministry of Industry and Trade as the institutionally responsible – and that the competence of the two institutions be used in setting up the sectoral funds. In this context, I would like to point out that this is set out in a very demanding model, where the risk of conflicts of stability is evident in relation to the main activities of SND and SIVA, as the majority of the Committee stresses that SND and SIVA's own competences should be used. But this I expect the case rapporteur to clarify even more clearly, so that we know what we have to deal with, and so that there is no doubt that the company should be commercial and independent. It is important to stick to the commercial device of the model, which will be a fundamental prerequisite for bringing private investors. This means that one cannot impose on the funds the same nutritional and district policy objectives as those governing the activities of SND and SIVA. The funds must be allowed to operate commercially within the sectors concerned. The possible involvement of SND and SIVA in the sectoral investment funds must be an offer, in line with other spheres of competence, and not a mandate. With regard to SND’s competence in the field of investment, it is primarily linked to the subsidiary SND Invest, which invests directly in companies and indirectly through funds. SND Invest has recently established its own subsidiary, where its investments in regional venture funds are concentrated. In the further organisation of the investment company, it must also be important to use the expertise acquired in SND Invest in this field. That's what they can do. They're the ones who know the capital environment. Neither should the investment funds become too small. All experience suggests that small, geographically demarcated funds will have difficulties in achieving acceptable returns. In this context, I refer to the venture fund established in 1989, which consisted of state holdings in regional venture funds. The 1998 evaluation of these exposures showed that, overall, the regional venture funds achieved a return of the 1990s that was lower than the risk-free allocation to government bonds. Furthermore, the provision of skills and networks from the funds was very limited. The new investment company must be set up in such a way that we benefit from the experience we gained through the venture fund. I would also like to refer to the issues carried out in order to collect private capital from the regional seed funds. Although a significant element of government risk relief has been introduced here, there have been several rounds of issues now. Furthermore, we have had to postpone the original deadlines several times. The private capital of three of the Seed Funds is still lacking. The size of the funds and any geographical demarcation must be based primarily on an assessment of the profitability of the funds. Should the investment company be used to build up funds with a professional weight within the relevant industries and clusters, I believe that an attempt should be made to link R & D environments within the same disciplines of a single fund. It will give the fund the weight to become an engine for the development of value creation in the subject area, because it can be seen that many of the direct fund environments lack this weight. The State investment company will be subject to a return and dividend claim against which a similar private company would be confronted. This will ensure that the company has the right commercial position, so that the investments are business-economically well thought out, and – once again – that we get the private ones with. Within these frameworks, the Single European Act provides for flexibility in relation to the investment phases of the Funds, industry focus, size and structure. This flexibility should also apply to some extent to the type of capital to be used by the investment company. Thus, it may in some cases be appropriate to use subordinated loans and convertible loans in addition to share capital as long as this is based on purely business considerations on the part of the company. The Communication proposes that there should be an opening to establish one or more PE funds. I note that the Committee does not wish to use the EUR 2.45 billion allocation to set up such funds, but that the Committee asks the Ministry to come back to the Grand Duchy with a proposal for guidelines and a wider framework for a possible PE fund. Furthermore, I have noticed that the majority of the Business Committee in its vote on the SND Communication believes that the Ministry should also look into the organisation of the State equity instruments. I agree with the Committee that there is a need to look at the different instruments, so that we can see them in context, and we will do this in parallel with the establishment of the investment company. It is now important that all parties involved strive to develop the company as a tool for meeting the emerging value creation challenges, structural changes and international competition facing the Norwegian economy, within the framework of today’s cartoons.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e873	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e876	I almost don't know what to say about the post to the Council of State. I feel very much that the Minister of Industry tried to balance something in the middle of the staging message with the setting, and that promises to a great extent. Of course, the Council of State is aware that there is a majority of her principal wishes set out in the notification, and which have been reasonably well explained, not least in terms of flexibility in all possible ways and that commercial relations must be based also on this company, similar to the private funds, as the Council of State said. I have the impression that this is not something that two of those who are involved in the agreement with the Workers' Party have thought. And Morten Lund's posts carried so much of it, where he mentioned the Great Fire, the Norwegian Forest and other things that you should look at. When one first establishes this fund, I think it's important that one base what the Council of State said, namely that nutrition and district policy objectives must give way to commercial conditions in order for one to raise capital at all. In the main message, the Council of State has explained the work on the message itself. It states that ‘it has been particularly important for the ministry to have a market test of different models’. As far as I can understand, and it follows logically from what it says, the model chosen gave the best response in the market to raise capital, which is a prerequisite for it to become something of this at all. I guess the Council of State is familiar with the letter that came to the Presidency today, where the NVK strongly warns against the model that has been chosen, precisely because it could lead to a lack of private capital. Does the State Council share NVK's concern for the entire future of the fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e889	What is quite clear is that the board and the day-to-day management have to be professional, and it has to be commercial so that you have the power to bring with you the private actors, because they actually have to be the majority. That's $2.6 billion to be brought in. At the same time, it is important, and I hope that the rapporteur will clarify in the same way as Kjell Opseth made it clear, that there should be no mix of roles here. The competence of SIVA and SND cannot be used in the governing bodies and day-to-day management of the investment company itself, precisely because it is not necessary to get into the situation that those who are going to spend their own money wonder if there are different roles within it. We have spent a lot of time avoiding this in the government model. We've had close contact with the different investor environments, and I understand that once they've met in the committee, they've realized that the majority of the committee actually advocates such a professional and commercial attitude. The fact that some parts of the setting have been read, I hope that I can be clarified during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e898	There has always been great scepticism on the part of industry about this investment company. Both the NHO and the Norwegian Business Federation have been opposed, but after a good dialogue, among other things. with the venturers, the original model presented by the Government has been accepted. Clearly, there may be some misunderstandings within the picture, but a number of people representing the venture environments in Norway have now expressed themselves very negatively. They believe that the new model that the majority of population stands for will mean that it will be very difficult to get private capital in. I would therefore like the Council of State to expand on the possibilities of private capital. Is the chances of it now greatly reduced? Another thing is with venture companies and the VAT reform, that the management of venture companies should be subject to the VAT reform. Then some of these environments have been out saying that they might want to move abroad, at least be less competitive here in Norway, and this can help to weaken the model of the role of the new investment company and the ability to raise private capital. I would also like to have some views on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e905	It is true that there has been skepticism in some economic groupings, not least in the NHO. But in very many of their member companies there has been no scepticism; it has been a constructive attitude. I see in this context with a positive interest in the book by Victor D. Norman, which came out yesterday, that it was far ahead of a possible discussion and debate on the funding of e.g. our pension schemes, some of which have been called for. In the meantime, one should also consider using the country's financial strength constructively at home to improve the opportunities of our own businesses, especially in new areas. So there's been a lot of rounds here, but I think everyone's been in the process and now they're in the position of the investment company that's coming. Then the issue of the attitudes and opportunities of the investment company is reduced according to the model now presented by the majority of the Storting. No, I don't think it is. In some areas, however, the setting is unclear, for example: It is mentioned in a sketch that the company itself should be an innovation company. It has become very unclear, and this too, that SND's and SIVA's skills are to be used in the company itself, when it's really about getting private capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e914	It might be okay for the rest of the debate that one clears something up. All I have now is a question. If you go through the minutes, I think the Council of State will find that I had the same clarifications with respect to the company that the representative Opseth had. But I can quite simply confirm this by saying that I agree with the analysis and interpretation of the setting that the Council itself gave. It is in accordance with the case-speaker's opinion when the setting was recorded in the pen. What still lies in leadership, of course, is what has a doctor from the very beginning. It shall be directed towards the innovative and research-based and the main areas shall be as outlined. I would ask the Council of State to confirm that she is in agreement with that understanding. There is flexibility in long paths, and I want to say it so that when you see what has been said in the newspapers, someone needs good help to read more than what is in the setting. So to the specific question, and it applies to VAT to venturers. What many people say is that they are positive to the company – the Council of State is right to say that the company is very upset – but they are concerned that if VAT comes, it will not help, because then this environment will stop anyway. Is the Council of State prepared to find good solutions that make us internationally competitive, that no VAT should be applied to these services?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e927	I am pleased with the further clarification that came from the representative Lilletun. I think this is a good basis for getting a good company, when there's no mix of roles, and you have to build this on a commercial and professional basis. It is clear that the company should bring with it what the majority of the Stortinget had previously also agreed on, the specific areas and the new areas that might not be so many private ones would have gone into over a longer period of time. Here we suggest, for example, from five to ten years, that one should be over time to make this grow. That's the business idea that the company was given, and I'm glad it's agreed. With regard to VAT, we in the Ministry of Economic Affairs at an earlier stage have also addressed this with the Ministry of Finance. You're now looking at the boundaries, so we can count on being able to get exactly the same arrangements for our companies that you have internationally, because otherwise it's not possible for us to compete.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e935	To the last Council of State said when it came to trying to clarify what is involved in the VAT reform, it is certainly nothing more to do than to wish her happiness! There's a lot of headlines in the newspapers and new interesting things, and now it's even hit Stortingen's spice, so I guess there's new rounds here. But I also recorded Lilletun's statement that he shared the Council of State's analysis. It seems to me to be a step in the right direction, that at least two of the parties share the views of the Council of State. Now, of course, I'm not going to ask Morten Lund and the Center Party, but it should have been fun to hear Morten Lund say the same thing. The Minister of Industry said that the problems of viability are obvious – i.e. that the problems of viability are obvious with the chosen model. I could imagine asking the Council of State: what problems do she find most obvious in the model chosen?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e944	First of all, the first comment on VAT and also on the limitation of exemptions for financial services: what we are reviewing now, we are reviewing to ensure that what is, for example, what is happening. mutual funds, and the investment company, are treated equally. Well, that's going to be hard. So to this with flexibility: what I took up in my post there, and that I made concrete afterwards, is two ratios. One is when a statement about using the competence of SIVA and SND in the company itself is included, because they have different objectives than that of this company. On a professional and commercial basis, the company must ensure that private capital is collected, and then it must be allocated to the various areas of business which are subject to premise. It has now become clear to both the case rapporteur and the representative Kjell Opseth that the competences of SND and SIVA will be able to be used in concrete terms in the individual funds, in line with the competences that could otherwise be used in the regions. The second relationship concerns the sketch in the setting. The company itself is called an innovation company, but also the case rapporteur has made it clear that this innovation comes in later processes and that SIVA and SND are also in line with other professional environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e953	I would like to stress to the Council of State that VAT is extremely important. There is only one signal coming from the venture environments about this: getting VAT in this area – managing investment companies – will mean much lower activity in Norway and relocation. And we all know, especially in Norway, how big a problem it is to get risk capital, and hardly anyone can earn that chance. Experience from Sweden is clear, it's history: After VAT was introduced at a higher level here, a good part of these venture companies moved out of the country. That's the actual ratio. That's why I need to clarify this a little bit more closely with the Council of State. When she says you should see what it's like in comparable countries, for example. In Sweden, where many of these environments have been moved out, are we going to harmonise relations with Sweden and get the same negative emigration that you got there, or how is this to understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e958	What I have now clarified in several rounds is that the Ministry of Finance is going through the limitations regarding exemptions for financial services. In this context, the starting point is the same as for unit trusts and investment companies – it must be treated equally. I assume that the Ministry of Finance will come back to this, because we cannot stand up in the situation that some of our companies come out worse than others – also in relation to the international environments we are actually dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e965	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e968	This is the day when the flag would go to the top – I hope it's made my home. I have at least given notice of it. It is a positive message to Norwegian business that we have put in place the state's share of the capital base of a state investment company with a capital base of 5 billion kroner. The idea is that the state should participate in strengthening the Norwegian capital environment. Norway is a society with a high level of general competence. Our potential lies in the potential to develop new, good ideas and to commercialize them. On several occasions we have experienced that good Norwegian companies have been bought up by foreign operators and flagged out. It is clear that a strengthening of the Norwegian capital bases is needed to counteract these developments. What could be more right than that the state consults a little of its wealth and works together with private investors? And this with a signal that is of such a nature that these can feel confident that the state is serious when it is stressed in the proposition and setting that the investment company is to act as a professional owner, with clear demands for return on the state deposits and demands that the objectives of the various funds be respected. As is currently the case, the SIVA and SND shall be the owner of the investment company and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade shall have the constitutional responsibility of the Stortinget. It is inevitable that the investment company's board of directors should be professional and independent. In several meetings with the investor environment, there have been indications of success factors that need to be in place, including: that when appointed, the Governing Board must be free to make assessments and arrangements. Furthermore, it will be decisive that qualified people are recruited, that there must be a certain size of both the company and the various funds in order to be able to have an exposure with the ability to spread risks, that there is room for entering into several companies, and that there will be room for a reasonable management loss within a reasonable cost framework when it comes to administration. There is a strong interest in the creation of several funds to have a national scope and to be firmly anchored in a broad regional professional environment. The industrial and commercial competence of the management of these funds shall be primarily safeguarded by the private owners. It's important. There is also a clear assumption that these have multiples in control. The investment company’s contribution to the governance of the individual funds will then mainly focus on networking towards the research and development environment. The majority in the Committee would like to see a most independent investment company, and this coupled with the investor environment's demand for such independence and professionalism to ensure that the country's heaviest and most professional management environment is given such a task. It is not the intention of the majority that this company should be established in a physical pool of cork with SND or SIVA, on the contrary. It is an explicit objective that the investment company should strengthen the Norwegian ownership and competence environment, not only by adding capital to business, but by providing the industry with competence and networks that promote long-term thinking. It is worth noting that one of the options asked the Ministry of Economic Affairs to come back to the Stortinget with a proposal for guidelines and an expanded framework for a possible private equity fund, mainly to make majority investments in more mature enterprises with a potential for development. I expect that there will be a framework that is proportionate to the development needs of large Norwegian companies. I hope such a case can come to Stortinget soon. I would like to stress that the organisation of the investment company must take place in a way that clearly demonstrates to private investors that the new state investment company is to act as a professional owner who, on a commercial basis, is to play a central role in the development of the most relevant areas for the establishment of investment funds. I argued that the Ministry of Economic Affairs would draw up guidelines and statutes for the company that would provide this with all clarity. I also welcome the clarifications that have come during this debate on how to understand the setting. Finally, when it comes to the debate on who secures the plurality of the vote, I would say that cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Central Party has a better wear and tear also for the further development of the state investment company and the capital base on the state's hand. Kjell Opseth did well for the history to get the state money in place for this purpose. Right came materially on the track – not five at twelve, but five above. Layout says if support for something we knew Right was against, wasn't much to rely on. I don't want to let this hang in the same direction at the Progress Party's handle.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e996	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e999	What's left is that we're now establishing a fund to help raise capital for important, innovative businesses. The committee has been listening after hearing and visiting, even in the municipality of Oslo, where they say that there is a lack of capital for the type of business that we are talking about here. Most of the hearing aids have said the same thing. There's a lack of capital. To a very large extent, the hearing authorities have also supported the establishment of a company. One might say – it also says the Christian People's Party – that state ownership should not be increased in total and should not be developed in classical terms. But more and more people talk about it and more and more people see it as a paradox that with the wealth of capital we have, we leave behind supporting our own business; we invest instead. For this reason, it is important that we now get so broad a social uproar that this makes sense. But there's a new way to think and spend money on the state. While a pre-established state enterprise now uses this capital as a minority capital to make private capital sufficient. And when it's a private plural, it'll always be the commercial that's at stake. And then that's the last thing we go for, where there might also be mature companies where the state buys into a plural situation. It's about companies that are important within our strategic field. I believe that if you take a poll and talk with Norwegian companies, there will be a clear majority saying that it is important that a head office, strategy department and research department are in Norway. Therefore, it must be possible to have two thoughts in our head at once – both that we should be commercial and able to compete internationally in that way, and that we should use the capital we have to ensure the best possible business life in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1008	In the Coastal Party, we agree that it is a paradox that we, as such a capitalist nation, are unable to obtain loan capital, investment capital, for our corporate life. One of the main problems is that we conduct a tax policy in this country that governs private capital. We have large private shareholders in Norway who prefer to invest their capital abroad because they get too little returns here. I really think it's a bigger paradox that we deliberately govern the capital that should be available, through taxes and taxes, than we have problems finding loan capital. I also think it is a big problem that the state uses its economic muscles to go in and buy up private business that could live well in the private investment market, if there was a business policy that was aimed at ensuring long-term private ownership. What happens to the way the Workers' Party punishes private ownership is that one strangles the companies that have been based on private ownership, and that one uses the country's economic muscles to go in and buy up to far more than the value it should have had, to ensure government governance with development companies. We can only point to how the State introduced Norwegian Forest into an unjustifiable amount of state capital in order for this company to be stronger in the competitive market than the private operators within a value-creating food chain such as aquaculture. This is a much bigger problem – the way the state that capital owners act in relation to private capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1017	I did not intend to take the floor, but it was Tveiden's post that got me to do it. I think the Coastal Party representative has healthy instincts in this area. Lilletun referred from the hearings where almost everyone said there was a lack of capital, and almost everyone said that they support the creation of the fund. It's understandable that they do, considering the situation. But as I said, the representative Tveiten made me take the floor. I think Opseth had a fair approach to this in his introduction, where he referred to what Right at an early stage had announced what it was possible to get a majority in favour of the Stortinget, which I suppose the Tveiden representative has been briefed on. As Opseth said, he and the Workers' Party chose to influence the Central Party and the Christian People's Party on the final result – we must respect that – as a thank you for changing their position from the time a similar proposal was made by the government of Jagland. That they should have something left for it, is fair. But it is also important that, for the time being, it is generally known that there were not five or twelve Workers' Party got it; it was a week before the Committee gave its opinion, that the Workers' Party was informed of the possibility of having the letter adopted, to the extent that it was interested. But I respect what Opseth said, namely, letting the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have influence, given the fact that they were involved in securing a majority for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1027	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3526]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1041	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3527]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1055	The headline was long, the letter from the department was short, and I'm not going to hold on any longer than necessary. The letter from the Ministry shows that the work on a comprehensive encryption policy is now being completed and that the Stortinget will be briefed on this. I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm that the briefing will be in such a form that the Storting will then have a chance of entering into the fundamental balances relating to encryption, in relation to electronic commerce, privacy and legitimate police interests, in order to safeguard these interests when entering the Internet. I'm just asking for such confirmation, because then I don't have to keep any longer posts here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1062	I can only confirm it as the representative of Dørum here takes up. As is natural when it comes to increasing the use of encryption, there will also be some borderline moves to be made, especially vis-à-vis the police and the entire justice sector. We're working on this, and we're counting on this to be clarified in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1067	For example, the councils were precise when it came to what the work was. I just asked for a confirmation that when this work is done, it is presented to Stortinget in such a way that the Stortinget will then have the opportunity to make its assessment of the balances.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1072	It was a mistake. Of course, Stortinget should also be briefed here and have the opportunity to bring her on a very important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1077	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3527]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1091	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1100	There is a broad consensus in this house to increase the effort for safety at sea. In the setting of the National Transport Plan, all parties announced that they wanted increased appropriations for ports and fairways. There has therefore been a strong expectation of St. gemeld. No 28 about the Firsts we're dealing with today. There has been a pressure both inside and outside this house to get the fire report, and the interest from the users has not diminished since the message was submitted. Guys still have a very important function for safe navigation along the coast. The manning of the guys has been a fight question before and still is. There are three main issues involved in the Committee's setting up: the de-manning of first-time operations, the possible continuation of Loran C and the creation of a fire museum. An overall committee agrees that technological developments have reduced the need for the crewing of the principalities. Out of a total of 107 first sixes, only 31 are staffed. The Christian People's Party does not intend to propose that any of the presidencies that have already been decapitated should be remanded. There was an important issue in the previous treatment of the corresponding case. We are also not locked on to today's number. 31 manned first-timers are not a sacred number. But we take seriously what the government itself writes, that the physical presence gives a security effect, and that some of the princes perform other important tasks for the voyage along the coast. Safety is linked to the eyes that see, and the ability of those who travel along the coast to contact the guys before they go out in bad weather. All manned first-time jobs are now automated in terms of operations, but the fire department is currently carrying out additional tasks that cannot be automated. Firefighters are often responsible for the maintenance of rental marks in the area around them. It is a task that has to be done in any case; the chieftains themselves must be maintained in any case. Other tasks are not directly related to the needs of the Coastal Plant, but weather observations such as: has absolute safety implications for coastal shipping. A lot can be measured correctly with automatic equipment. However, something requires manual observation. This concerns, among other things: on fog, in particular observation of fog at a distance, and it is further concerned with the height of the cloud deck, etc. Therefore, in the Christian People's Party, we want to clarify how the tasks in relation to weather observations can be carried out before de-manning becomes relevant. On our part, it is a prerequisite that services performed for others are also financed by others. If weather observations become an important task for lighthouse keepers, contracting entities must help to cover the costs. It has been stated that 50 out of 116 employees today will be working on maintenance within the Coast Guard. It has also been calculated as an investment of the order of 75-80 million. kr in equipment for manning the last 31 men. In relation to investment, savings are not particularly high. Here, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the security factor should also weigh with, sometimes, heads and ears for other factors. With the possibilities available to exploit the guys as bases for maintenance and the other tasks the crew performs, we believe from the Christian People's Party that there is no basis for concluding that all the guys are to be disembarked. We want an individual assessment of each guy before deboarding, and we ask that users, who are also involved and pay for security through the coast fee, be included on advice before deboarding occurs. The message has a chapter with a general discussion of maritime safety. This refers to the Loran C land-based navigation system in terms agreed by the Committee. We had already been told in the budget for the current year that the Ministry of Fisheries would carry out a detailed assessment of the Loran C system in relation to future involvement with electronic navigation aids, and that investigations had been ordered as the basis for the position. Norway is in the lead in the case of Loran C, and the Norwegian position will be crucial for the interest of other nations in developing Loran C. It is therefore alarming that the Government concludes without further discussion with the Committee on Transport in a brief section of St.prp. No Eighty-four. And this isn't a government discussion, it's an information that the government has come to a conclusion – Loran C will be closed after the end of the period in 2005, if nothing happens in the technological development that is up-to-date. It is no less alarming that the Workers' Party's fraction in the Committee on Transport is pleased with the Government's decision in St.prp. No 84, which does not contain any evaluations at all, as requested by the Committee. A majority of the Committee, all except the Workers' Party, believes that the consequences are far too little discussed in St. prp. No Eighty-four. The short review provides too little basis for decision-making. Therefore, a majority calls on the Government to make a more thorough assessment and submit it to the State budget for 2002. In the Christian People's Party, we are very little satisfied that the Government has already announced the phase-out of the Loran C in the NELS Committee, because it will affect the position of the other countries and reduce the possibility of developing equipment for the new Loran C system. From the Christian People's Party we believe the time to conclude is later, not now. The government is right that other technologies can lead to the decommissioning of Loran C once in the future. From the Christian People's Party we will consider this as the term of the agreement approaches the end. Whether there is technology that makes the Loran C system more popular, or whether technological development has gone in a different direction, we can't say anything about now. An almost overall committee agrees with the priority for the disposal of first-time work. Priority shall be given to public institutions, municipalities and non-profit institutions serving households. In the Christian People's Party we are concerned with the great importance of voluntary teams, associations and organisations playing in Norwegian society. We therefore want these types of organisations to be catered for. I am pleased that there is also a majority for clarification beyond what the Government has mentioned in the message. All – except the Advance Party – agree that it is necessary to consider disposing of first-time contracts to public institutions or voluntary teams and associations with non-profit-making purposes at a tariff level, rather than selling at private prices at market prices. In some cases, this may be a necessary prerequisite for the groups we have prioritised, at all, being able to take over a 1st. Work is in progress to establish a National Museum Organisation for Norwegian Lights. It is important that this is soon to find its solution. Taking care of important cultural memories is a sector responsibility, and the presidencies are absolutely important in this way. The principalities often have a special location and rugged structures that make them important cultural memories. 85 first sixes and 5 fog watches are therefore proposed for peace. The principalities have further roots in Norwegian coastal culture, and a joint committee has therefore pointed out that it is a responsibility for individual state agencies to document their own cultural history, both in the form of preservation of cultural memories and the operation of museums. The Committee refers to the existence of a proposal from a working group for the establishment of an establishment museum following a network model. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that this network model can now continue, where Lindesnes, Tongenes, Dalsfjord and Lofoten will have a fireworks museum. It can be more reasonable than the establishment of a large unit and is otherwise in line with St.meld's intentions. No 22 for 1999-2000 and Innst. S. No 46 for 2000-2001 from the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs. An overall committee requires the Government to provide an orientation on the progress of the Lighthouse in the context of the 2002 State Budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1136	The Storting is today being invited to make decisions to end a time epoch in our coastal history. Automation of lights and lights that turn on when necessary, camera surveillance, satellite navigation, radar surveillance with reception both on the boats and on the land have caught us. We're just sitting there with the nostalgia. We're going to take care of it by providing everyone with access to four and the surrounding areas as much as possible. The past will see the history of the coastal people's everyday lives and the struggle for the daily bread. It's important to take care of it, it tells us about unreasoning men who took our long-distance, weather-hard coast into use both for fishing and fishing and as a route. Four had so absolutely their mision; there was light there that showed seafaring a seaway full of hollows and happening and where it was safest to go. The four were built at a time when the eye observed everything. It's not like that today. We have access to equipment that makes these workplaces superfluous, and the workers can be recovered in working laws in the shipping function of the Coast Guard. But I find reason to stress that in the Coastal Works, different methods are to be used when de-manning four NSBs have used for the corresponding de-mandments at their stations. Every guy should be evaluated for all social tasks they have, e.g. The weather forecast being performed. And not least, new technology should be in place before people travel to land for the last time. I dare remind you that four things are automated today – we must not let nostalgia control development. Today we have 31 guys who are manned. Employees and organisations are set to work together on practical solutions. In addition, there is a rather high age average in the firing pool, and as we organize a new era and time goes on, people who are going to continue will get new and probably more meaningful tasks than they have today. One calculates that it's about 50 people. Because there's something our long-distance coast is screaming for, there's more labelling and more maintenance than we've been able to have so far. The working party has seen increased security and performance in the high seat, not just in words, but in action. The reorganization of the Coastal Works and the move of the Coastal Directorate to Ålesund was, as I said in my post at the time, the foundation wall for society to increase safety at sea and a better use of resources. The survey of crew, the boat park into the shipping function, and not least efficient operation, would ensure such results. In addition, additional funds have been added in the national transport plan to the service of fireworks and labels. There are really actions that will produce results in the very short term. And that's what it takes. We lack good charting, better inspection and maintenance, and the speedboat rentals require other markings than we have so far had. I'm not supposed to be able to identify the environmental hazards of bad labelling. But the installation of new and better technologies requires investment. One calculates that about 75-80 million. kr will agree to this. Nevertheless, operating costs will decrease in the long term. The salary budget will be moved to posts where it will give the best result to society. Because it's well increased security that's our common overarching goal, and not unpopular decisions where some of us have a guy in their own country. Because it's a election fight! Marine industries want to increase conditions of competition for maritime transport. Today it's like 30 pst. the costs of this part of the infrastructure are covered by the general coastal charge. The rest put the state in a pot. In this way, one should not be surprised that business organisations like to see us provide labelling, lighting, wave alerts and lead camera monitoring. When it concerns Loran C, and especially the commitment shown by Bø in the West to retain the extra crew, I'll refer you to the Council's posts later. But I find that users otherwise have the most focus, not to say all focus, on GPS and DGPS as navigation equipment. Even if the Government gave a signal in the revised national budget to cancel the agreement with the NELS in 2005, there are opportunities to continue and review it until 2004. But when giving a pill to the government for the time the signal came, it becomes more important to some party than the contents of the case, it says. I'm sorry about that, but that's the way it is in politics. It's not always an inward assumption that the government didn't have the good advice to give the Storing at the "right" time. That's how it sometimes happens when you're in international cooperation. When the redundancy of four is completed in a few years' time, when the Coast Guard gets a full overview of the boat park and the work force can make the best use of the workers, when the lights become more reliable than today, then all of these individual components, together with testing and research on equipment that is best suited along our long-distance, weather-hard coast, will give us the result everyone wants: more marking and safer travel routes along the national road. 1st@item: inlistbox The committee agrees on the goal, it's more about the way to go we write a little different in the setting. We're also all a few people who want to take care of the cultural heritage and the accessibility of everyone, but the way in which the papers operate can be different. We are invited to take a forward-looking decision today – it is such a good day for the coastal people and for Norway as a maritime nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1162	Unfortunately, in recent years, we have had several coastal tragic accidents that have shown in many ways that there is a need for increased focus on improving safety at sea. In addition to the already existing challenges that we have, I believe that significant growth can also be expected in maritime transport in the years to come, perhaps especially related to dangerous goods. Increased oil transport along the Norwegian coast can also be expected if developments in Northern Russia continue. And we all know what plans have been made by certain teams to transport nuclear waste along the Norwegian coast. All of this is obviously a development that will increase the focus on what we do along the Norwegian coast to ensure ourselves against accidents, accidents that may have quite different consequences from the tragic consequences we have seen up to now, actually more serious than that. Therefore, it is important to focus on safety in order to improve it. And it is true, as the rapporteur pointed out, that in the national transport plan, this was one of the most important points for the Committee to focus on. In the years that come, I think it will also be important. In addition to what's happening in general, I think it's also – in addition to what I just said – a development related to the speed of the sea. It is obvious that with the ships currently being built and planned, and the future we can see – although it is difficult to predict – the overall speed of the sea will also increase. It will once again strengthen the requirement of security, and that is a question of whether the systems we have today are going to match the technological developments we see. I don't have an answer to that. But I think maybe there is also a development that will probably make it necessary for us to look at new technological solutions related to maritime transport. When you've focused so much on security, you might say: what about canceling a guy, whose security is the most important thing. I think that's the paradox we're coming up with. I think it's going well, and I think it'll go in that direction. It's like the human eye for a certain time and under certain conditions it was important, but I think the world has gone far further. I think it is now more possible through technological application to have a far greater overview and a far, far greater security than the human eye can provide. I think it's evolution. That's why I perceive that what's happening now is moving the crew from the guys and doing it another way, among other things. in the case of marks and everything else to be done is correct. It's not a reduction in security, it's actually an increase in security. This must also be seen in the context of other measures to be taken. This is also evident in a wide range of areas related to technology. The central focal point in this context is the coordination of what is already being monitored on the Norwegian coast, which is on what defence is doing, what we are doing with different opportunities to see, hear and listen. By seeing whether we can coordinate these resources in a much better way than we have done today, I think we could also monitor the Norwegian coast much more closely in favour of shipping and safety. In this context, the discussion we have had on electronic maps is important. Perhaps one of the most important things is that you can take advantage of the opportunities that lie there, and connect them with new technology and thus get this. There's an incredible amount of exciting happening in this area, and I think we're just at the beginning of a development. Therefore, it is important for me to stress this by keeping up the focus and pace of electronic navigational charts. And so have others. The second is a development related to AIS, transponders on ships, which I think are incredibly exciting, and which also gives us new opportunities. I look at my great pleasure that IMO, which I have never felt to be such an expressive body to get things done quickly, has actually decided that this should be in place in 2008, on certain ships already in 2002, in July 2002, if I don't remember mistakes. This will also provide opportunities related to the systems that we have, and I see in many ways that there are some of them in the Revised National Budget of the Government. It is not my task to brag by the Government, but in this particular area I think they deserve a little honey. The coordination they have set up between the different departments related to this, and the discussion that is taking place in the revised link to a traffic monitoring centre in Finnmark, I find it exciting. And then we'll see what it's going to be, and which system we'll eventually choose. But I see all these things in context, and see in many ways that what we're doing today, is a little bit to say goodbye to a technology that was at the time, but that evolution has gone by otherwise. One more thing that I also want to boast about: I read on the last page of the evening post that it was actually also taken as an initiative in this new technology system, connecting the Coastal Plant to the Kongsberg environment to develop R & D contracts related to transponders. I think that's very nice. Because for many years, at all times, we've been a great nation also linked to electronically controlled maritime transport, and if we can develop new things there, I think it's very, very good. The sum total is so that what we see today is actually a development related to technology that I find both right and right. And then, of course, we have to figure out what the different systems can accommodate us. But I think this is a good day for safety at sea. So a little bit about Loran C. For the right part: what's in the setting is what we stand for. You haven't taken a position on this with Loran C, you kind of wanted to have a broad discussion of that. A report that was submitted to the Committee seems to me in many ways to be too thin a basis for making such a significant decision. But I emphasize here and now that we have not taken any position on this, and that we mean what we mean. We write that we will assess this, and expect the government to return to it in the 2002 budget, and then we will look at that development. In the case of fireworks, the disposal of a guy and any takeover of a guy by a private person, I know very well which criteria are used. But I want to underline as much as I can, that for us – and there are many – these preteens are something very special. I also think the department and the people who are involved in it are aware of that. It's linked to historical traditions, and you actually have emotional ties to it. It also means that as far as you can, culturally historically, you have to try to take care of them, so that the public can benefit from it. I can guarantee that the Right should also be involved, and not be of those who want the most money into this area. If one can obtain a form of operation here that ensures these cultural values for the future, and takes care of them, there should be no lack of support from the Right to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1194	The progress party agrees that today, when our lighthouse along the Norwegian coast is automated, there is no need for permanent staffing or crew construction, except where the lighthouse is used as a firstment with the necessary supervision and maintenance of other lighthouses. Many lighthouses, however, represent a cultural heritage that is desirable to take care of. Therefore, it is appropriate to allow for the sale or loan of historical-valued lighthouses that are subject to maintenance clauses. Now it is that many of the guys are inaccessible, far out in the sea, and are therefore difficult to access for private and tourists. These are difficult to put on any clause, and therefore the possibilities are limited. Here is the possibility of sale, or of public maintenance where it is desirable to preserve the buildings. The Progress Party believes that the Coastal Plant at Fyrvesenet should only be responsible for the operation and maintenance of operational lighthouses and installations. Where continuing staffing is desirable for social or safety reasons, it should be possible to do so by combining different actors. As regards navigation safety along our coast, the Progress Party considers that the Loran C land-based navigation system falling under the responsibility of the Ministry of Fisheries should be maintained until a detailed assessment of the Loran C system has been carried out in relation to future involvement with electronic navigation aids. In the EU, for political, economic and strategic reasons, work has been started with the European Space Agency (ESA) to establish a European-controlled global satellite navigation system, known as Galileo. Norway participates in this work through its membership of ESA and financial contributions to the 5th Framework Programme of the EU. The budget for this year also granted grants for the development and operation of Loran C. In a letter from the Ministry of Fisheries v/Fisheries, dated 29 November 2000, dated to the Committee on Transport, it was blacked out that the Swedish Defence Telecom and Computer Service had investigated the possibility of converting the station in Bø in the West to a permanent control centre for Loran C, and they concluded that this was possible, but that this had to be seen in the context of the ongoing developments in Eurofix, and awaited clarification of the possible integration of Loran C as a support system in a future European satellite system. That's why it's weird that it's in St. pp. No 84 for 2000-2001 by the Ministry of Finance, in a briefing case to the Stortinget, it appears that the Government has decided that Norwegian participation in the North-West European Loran C cooperation will not be continued and that a permanent Norwegian control centre will not be established at the station in Bø. The Progress Party believes that before such a decision is taken, the ongoing development of Eurofix must be awaited, with Loran C as the possible support system of a future European satellite system, such as Galileo. It is also important to maintain the expertise in Bø until the system has been clarified. The subsequent shipping accidents show that there is a need for correct positioning with land-based correction of satellite signals, and for the maintenance of work on electronic navigational charts. When the Workers' Party trusts GPS, or DGPS, there is one thing that makes me a little worried. When we were on the Skrova guy during a trip we had with the Transport Committee, the GPS on board the boat showed that we were on our way over an island – and that was not the case at all! Therefore, I believe that we should not pull over the correction tools we have, but also be involved in developing a new and better system that corrects today's GPS.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1211	The first two have been and are still an important part of the coastal shipping infrastructure. Of course, developments have also led to changes in navigational aids. Electronic navigation aids have gradually given access to more accurate positioning than before. But the firstments and markings of the lease are an important support system for all boats. For boats that have not acquired new technology and equipment, lighthouses, lights and brands will still be important – and perhaps the only system. The government strongly emphasizes that automation, remote control and various routines have established a system that can defend the fact that there are no crews on the first couple of 24 hours a day. At the same time, it says in the message: ‘In an overall assessment of the role of men in safety at sea, the Government’s conclusion is that manning first-timers is no longer a crucial element.’ No longer a decisive moment, says the Government. But in such a statement, there can be nothing but the fact that the Government of My Manning on the papers is still important. Nevertheless, the Government concludes that all Firsties should be demanded. So this happens many years before we get electronic maps covering the whole coast, and at a time when there's still a great deal of lack in marking the rent. The message also refers to the other tasks that were assigned to the First Instance. The conclusion of the message is that the Ministry of Fisheries cannot allow these other tasks to be determined as to whether or not the Firstions should be manned. Of course, the Ministry of Fisheries should pay particular attention to its principal tasks. However, in my view, the additional tasks carried out for other agencies or institutions must also be emphasised. For example, the Meteorological Institute, before the Committee, has strongly understated the value of manual observations from several of the manpower counties. The monitoring of the lease, the simple assistance for small boats, the warning of pollution and the contact point for the maritime rescue service are other important tasks they add to the First Generations. The economy of the service provider is an important theme of this message. I'm, as I also understand that the government is, busy that we're going to use the resources in the most efficient way possible. At the same time, we need to be able to afford to carry out important societal tasks. The rule is that your conversion should give you a saving. The question is whether savings are going to be particularly large. Very many of the tasks they have added to four must also be carried out in the future. The costs will not be gone because they are to be carried out by non-priests. An important task for adding to the Firstions has been the maintenance and supervision of buildings and installations. These are tasks that will not be less important in the future. The first two are, of course, very hard. The maintenance trough is high, and without daily supervision, the extent of maintenance can easily be greater than it is today. When the Government proposes that approx. Half of those who are currently attached to the Firsties will in future be provided with maintenance work, I believe it is absolutely necessary. The principalities are important cultural memories of coastal culture. So I want to go along with what a committee has said, that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Agency are responsible for preserving cultural heritage within their own sector. The Coastal Museum has not been created, as other etaters have done. I am therefore concerned that this work must now be carried out in a timely manner so that a solution can soon be found. The Ministry of Fisheries has an important responsibility here. Finally, a few words about Loran C. It is very strange that the Ministry of Finance says in a Stortinget briefing that the Government has decided that Norway will not participate in the North-West European Loran C cooperation, and that a permanent Norwegian control centre will not be set up at the Bø station in the West. The Loran C system is an important backup system. Before taking such an important position as the Government proposes, it is of course necessary, in the opinion of the Centre Party, to make detailed arrangements. I am therefore very pleased that such a large majority in the committee have asked to get these questions back as their own business.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1237	I hope I manage to navigate through 5 minutes without any special script, without it becoming a disaster. Technological developments are creating some changes. Many were skeptical when the ladies at the telephone station disappeared. They knew where the district doctor was, where the loner was, and maybe more. But it's an era that's over. When remote control and automatic train stop arrived on the routes, the crew, which had to do with safety, also disappeared. It's kind of a consequence of getting a new technology. And the lighthouse guards had a big place in the heart of the coastal population. It's in many ways an epoch that's over, and maybe it's a little bad to set the finish line for when we conclude today that time might be in there to cancel the remaining guys. The guys are fully automated with almost 100 pst. operational safety and manning duties have been reduced. I think it's important to think about how to use resources as efficiently as possible. When it comes to maintenance on brands, lights, lights, etc., we have a aftermath. It has also been mentioned here that the crew of the guys takes care of the maintenance on the lighthouse and perhaps also some of the areas around, where it is convenient for it. I think it is important to establish a maintenance team to cover the widest possible range of best use. They will also, of course, maintain the guys who are going to be disembarked. If it is possible to use the guys as a base, and possibly have a crew, and the professional view is assessed as an efficient use of the resources, I think that's okay. The weather service is important, but I doubt that we can have a crew of 31 guys – perhaps not so many, not everyone has that service – and that the Meteorological Institute is willing to pay. Then you have to try to find a solution that allows you to get good weather services, but I don't think that can be the basis for maintaining the crew. So it's said a little bit about safety, it's observing ship movement in the area around the guys. Now we know that the lighthouse guards don't sit and look at the sea – it's not a 24-hour surveillance. We also know that it's limited how far they see, and the more stormy, the more limited it is that the human eye sees from the guys. But they're there, that's right, and someone's calling there and asking what the situation is. Then the problem becomes for me: if this is an important part of a safety thinking – if it is important to have the human eye on the guys – then it must be right to start discussing the re-manning of the guys. Perhaps it's even important in relation to a security policy thinking to say that sea where there is no fire, we have to establish observation posts. But nobody's saying. Then I wonder why it is so important that the very guys who are staffed today are maintained for security reasons. I kind of believe that this isn't going to be the right use of resources. It has a limited effect. So I have a little bit of a problem understanding the reasoning, but I see that it's maybe the nicest way to do it, that's by saying that we don't touch the crew where it's crewing, at least it has to be assessed individually, and then you don't have to say anything about how to evaluate this individually. It might have been more comfortable to belong to the minority, but I think in a way that I don't make this logical to extend to. So I hope you can develop an even better maintenance, take back a lot of the lag that is, and find good solutions for the weather service. So there's some comments here from a minority, consisting of the center and the right, about the disposal of the guy that I don't understand. It deals with the importance of voluntary teams and organisations. That they play an important role, everyone agrees. But you have a priority list -- 1, 2, 3, 4 -- and I wonder if they're going to move on to the priority, or if they're still going to be in the third place. I do not understand the comment. Otherwise I'm glad that Loran C is being taken up to a more thorough professional discussion, and not in that a little arrogant way: the government has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1260	I thought I would do as the representative Myrvoll: try me without a script and see if it becomes a disaster! I want to start by giving tribute to the Government that has taken part in coordinating the various departments and agencies that work with security and preparedness along our coast, and I hope that this work will continue. When we now discuss the abduction of a guy, I want to say that for the Left it is important that one is a leader was. The representative, Sigrun Eng, said – I believe I quote correctly – that new technology must be in place before the last man left. That's actually left-wing agreement. But we want to give them the signal that this actually has to happen, that it is important that a person implements the new technology and coordinates the resources that one today spends on security along our coast, before we remove something that is lying there. There are the signals we want to give. When it comes to the assessment of which guy to mannify, and whether that's what the representative Myrvoll said, that there was a need to rebemann some of them, there are assessments that both I and Left are unable to do. But when a settler, let it happen in such a way that one is guaranteed that security is in place. Weather forecasts and forecasts are part of your security and these assessments must also be part of your overall assessment. Then you get to have a discussion about who's going to pay. So the question of the Loran C system. There the representative Sigrun Eng was concerned that it was important for some parties to give a pill to the government. Pills platter sometimes cure. But that wasn't what the Left was busy about. We were concerned that before we put something into it, we need to know whether what comes next is just as good or better. Based on the various signals coming from the Government in this case, we want to get the case back to Stortinget. We haven't made any decisions about what's best, but we want to get everything on the table, until we make that decision. And then I want to say a little bit about the Firstions. The left is united in the order of priority when it comes to who should have the opportunity to buy princes who have nothing to say about navigation, namely, first state institutions, then municipal or county institutions and teams. We are also some in that one should consider selling at a price when four are to be used for non-profit purposes. It is to ensure that those who are going to run these four will keep them up to date and not spend so much on the purchase that they do not have the economy for operation and maintenance. Then I want to talk about my own guy – and maybe send a greeting home in the election campaign – simply the Ryvarden guy. There was a guy where parts of the buildings were falling down. The municipality went in and rented this from the Coastal Agency, and they have done a great job. When a municipality that has had to deal with bad economics wanted to bet on this, it actually sees how important it is to keep these cultural memories. There's an art gallery, and it's election speed out to the fire all year, not only to look at the art, but also to enjoy the weather and what's out there. It is clear that with the tragic accident we had with «Sleipner», Ryvarden means something completely different to us – both at good and at bad. I'm saying this to show that these four have a benefit, have a value, and that it's important to secure them for the eel. It's important to take care of the coastal culture we have. We feel in the Left that coastal culture may have been treated with a little voice. If you look at the time it has taken, for example to get a high-speed route museum, to secure and take care of the high-speed route, we, as many people, want to get ahead of what also goes on at the lighthouse, what goes on at a national level of protection for these cultural memories. We are behind getting an orientation from the Progress Rule. It's a little bit urgent to take care of these, and it's important to secure the cultural memories that are along the coast. There's a part of us that has a beating heart, and we want to equalize these cultural memories with other cultural memories.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1283	Safe and efficient maritime transport is an important key element of the Government’s first-ever announcement. A good maritime transport infrastructure is important for competitiveness, value creation and employment. In order to achieve maritime transport as an efficient and environmentally sound transport service, it is essential to ensure the safety of the fairways. This requires good navigation aids and high quality of the water display. Electronic navigation aids are becoming increasingly important for safety and communication at sea. This includes satellite navigation, electronic navigational charts and maritime information and communication technologies. Nevertheless, there will still be a need for a number of traditional navigation aids such as lighters, lamps and markers. The main message reviews available navigation aids for shipping. A description of the various measures intended to ensure safety at sea is also provided. In this context, the Government has carried out an assessment of the importance of the First Stations as a navigation aid and the role of the pilot in the operation of these installations. All installations providing light or electronic signals are automated and the fire service can thus be operated safely without crew. Nevertheless, there are still 31 first-time crews along the Norwegian coast. Their operation occupies a significant share of the total funds allocated to the fire service. In the light of technical progress in the field of navigation and the accumulated maintenance needs of the fire services, the Government proposes that, in cooperation with the organisations, a gradual de-manning be carried out of all first operations. In an overall assessment of the role of the Executive Board in maritime safety, the Government concludes that the staffing of the installations is no longer a crucial element. Furthermore, the main duties of the former lighthouse operator must be redefined from the watch and supervision of the individual lighthouse for maintenance and supervision in a defined area along the coast. The teams will be able to be located in shore-based bases, or at first-time locations with good port conditions and strategic location in relation to the area to be served. It is assumed that about 50 current firemen may be offered work as maintenance personnel in that system. Thus, the workforce will increase the maintenance capacity of the Coastal Works within the Fire Service. As a consequence, the quality of the existing maritime navigation infrastructure is increased and this in turn has a positive impact on the safety of the fairways. In the assessment underpinning the proposal to manage the guys, there are today a number of complementary navigation aids. The first two must be seen in the context of these, and the Government considers it important that both time and resources be spent on the further development of modern navigation systems, such as the development of the European satellite navigation system Galileo and transponder technology, AIS. In the long term, such systems may replace some of the need for traditional navigation aids in the fairways. It is an important task to facilitate the access of users to navigation aids that meet their needs in terms of safety, performance and economy. This can be achieved either by public deployment and operation or by exploiting internationally available systems. In St.meld. No 28 are notified that the Ministry of Fisheries will make an assessment of Loran C in relation to future involvement in electronic navigation aids. In view of the limited use of Loran C as a navigational aid, the Government has announced in the revised national budget proposal that Norwegian participation in the north-west European Loran C cooperation will not continue beyond 2004. The U.S. satellite navigation system GPS is the most widely used system today. GPS is more accurate than Loran C, and in addition receivers for GPS signals are cheaper and easier to use than corresponding equipment for the use of the Loran C system. For a long time, efforts have been made to find integrated uses of Loran C and GPS with a view to making the best use of the two systems, also known as Eurofix. The capacity of the Loran C system may be used to transmit GPS correction data in order to achieve more accurate positioning, but it has still not been possible to develop practically usable receivers for these signals. In addition, both Denmark, Germany and the Netherlands have announced that they will withdraw from the Loran C cooperation. However, the Government’s decision to withdraw from the North-West European Loran C cooperation reserves the right to reconsider the decision if radical changes in the use of the Loran C system occur before 2004. I will, as requested by the majority of the Committee, come back to the matter in the 2002 budget. The Ministry of Fisheries is currently responsible for the management of a number of coastal land properties, and the main gravity of the property is related to the fireworks service. Developments in navigation aids in general and in fireworks services in particular have resulted in some fireworks no longer having navigational significance. It is a general principle in Norwegian administration that the property assets managed by a government agency should be actively managed. It also states that the establishment must aim to dispose of, or otherwise terminate, buildings for which it is no longer needed. This also applies to first-time sessions. It is therefore necessary to make an ongoing assessment of the importance of each prince for maritime safety for the purpose of disposal. For this reason, in order to reduce the operational and maintenance costs of the fireworks service, it is proposed that first-time operations be transferred to others without navigational significance. The fireworks often have a unique location. In order to safeguard the public interest, the Government recommends to continue the priority order and procedure for the disposal of first instalments drawn up in St.meld. No 33 for 1996-97, and to which the Stortingen joined. In short, as many have pointed out, state institutions continue to have priority, followed by municipal or county institutions and non-profit associations. Only as a last option will it be opened for first-time sales to private customers. The Riksantikvart developed in 1997 a national first-year protection plan, a total of 84 first-year and five-hour peace plans. The development of the protection plan was an important work. I place great emphasis on the fact that, both through state activity and local anchoring, actions to take care of coastal culture will be put in place. However, it is important to stress that, in isolation, it is not sufficient to take a decision on conservation. With limited resources, a focus must be placed on the maintenance of the Executives, which are an active part of the navigation system at sea, in order to maintain a high level of safety in the fairways. However, as part of the follow-up to the protection plan, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Fisheries will join forces to find alternative forms of management for non-active first-generation peace. In this context, the possibility of establishing a museum solution for Norwegian lighthouses will also be explored in order to document coastal history and preserve coastal culture. The government will return to the Stortinget with more detailed information on this work under the 2002 State budget. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the ongoing work to follow up the treatment of St.meld. No 13 for 2000-2001, on the organisation of the Coastal Plant. The Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Agency v/coastal director loyally follows up the Stortingen decision to transform the establishment into a management company, move the production unit to Kabelvåg and move the Coastal Directorate to Ålesund. I have full confidence in these processes, and that they take place in close cooperation with the Coast Guard employees and their organisations. I also assume that I will return to Stortinget with a briefing on the progress of the 2002 state budget. The government is concerned that the overall public resource use along the coast is optimal, and in this picture the Coastal Network is central. Through the process that the Coast Guard and the Ministry of Fisheries are now facing, I see opportunities to achieve improvements, and the proposals that the Government has made through the notification of the Principalities must be seen as a natural part of the work to make the Coast Guard a more modern and efficient coastal management and maritime transport unit. So finally, the representative Stensaker showed that modern navigation aids and electronic systems could lead to the map saying that you were on land while you were on the sea. I've even seen on the fast way that that can be right. But that's because the charts aren't good enough. Navigation systems have become so precise that when the maps are not good enough, we have a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1309	There are some issues relating to shipping, maritime and coastal safety, which the Government quite consistently says it will come back to at the next budget. I'll be allowed to say that I don't think so until I see it. I have a certain scepticism for all of these things that one shall come back to 'at the next budget'. I am a little skeptical about the device that this can get, when I see how the government deals with questions that it has been required to come back to in the previous budget, which it has not followed up. Then to the matter: fire and fireworks. I share the views expressed in Mr Vihove's statement. There is no doubt that with modern navigation aids is a less dependent on presence in the form of crewing on the guys than before. But there is no doubt either that there is an uncertainty along the coast. When the government says that there is no significant impairment in the safety of manning the guys, it is the small piece that is left, the small piece that concerns those who do not have electronic navigation equipment on board – small fishing boats and small boats that travel along the coast. And then it's also the uncertainty that lies there: what happens if you lose the power on board? It happens, too, especially in bad weather. It is with electronics that it can send signals and receive signals, as far as the systems work, but it does not act when something goes wrong. Manning at the guys – the guys that are left – means that there are people there who can take an independent action based on a current situation. There are a lot of first-timers who are down-staffed, and I'm going to think that it's been a priority in relation to which guy still has a crew: that these are first-times where you've needed presence more than anyone else, the need for action in relation to situations that could arise under changing weather conditions. The coastal party has no sense at all for the last manned guys to be depopulated now. So how to manage our guy. This is a common property of great cultural and historical value that we have to take care of for the public. They must not be sold to private persons, it must be clear. I am very pleased with the clear statement from the Right Representative, Oddvard Nilsen, that the Right would not in any way use lighthouses as a source of income in terms of profit on sale. I'm very happy about that, and I hope that a total big deal can say that the guys are a joint ownership that needs to be managed in a way that makes them accessible to everyone. And then to the museum section. I was very pleased when I got the light museums into the ABM message at the treatment in the autumn – very satisfied. There is also a clear message to the Ministry about making money available so that they can take care of their own business. When the appropriations for both maintenance and management along our coast are too small, the Council of State must do a job within its own government. We simply have to have more money to do both the proper management of the coast and the maintenance of the history of our lighthouse. Here the ministry has a clear responsibility, and here the whole Stortinget has a clear responsibility to ensure that sufficient funds are made available to meet the objectives we are drawing up. Because there has never been any cracking opinion, really, about the objectives: safe coastal management, and that one should take care of coastal culture. It is when funds are to be made available to meet these objectives, things begin to fall apart. I just want to inform you that the Coastal Party is going to oppose the downgrading of the first few. The coastal party will be in favour of increased allocations for coastal safety and conservation of coastal culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1323	Let me first refer to it as the first speaker, sir. Sahl, said there's a lot of people calling up the first few to figure out what kind of weather it is. It may be, but I have 40 years of experience using the area between Varanger and Nordkapp – to put it simply – and at least I haven't called a granddaughter to find out. There's a lot of other ways to figure out. And a sea area like the East Sea is probably the most rugged area you have along the coast, at least there are many who claim it. Not so said that there is no first-time job, but that reason was perhaps a little thin from my side. Times change, even for the seafarers. In the right old days, seafarers were dependent on the stars to navigate and arrive at their destination. Today it's become that you don't have to have much knowledge of navigation to travel at sea. It is enough that you can operate the electronic equipment including electronic mapping. The modern equipment on board brings the vessel to its destination. But this doesn't mean we can cut out the crew on board. Of course, a ship must have people on the bridge to keep track of the fact that everything is going right, that the equipment is working, and also follow in all other traffic. What I learned at the Coastal Shipping School in 1967 has no practical significance anymore today. We don't need a sextant or radar display to get an exact position. All we need, we get on a screen, which also tells us when we're going to be at the destination, based on the speed of the ship. Therefore, the lights do not have the same meaning as before, as it was easier to follow the ladder when it was dark than on light day because of the lights, especially if you were not known along the ladder. It is positive that the Government is following developments in making the Norwegian coast as safe as possible to operate. Modern navigation equipment has also become cheaper and cheaper gradually. I myself have been with and navigated for GPS and found the floating bridge in spite of frost smoke and 10 metres of visibility, so the equipment works. If it is used correctly, and that is not what the Minister for Fisheries says, the maps are crazy – because it may also be that there may be shortcomings in this area – one finds out. Nevertheless, accidents occur, and many of the accidents that occur along the coast are caused by human failure, by e.g.: the autopilot has been on while the rudder guard has been asleep or unattended. In such cases, there is no navigation equipment that can prevent this from happening. But there is a ‘rober guard’ invented to keep the rudder guard awake, and there is a question of whether this ‘rober guard’ should become mandatory in vessels of a certain size. I am not so sure whether it has entered into force – it has been said that it would be mandatory. Then most of the problems will be gone. I've noticed that it's set up to take care of most guys along the coast, primarily for use by the public. When the lights were set up, the location was chosen to meet a need. Today, most locations are pure natural pearls and are therefore very attractive to the public. Therefore, it is gratifying to see that sales to private people are the lowest priority, and that it is the public that will benefit from this. The government has provided a good basis for improving the fairways along the coast. Let me finish what you do on the sea – and wish well is carried on in this important work for Coast Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1342	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1345	His right view of the main issues in this matter has appeared clearly earlier in the debate, so I shouldn't go into it that much. But it's a small, but important part that I want to make a few comments on, that's what they said about a lighthouse as a network solution. Such a solution will take care of important aspects of Norwegian history and coastal culture, and the joy is that the Committee now decides: 1. that this should be a responsibilities2. that both the ministry and the magnification are in line with the proposed network solution3. that the Government shall inform about the further progress of the State budget of the autumn; In addition, I would like to add that this matter is urgent. We have to get on with this work before important parts of this coastal culture and those who know this culture are gone. I hope that the Stortinget has given a clear enough signal to the Ministry that we will have a positive follow-up to this matter in the 2002 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1367	In the case of the phasing out of Loran C, it has, among other things, the claim that Loran C is no longer used. But that's today's use and system we're talking about. The old and new Loran C relating to Eurofix and Galileo cannot be compared. Prior to the development of reception equipment for the new system, it cannot be expected that the equipment and system will be put into service. Therefore, the development of the new equipment must be awaited before being said no, we do not want this. It is therefore worrying that the Workers' Party will not go in to develop a system that will provide greater accuracy and safety than today's GPS. I would also like to remind you that with the pace of development laid down by the Labour Party and the Council of State in their budgets for electronic navigational charts and the marking of coastlines, it will be a long time before you can rely on the navigation systems you have. With regard to the use of manned guys, there are many examples of alternative use. I know about nine guys who are open for overnight stays in Middle Norway. It's the dice, Buholmråsa, Grinna, Kjeungen, Asenvågøy, Vingleia, Haugjegla, Halten and Agdenes, just to name a few. These are run by well-being and private in a very good way, and it ensures the necessary maintenance of these guys at the same time. Then you actually hit two flies in one taste: the guys are in use, and the state saves money.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1376	Let me first say that I think it is a joyous sign of this debate that there is a fairly large consensus on the instruments that you want to implement in connection with the communication that we are now dealing with. But there's a little bit different emphasis on the importance of having staffing by some guys, and there's some disagreement about the treatment of Loran C. Let me just briefly comment on a couple of statements that have come, and then I have a question for the Council of State. This applies first to the representative Sigrun Eng who characterized us – it's okay now – as nostalgics, but I think it's a little sad that all those who are concerned about just the eyes that look along the coast should be characterised as nostalgic. It's not just nostalgia to take care of some eyes that still see, even though the technology is very much about to take over. So to the representative Johansen who thought it was strange that I paid so much attention to it that the guys were called. It is possible that the representative Johansen has not called, but when dealing with this matter, I have had contact with some of the people who work at the guys as rapporteur. They say that calling is one of the most important things they do. Especially the small boat people are concerned about what the weather is like. Can we take it out? Also some ferries over difficult distances call the guys and get controlled what the situation is, before they leave. So finally, a question to the Council of State about what has now happened in connection with Loran C. Norway is in the lead, we agree, in the case of Loran C. With the strip of the coast that we have, it should be so much lacking that we should not be concerned about this. Denmark's signing up is not very strange. But when Norway in the last meeting of the NELS Committee announces itself, and we are in the lead, what are the consequences for the others who are involved? When did Germany and the Netherlands formally resign? Was it at the last meeting of the NELS Committee? What is the significance for the production of the material to be used for the new Loran C, when it is already announced that this will be phased out? Does it not really mean that we have put it down now?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1387	Of course, it is true that Norway was the leader in the development of this system. You were even in the lead to get this system to communicate with the system that was on the Russian side, the so-called Chaika system. Unfortunately — or fortunately — new systems, which are cheaper and more efficient, have entered the market and made the situation better for all users, have made it safer for all users. So you could have thought that you'd technically have to solve a connection between a new European satellite system and the Loran C system. However, the decision to be made by the EU will not come. I'm not familiar with anything that indicates that this is something that is actually going to happen. For example, in the case of the GPS system, simpler transmitters have been selected to correct positions. Today, you have a very satisfactory accuracy in the system you have. The point is that as long as no one decides that this system should be used for anything other than ground-based navigation, this will not be used. There will also be no development of receiver equipment for this as long as there are other alternatives that will be more precise and will be cheaper. I think that's a reality that we have to relate to. Of course, I cannot explain the reasons why other nations have to sign out. I assume they're doing this on an independent basis, and it's really hard to imagine that it's so important for Germany, for example. having this available for navigation in our waters, that it could have a decisive impact on the choice we have made. But formally, it's true that this has been announced at the last meeting of the Loran C organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1398	I do not subtract the information Sahl has received from the officers, directly in doubt. The weather at the moment is one thing to get information about, but for those who are seafaring, has usually been ahead of all, most importantly, and what one is most interested in. When you go to the sea, it's been coming up that tells you how to behave, whether it's worth doing what to do, or not. Then it's the Verwarslinga in Tromsø that you call, and that at least the fishermen use very often. It also provides information on, among other things. wave height. It's been forward that matters, and at least that information can't be given by the officers. They tell what they themselves observe there and then.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1403	I would like to receive a clear response from the Council of State in connection with an information in the summary from the rapporteur. You could get an idea of what the rapporteur said, that when small boats and ferries called the guys, they got advice on whether they could drive or not. I'm guessing that doesn't happen. It may not be that the lighthouse operator advises whether or not to cancel. It may have a claim on its part in the next round. I expect that what you do is give a description of what weather is there, and don't give advice whether you can drive or not. I would like to ask the Council of State to answer that affirmatively.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1410	First of all, I want to clarify what the representative Oddvard Nilsen now brought up. I am also very concerned that the fireman should not give advice, but that they should tell what kind of weather it is. Then the one who's going to go out, even deciding if he's going out or not. But it's incredibly important to know what kind of be it is. Then I use the opportunity very briefly to say that I perceive the Council of State's answer to my question that is quite clear in the direction that the Government has dropped Loran C before we get to debate it in the Committee and in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1417	To my knowledge, the lighthouse attendant does not advise whether or not to sail. Man, assuming, give information about the situation there and then. The decision as to whether or not to sail is the responsibility of the person responsible for navigation on board the ship. To the representative Sahl: We take from the government of course seriously the fact that the Storting wants to get back to this matter, and of course no decisions are final until that discussion is concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1425	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3527]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1433	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1440	In the course of the debate, 11 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Ansgar Gabrielsen, on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advances and the representative of Mr Terje Knudsen, 4, by Leif Helge Kongshaug on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and Left Proposal No. 5, by Leif Helge Kongshaug on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 6 and 7, by Morten Lund, on behalf of the Centre Party, proposals Nos. 8-10, by Rolf Requam, on behalf of the Socialist Left-wing Party, proposal No. 11, from Randi Karlstrøm on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1464	Just a brief explanation of vote. We shall vote in favour of the motions for resolutions. 4, 5, 6 and 7 plus our own suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1471	In addition to being co-sponsors, the Christian People's Party shall vote in favour of proposal No. 8 and 9 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 is well open, according to what they think they needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1476	Then we are ready for voting, and we start with the proposals No. 8 and 9, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to strengthening SND’s work on skills development in small and medium-sized enterprises and to developing SND’s role as an interlocutor for enterprises.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to develop the role of SND as an actor in strengthening and developing businesses in areas where it is possible to develop clusters of nutrients. SND shall be a driver for the development of activities in areas where cluster development is facilitated.’;» Here the Christian People's Party has announced support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1499	Proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government, in the context of the 2002 budget, to increase the items for grants and risk loans through the SND in accordance with the framework for which the SND has notified the need.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1511	Proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from the Center Party, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of SND’s head office outside the Oslo area.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The regional authorities shall be appointed by the respective county council following the recommendations of the St.melding bodies. No 36 [[2000-2001]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1532	Proposal No. 11, from the Christian People's Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider a plan for further decentralisation of SND’s head office in which it assesses the relocation of purely administrative tasks and also professional sections to individual counties that may act as the SND’s professional hub.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1546	Proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The county nominates the members of the regional governments with political ties.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1560	Proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, and the Left, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to launch a programme under the auspices of the SND for information on the country’s purchases of goods and services and plans for the relocation of state jobs.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1574	Proposals Nos. 1, 2 and 3, from the Right, the Party of Advancement and the representative of Terje Knudsen, are addressed to voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision requires the Government to liquidate the country’s involvement in SND Invest AS.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to examine the possibility of putting the management of SND’s loan and guarantee schemes into tender.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to liquidate the SND’s low-risk loan scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1607	Here the Workers' Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1637	During the debate, Mr Gabrielsen presented a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the use of the funds allocated to the establishment of State/private investment companies to strengthen the START Fund and the regional seed funds.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-08.ana.ud875e1720	There is no record.
