ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e22	Before we start the debate, the President will briefly outline the arrangements for it: The debate will have a restriction on participation. It is only the Prime Minister and the parliamentary leaders who can participate. This also applies to the lines. The Prime Minister's statement may last up to 15 minutes, while the speeches by the parliamentary leaders are limited to 5 minutes. In addition, the Prime Minister receives up to 3 minutes for a final comment. The speeches and the speeches shall be held by the ordinary public. Repeats and repeats are taken from the speaker’s chairs down the hall. The replicants use the pulpit at the diplomat's lodge, while the reply slips from the pulpit at the press booth. The participants, other than the Prime Minister, have initially been assigned a certain number of lines for which they decide their own use. But they can't use more than half of these for the same speech. The number of lines and responses is limited to 1 minute. It will not be possible to make proposals during this debate. Since the outline is not covered by the rules of debate in Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure, the President will ask for the approval of the Stortingen. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e37	Two years ago, Danish journalist Carsten Jensen gave a lecture in Oslo entitled «Northmen before and after the oil boom». Carsten Jensen believes that the best literary picture in Norway in the postwar period has been the character studies of Morten Skogmus and Klatremus in Thorbjørn Egner's story of the animals in the Hackebakke Forest. But, says Jensen, this story has now been replaced in Jan Kjærstad's books about the TV personality Jonas Wergeland. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Jan Kjærstad on the Nordic Council Literature Prize for the «Discoverer», the last of the books in the trilogy. Kjærstad will receive the prize at the Nordic Council meeting here in Oslo in March. It's a well-deserved prize for a great writership, which now also has a solid anchoring party in the Nordic cultural community. In his talk of Morten Skogmus and Klatremus, Carsten Jensen points out an internal conflict in Norway: a Protestant work moral set against the temptations of sin. At the same time, the two figures describe the Northman before and after the oil tree. Morten Skogmus is busy, thrifty and careful with his plans for the future. Climbing mice, on the other hand, have a free ticket to the good life that he is happy, happy and carefree. The real Northman shakes between the two. With the oil revenues he is tempted to live as a bat and a vase in nuts, at least for a while, but believe as he is to what Morten Skogmus stands for, he believes that the leap from one to the other will well be great. According to Carsten Jensen, the Nordmann thus becomes hesitant – dubious and double-minded. Our challenge is therefore to cope with a demanding balance: we must preserve Morten's work and sense of duty, but we cannot cope without the joy of life, optimism and ingenuity of Climbermus. There is a lot of reason for optimism in our country. But we must not believe that progress and well-being come of itself. It's just the ability to create and the ability to share that gives us safe welfare and gives our lives meaning, both as individuals and as communities. It's almost a year since the Workers' Party took over government responsibility. During this year, we have taken new, important steps to expand the welfare society and the safe Norwegian economy. Appropriations for health have increased significantly. The waiting lists have been shortened. Everyone in these days is offered a permanent doctor. We are upgrading cancer care and psychiatry, and we are facing the greatest reorganisation of the Norwegian hospital system of the time. We're betting on knowledge for everyone. Teachers have been paid better, school day has been better organized, continuing education has become a legal right, and we are facing the reform of higher education in times. There will be more quality and more knowledge. Our universities and colleges are going to be spearheads into the new knowledge society. The income of municipalities has increased more than in many years, and municipalities have gained greater freedom and less state detail management. Local democracy and well-being are further developed. At the same time, we are carrying out the upgrading of care for the elderly – a reform that the government of Jagland launched four years ago, and that my government is taking to port. We want everyone to have access to a good dwelling, and we repatriate the social housing policy and provide more money for housing. We've stepped up the fight against crime. We want to prevent, we want more police and quick response from society. Reconciliation queues are to be brought down and prisons are to be expanded. We have proposed the time reform of the Norwegian police and judicial system, unless bureaucracy and more police force. People will notice that we're betting more on a safer everyday life. We've dealt with difficult issues; many of them were lying and driving. We have clarified the main lines of Norwegian banking structure. We have put forward proposals for a forward-looking management of state ownership of oil and gas activities. And we've given our great knowledge company Telenor new owners, new capital and new power. We have taken responsibility for the management of our nature and our environment. We have protected large areas, we have secured the Salt Mountain against hydroelectric expansion, and we have said what had to be said: the time for the large hydroelectric expansions is over. The appropriations for research into environmentally friendly technology have increased, and we have taken responsibility for the sustainable management of our predatory populations. On Friday, we are tabling proposals for a historic renewal of the defence. It will give us a stronger defence and give the country greater security. We're going to spend more on the defense, but we're going to spend the money better. This is a necessary reform that is coming late, but it is coming well. We're now doing what most of our allies in NATO have already done. And NATO's Secretary-General was quite clear during his visit to Norway two weeks ago: the reform takes good care of Norwegian security and the need for alliance. In an election year, the voters shall have clear options to choose from. That's what they'll get this year. The Labour Party calls for a welfare society that gives everyone basic security and equal rights to kindergarten, school, health care and care for the elderly. People expect a lot of these services. That's why we need to develop and renew them so that they meet the needs of people in everyday life. From the right-hand side, the message is a strong reduction of services we pay for together. This is partly directly stated, e.g. the Progress Party will implement major cuts in the arrangements that allow for living in all parts of the country, cut the agricultural support to the leg, cut the nursery allowance and a number of other important services. But the message is equally clear in what is not clearly said. The Right Party and the Advance Party say they want more to go to school, more to research, more to defense and more to roads. The wishes amount to billions. At the same time, we hear the cry for strong tax relief. The newspaper summarised this last week by pointing out that the Right Party and the Advance Party ‘finance their tax reliefs by giving less to the municipalities and less to the sick’. It's an honest choice. But it is a warning of a clear course conversion, and it will not be included in the Workers' Party. In their budget proposals, the two parties were strongly involved in the disease pay system. An adult person who had been sick for one year would have lost about NOK 50000 with the arrangement of the Advance Party and nearly NOK 30000 with the Right. I am glad that this recipe was rejected in cash by a clear majority on Stortinget. Long - term illness and miscarriage do not have strong speakers. They do not have debaters going to the barricades for lower taxes. But they have families and themselves to take care of. And it also shares responsibility for helping them with it. That is why the Labour Party's position is clear: we will not put forward proposals that undermine the rights of workers in the sick pay system. What we need are measures that promote health and prevent illness in the workplace. We have to make the threshold into the labour market lower and the threshold out of the labour market higher. The Progress Party and the Right will finance tax relief by cutting off the world's richest country to the poorest. I am glad that the Labour Party and the bulk of the population say no to this as well. In the Government Declaration, the Government said that the public sector should be strengthened, therefore it must also be renewed. The number of medical staff has increased by 50 pst. The last ten years, and we are now the country that has the most doctors per. is a European citizen. Nevertheless, we experience lack of body. Norway is at the top of the world in terms of per capita use of money. Students, and we have more teachers per year. students other than any other Western country. Nevertheless, we are not satisfied with our school. We spend more money in Norwegian hospitals than ever before. But at the same time, top modern equipment is unused, operating rooms are empty in the middle of the day, and hospital doctors are treating fewer patients now than before. There are few areas where more money has been allocated to the last few years than to the police. Nevertheless, we experience a lack of police and a lack of commitment to the safety of individuals. Therefore, we can promise that we will ensure that taxpayers receive more services again for the tax they pay. What we save through better organisation of hospitals should not lead to reduced hospital budgets. It should provide better hospitals, shorter queues and more treatment. What we save by reducing the number of academic years by extending the length of the academic year is not to be taken out of the budgets of universities and higher education institutions. It shall be used for better education, more research and stronger universities. What we save by halving the number of police districts is not going to be used to reduce the police budgets. It's going to give more policemen and more security. Nor are we going to use what we're saving to convert the defense to cut the defence budget. It should give us a stronger and better defense. People will notice that these reforms produce results in their everyday lives, that there will be more and better services. Since 1970, we've become three times as rich as a nation. But have we become three times so happy, and are we living rich lives in that rich country? More clearly than ever before, we see that conditions for good life are not just linked to material prosperity. Life must be filled with content, meaning and human concern and warmth. We want a society of diversity, tolerance and equivalency. But we must recognize that in these areas the state of the kingdom is not as good as we want. The killing of Holmlia was not an isolated blur. It was a reminder that it is possible to go wild in our society, that it is possible to build prejudices, rage and violence romance in the blind zones of society. Last Friday I met people who have engaged in the work against crime and racism in the community. They reported experiences from local work, on the problems, but also on many successful interventions. Three main messages came from the meeting. Firstly, we must prevent recruitment into gangs and violence environments. Or as a policeman from Manglerud said, first we have to build a wall against Nynazism, then we have to knock holes in the wall and pick up people, one by one. Secondly, racism must be combated everywhere. It's about the North's attitude towards immigrants. However, the attitudes of immigrants towards the Nordics — and the attitudes of immigrants towards each other. Because neither is everything in Norway. Thirdly, the school may be the main meeting place for integration and increased understanding. The hours after school leaves early in the afternoon are critical. We need to consider what we can do to ensure good offers for older children and young people when the school day ends early in the afternoon. The school leisure system is an important offer. We see how hard it is when the municipalities turn up the prices, as we do, among other things. in Oslo, with dramatic increases in the price of the school leisure system. Too many children, especially those a little older, are unsolicited. They could need a hot meal, help with homework and offers of leisure activities with adults in school area. The school is not able to give this today. We have to enable it in the future. We need a policy for good and safe growth. We will work to ensure full child care coverage by 2003, and we will reduce parental pay. Childcare facilities for all are the best measures to prevent those with the most difficulty from falling into arrears already in the start-up phase. The state of the Kingdom is good in Norway. But we can't borrow back for that reason. We must not allow the state of the kingdom to become the state of the kingdom. In the autumn, we used a majority of the Stortning for increased investment in common well-being and fairer distribution. The message was clear: this is not the time to cut down on welfare and on Community schemes. We will work to ensure that this majority provides the basis for the policy course even after the major elections to the autumn. This will enable us to ensure that developments in Norway are characterised by fundamental values such as diversity, tolerance, solidarity and equivalency.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e133	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e136	The Prime Minister said just now, ‘In the autumn, we used a majority of the Stortningen for increased investment’, etc. in different fields. There is a conceptual use that makes it necessary to clarify that the bulk of the population is not a tool that the government can only use. It bears witness to an understanding of Storting's own integrity that surprises. The government shall follow the will of the majority of the population and not the opposite. And that has not least been the experience of this government. In the corresponding debate last year, Stoltenberg said that the central government was ‘uniquely weak’. Now his own government has so far had one great test of strength, the state budget last fall, and then the government had to accept changes on a total record of NOK 22 billion. Stoltenberg's characteristic returns like a powerful boomerang. The most disappointing and surprising thing about the budget was the sharp deterioration in the conditions of Norwegian business – it was the most anti-business budget in decades. There were no signs in today's talk of a different and better business policy. Was the government's draft budget the last harvest of the Stoltenberg government's industrial policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e145	First, the question of ‘we’. I included Kjell Magne Bondevik in the «we», because I am an inclusive person and am therefore happy that the Centre and the Workers' Party came together on a budget where we have the current focus on common welfare systems, local economy, health, care for the elderly and many other important welfare schemes. The outstanding budgetary agreement in the autumn was precisely that it was possible to mobilise a majority of the major investment within a demanding economic framework, among others. because the centre was also involved in looking at the revenue side of the budget, tightening something into the private sector to clear up room for increased investment in our common welfare systems. That was the political choice. That the centre thought it was much better to increase some taxes on business, for example. write-downs and some kinds of taxes, while they were against the taxes we proposed, well, it wasn't as fundamental a question for us. We were pleased that you were in our grip, both on the expenditure side and on the income side.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e152	It was difficult to get an answer to the question. Is this an expression of the industrial policy that Prime Minister Stoltenberg wants to face – the most anti-business budget in many years? Now I understand that he wants to include more. The Prime Minister delivered a show-off list that contained a number of issues in which previous governments or the Stortinget have actually taken the initiative, not the government of Stoltenberg. Another issue is the worryingly high prices of the school leisure system, especially in the inner east of Oslo. Then it turns out that two of the three parts of the city in question are headed by the Workers' Party. A working group of these and the Government, represented by the Ministry of Local Affairs, have proposed appropriations leading to high prices. In fact, the non-socialist city council has today tried what came from the working party team and proposed 9 million. extra NOK in order to reduce costs per year. children with an average of NOK 7 000. Does this not imply a slightly greater humility in the distribution of responsibilities and who is concerned with well-being or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e161	Only when it comes to business policy. I expect that Kjell Magne Bondevik will also be in charge of the budgetary agreement that we agreed on last autumn, including the policy towards Norwegian companies. So there it is, among other things. focus on research and development, and not least the use of money is responsible, which contributes to the highest priority for Norwegian enterprises, namely to keep costs, price increases and interest rates under control. In the case of the school leisure scheme in Oslo, I think it is difficult for the bourgeois majority – including the Christian People's Party now – in Oslo City Council to waive responsibility for the budgets given to the urban areas, which is the reason for the additions in the self-payment of the school leisure scheme. Anyone who knows the governance of Oslo knows that the city councils have little to say about the actual budgetary situation. It's the city council that decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e168	As for the last, Stoltenberg now speaks against the actual situation, and I ask him to update on it. It is the non-socialist city council that has had to review, among other things. The Workers' Party's proposal for appropriations, which led to high prices of the school leisure scheme. I am in charge of the budgetary agreement we agreed on last autumn. But we couldn't stand for the anti-business proposal Stoltenberg came to the fore. That's the difference. So to another thing. In more and more things we now see cracking signals from the Government. The Horn and Giske Councils are in favour of banning Nazi organisations, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice. The Minister for the Environment will regulate the size of cabins, the Government will obviously not. Today, the so-called Patent Directive is being dealt with by the European Court of Justice, which the Netherlands has brought. Norway has supported it, but the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said that if the Netherlands does not win, we will accept the directive. This has weakened the case and the position of Norway. Has the Government really already made up its mind that it will passively follow the outcome of the European Court of Justice? Doesn't the government have its own opinion in this matter of principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e179	First of all, to the specific issues. The Minister for the Environment himself has made it very clear that it is not appropriate to regulate the size of single cabins in Norway. The Minister for the Environment has been concerned about ensuring a cabin construction that is not a problem in relation to public access to natural areas and does not harm Norwegian mountain nature. However, regulating the size of single cabins has made it quite clear that the Minister for the Environment has not done so. Of course, I fully agree with her. As regards the prohibition of Nazi organisations, it is true that there is a question now under consideration, including: by the fact that experts have traveled to some of our neighbouring countries to obtain assessments there of the extent to which the law can be used, either against Nazi organisations as such or in relation to, for example, the law. prohibit the use of Nazi symbols. We will consider that, and then we will draw conclusions and present them to the Storting. As far as the Patent Directive is concerned, it is clear that if the Court of Justice finds that there is a conflict with the Convention on Biological Diversity, it is not a question of introducing the Directive – and that is, of course, the whole Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e188	The Prime Minister did not even talk about the price and cost growth this evening, rather the interest rate trend in Norway. I understand that, because while other countries are now lowering interest rates, we still have a price and cost problem. However, unlike other countries, we have a huge surplus in the state budget. I would like to ask again whether the government does not use the advice it has obtained from some economists, now that it has gradually come to the conclusion that it can do something to bring down the price rise, among other things. by reducing part of the high Norwegian fees. The government and the centre have just provided for a high price rise, a high inflation, and thus a high level of interest rates, by keeping a very high level of charges and even increasing the rate of value added. Why does the government not want the Norwegian people – most people – now also to benefit from the good economy of the state in terms of a reduction in special taxes, but also of taxes, so that people get the most out of the income they now have?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e194	Hagen refers to the economists who have advised the Government, and they have slightly different opinions and slightly different positions on different questions, but they are in agreement with one thing, and that is that if we do as the Progress Party suggests, namely to open the locks and pump many new billions into the Norwegian economy, the result will be a dramatic price increase and a dramatic decline in Norwegian businesses, increasing unemployment and major migration problems. Some say that we can take it – building up the industry – but they all agree that if we spend more money in the scope proposed by the Progress Party, there will be a dramatic decline in Norwegian companies and Norwegian industry. We do not recommend that, and that is why we disagree with the Advancement Party. It is also strange to hear how concerned the Progress Party is about the financial situation of individuals, in order to propose at the next moment that ordinary Norwegian employees who are exposed to a traffic accident, cancer or other long-term illness should receive NOK 50000 or more in a reduced payment during the sick pay period. It's dramatic and should worry Carl I. Hagen much more than the VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e201	Let me first ask the Prime Minister who in the Government we are now to listen to. Is it the government's policy to do something about the sickness pay scheme, as suggested by some ministries? And do you want to follow up on something from the Sandman Committee? Or is it still so that no changes are to be made? In addition, the Prime Minister makes mistakes in talking about the effects of tax relief, or in particular tax relief. The central statistical agency's assessment of the budget of the Progress Party is that it would lead to a reduction in the prices of 2 p.m., while the government's own policy together with the centre resulted in a price increase of 3 p.m., i.e. a difference of five percentage points, which is just tearing into bits some of the prime minister's explanations regarding the community economy and other things. But the prime minister was also inside the hospitals. Will the government soon change input-based funding, remove the encryption, so that we do not have empty daytime operating rooms and do not have the capacity of Norwegian hospitals? And will he also join in gradually giving up the debt of the hospitals, so there's no money that's why we don't get to treat more patients at the hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e210	Only when it comes to the Sandman Committee setting. Many proposals have been made – I think they are more than 20 specific proposals – among others. proposals for increased access to social security for the treatment of sick patients, for better rehabilitation and for better follow-up and for more measures to get disabled and sick people back to work. Now the government is going through all these proposals. However, with regard to the proposal for cuts in the sick pay system and the rights of workers, the National Labour Party – and I have explained this earlier – has said that we are not in favour of it, and that is, of course, also governing the government's handling of that matter. At the same time, we have invited the social partners to a dialogue on the follow-up to the many different proposals of the Sandman Committee and are now in dialogue with the parties about it, and will, of course, decide on the outcome of that dialogue when it is available. Moreover, I note that the representative Hagen does not comment at all that all the thousands of people who are registered for long-term disease in Norway because of traffic damage, cancer and other things, will receive many tens of thousands of reduced payments with the Progress Party's proposal for 20 pst. cut over the entire sick pay period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e217	That's because I'm trying to deal with the normal rules of the game for lines, that's that it's the replicator who asks the questions, and the one who's made a post, who's trying to answer. I have noticed that the Prime Minister, instead of answering questions, is being attacked in a false way against the party and the representative who allows himself to ask a question. We can only take note that it is a simple tactic when you cannot answer the questions asked. But I want to try one more time: The Norwegian National Association has repeatedly called for a fund-basement of pension schemes, in particular supplementary pension schemes, which the Progress Party has tried to propose a number of times. How does the Government approach this idea, and can we expect that the Government will soon come to the Stortinge with proposals for the reorganisation of popular security? Or is it so that it should be put in the drawer until the election is over by appointing even new samples?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e224	In any case, the Norwegian State is responsible for the payment of the basic social security benefits and the supplementary pensions of the people's pension. Either the country organises it as a separate pension fund, an oil fund or by other means, it is the country with its income and its saving that pays for current and future pension expenditure. There will be no significant difference if we organise the fund as a pension fund, an oil fund or another type of fund. The crucial thing is that the Workers' Party has a credible plan to save sufficient funds, so that we can secure pensions. The economic policy of the Progress Party means that we cannot secure future pensions, and that is a threat to all those who are dependent on both basic and supplementary pensions in popular security.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e229	There was a lot of polemics in the Prime Minister's posts that came to the fore for what he wanted to do. One of the areas that were staggeringly absent in the Prime Minister’s presentation was the challenges facing Norwegian school, education and research. If Norway is going to be at the top of the world, we also have to be at the top of school and education, but that's not the way. The Workers' Party created the content of the Reform 97 school. We have now received clear research findings that show that kids of the same age are reading worse now than they did before Reform 97, despite having one year more in school. This is dramatic for kids who are going to start their lives. Does the Prime Minister recognise and take responsibility for the creation of losers by the Labour Party School in Norway? And what will he do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e238	We want a better school. That's why we want to do a lot of small and big things to make Norwegian school even better for everyone. In the previous election campaign, in 1999, the main topic of the debate was that we had to increase the salaries of teachers in order to ensure the recruitment of the teaching profession, in order to ensure that the profession that is the key to child education was adequately valued. We got through income policy cooperation last year for a pay gap for teachers and, in addition, an agreement on better organisation of the school day, so that teachers can spend more time on the most important thing, teaching the students. It is an important reform for a better school, better Norwegian education and better education for students. It's a start – one action. Then there will be more, including on both the issue of better education for individual students, better organisation of school day and better training of teachers. Then I'm sure we're going to get an even better school.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e245	It is unfortunately established that none of these were of the things the Prime Minister prioritised in his introduction, and he did not deal with the responsibility of the Workers' Party for the content of the school that was created. I must insist that here the results are alarmingly poor, and there is a completely different offensive attitude from the Prime Minister's than he is now showing. Now it was clear from the Prime Minister's statement that the Workers' Party is a high-tax party, but they do not want to tell us before the election what kind of tax reforms they now want to carry out. The right has demanded that the Labour Party put the cards on the table before the election, so that people can choose. The working party says they want to put them on the table after the election. Does this mean that the Prime Minister wants to hide all the benefits of the budgetary procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e252	First of all, I don't think the representative Petersen listened. Actually, I had to edit a little bit because my manuscript was a little far from the allocated speaking time, but at least I read it about school, the focus on teacher pay, on improving the quality of school and the great educational reforms we are now notifying in higher education. So if the representative Petersen heard about it, he would have heard that I just said it. In the case of taxes, the situation is that the Workers' Party, through the 1990s, has ensured that ordinary employees pay less taxes on ordinary income. The overtime tax, which was up to 70 pst, has been brought down to 35 pst. for all with low revenues and up to a maximum of 50 pst. for those who have something above the average of normal employee income. There is a sharp reduction in taxes on ordinary employee income, and at the latest in the last two budgets we reduced the tax on them with the lowest income. So ordinary employees have received and will receive a lower tax with the Workers' Party. Right-wing regimes are lower taxes for those who have the most, and cut down on welfare schemes for those who have the least. It's unsocial, and we're against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e259	This is of the approximates that the Prime Minister very well knows is not right. Among other things, the Right has responded clearly to the strong increases in housing taxes and electricity taxes — things that affect ordinary people completely independently of income. Our goal is for people to be able to live on their own income, and therefore we want to raise the bottom. The Prime Minister's points in this area are simply not correct. But he also avoided my point: Why does he not want to present his tax policy before the elections? Well, of course, it's because every time the Workers' Party gives something in one area, they take it back in other areas, and it doesn't want the Workers' Party to show up. That is the reality of everything. But to stick to the conditions of ordinary people, in which I fully agree with the Prime Minister, is important: what will he now do with the strong increases in e.g. the electricity charges, where 50-70 pst. of what you pay in electricity, now goes to the public? It's become a new dairy cow. Or what will he do with the massive increase in the housing tax people have been exposed to? Will he give people relief in those areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e266	It wasn't anything from me – I can be very precise. When e.g. The right-hand side suggests 10 pst. For long-term sick pay, it means that the average employee, at NOK 300000 in income, receives NOK 30 000 less in income if long-term sick pay is paid. It's a relatively simple calculation and not an approximate statement. The last time that the Right was in government, employees' taxes – overtime taxes – were almost 70 pst. The working party has brought it down to less than 50 pst. Then it is not the Workers' Party that is the tax-increase party – it was the Right who stood for it. Every year Right set with majority government under Willoch, housing taxes were increased – every year. Then it's almost strange to hear the moral aggravation from the Right of Housing Tax, when they increased that tax every single year of their own government in the 1980s. Then I think you should have a slightly different tone compared to tax, when we have reduced the tax on ordinary employees, and the right increased it for everyone with normal housing when the Right sat in the government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e272	I want to move on to an area that the Prime Minister at all did not touch on in his presentation, an area that I believe the Prime Minister and I can agree will be absolutely crucial to the future state of the kingdom, namely Norway's relationship with the European Union. When I bring it up, it is especially in the light of the Prime Minister's visit to Brussels yesterday. The Prime Minister has agreed to inform and school the Norwegian people about Europe, and has said, among other things. in the Year to the NHO that those who want an EU debate will not find the Workers' Party on that arena. On the other hand, the Minister of Foreign Affairs confirmed, most recently in a debate with Johan J. Jakobsen in News of the Day on 10 January, that it is highly probable and timely that a new EU application could be promoted during the next enlargement period. Can we now clarify what is the Government's policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e277	What I made clear at the NHO Annual Conference, which is fully in line with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said, and as the National Assembly of the Workers' Party has said, is the following: These are two very simple points of view. One is to say that it is totally unthinkable that there will be an EU debate for the next four years. The second thing is to say, anyway, we're going to go in to apply for membership in the next big period. I believe that both of these positions are a little too simple and do not take on board the fact that we have not been able to see the pace and force of changes in European policy in the past. So it is that both the Foreign Minister and I have the assessment that it is unlikely that it will be. In any case, it is the Norwegian people, through a referendum, who are going to decide on the issue of Norwegian membership, that is not through a big choice we decide that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e284	I then perceive that the Prime Minister confirms that it may be appropriate to promote an EU application in the next period. However, I would like to ask another matter related to the EU, and that is: Why does the Government want so little to exploit the space of action that we consider to be all per. as a non-EU member, currently has some key issues for Norway? As regards the approach to the Patent Directive – Kjell Magne Bondevik has asked earlier in the debate about the government’s handling of it. This applies not least to food safety, in relation to the possibilities that we have to say no to imports of animals from countries that have detected the infection of bovine animals. This applies to the Food Make-up Directive, which we know could produce allergies and asthma reactions in children, for example. in relation to the Gas Market Directive. In a number of areas where we still have freedom of action, it is not being exploited. Is this also part of the Government's strategy to make the Norwegian people understand that we are best served by being an EU member?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e291	It was probably the case that the central government in particular excelled by having a very high rate of pace when it came to EU adaptation. Most of the directives, including the veterinary agreement, were adopted, other directives that had previously been argued against, and adapted to the EEA Agreement and the different rules drawn up in the EU, and were also announced that this should be done when, for example: the gas market Directive. We believe that, essentially and in the vast majority of cases, we should have dialogue with the European Union in order to find solutions and adaptations that take care of Norway's interests, and in the various areas we believe that we have achieved it. We have dialogue with them on the Gas Market Directive, there is now a dialogue on the Patent Directive, and there is no doubt that if there is a conviction that that Directive is contrary to international agreements and conventions, it is not relevant for Norway to introduce it – to introduce something that is contrary to international agreements and conventions we have signed. We will know in a moment, and then we will decide on that directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e296	SV is very pleased that the Prime Minister is flagging the sick pay scheme so high. We take that as a guarantee that there will be no proposal from the Workers' Party that it will be cut into the sickness pay scheme for the next four years. And this is a very important matter for the voters, who are going to be crucial for many in the election, because we have the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party on the one hand, who will cut the rights, while the Workers' Party, if they stand firm, and the Center Party, if they stand firm, and the SV, if they stand firm, can stand for a completely different regime and a completely different view. What surprises SV is that the Prime Minister has no higher ambitions in combating poverty. Today, the Government has come up with some indicative norms for social assistance, but without money and without binding on the municipalities, this means that social assistance clients still have to fight with school leisure schemes, with kindergarten rates and with care for the elderly about who is going to get the most money. Why in the world does not a Social Democratic Prime Minister in 2001 have as a vision to eradicate poverty in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e303	My vision is to eliminate poverty in Norway. And I think there are few goals that are more important than eliminating all poverty in Norway. But at the same time, I know that abolishing poverty is about a lot of different things, because poor people in Norway are an expression of a lot of different fates. It's about drug addicts, it's about immigrants with poor Norwegian skills who don't get a job, it's about lonely caregivers, and it's about people who fall out of the labour market. That is why we need to do many things at the same time to address poverty: Norwegian training, better labour market measures and helping people into working life are important measures against poverty. The development of psychiatry is an important response to poverty. But perhaps the most important thing is that people should be able to live on their own income. There is a shortage of labour in many industries in many places in the country. Then it's a tragedy that people go out of work, and therefore everything about competence and training is helping people back to work, perhaps the most important single measure to combat poverty in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e308	The Prime Minister started his presentation today by talking about Morten Skogmus and Klatremus. And there I think he actually took some of the dilemma of the Norwegian people's soul on the grain. But what hit me was that no matter what the Prime Minister is talking about, it's a mouse-skrit. It'll be a little bit here and a little bit there and a little bit more in all areas of what we've heard so many times before from the prime minister. And what surprises me most about this government is that you can't mobilize people for a vision, for some big, visionary goals about where we're going to be in four years, why people aren't being mobilized for having the best school in the world. The Prime Minister and I belong to the generation in Norway who have had greater opportunities than any generation before us. We live in the world's richest countries, and what the Prime Minister presents is some mouse-skrit – a little here and a little there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e315	I fully accept that you can disagree with some of what the Government does, and that you can have different positions and different views and even be critical of some of the proposals that the Government makes, but calling it mouse-skrit feels I'm completely misunderstood. We are now carrying out the reorganization of Norwegian hospitals. There has been no greater grip than what we are doing now with the state acquisition of the hospitals. We are facing perhaps the greatest reform of higher education we have ever seen, through the measures announced in a few weeks. What comes on Friday is the biggest reform of Norwegian defence in many decades. At least it is not a mouse critique, nor is it my impression that the rapporteurs and others who come forward refer to it as a mouse critique. We're halving the number of police officers and the number of police districts, and I've met many of those police officers, and they don't see it as a museum critique either, they see it as a dramatic reorganisation of the Norwegian police force. That's also the point. Many hundreds of police officers come out of the offices and out into the street to take thieves and basements. The cliffs don't feel like muskrats to be taken, but they're to be taken, because the police don't sit in the offices. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e320	It was a self-satisfied prime minister with a long list of jewelry we heard in the post, but now we are beginning to recognize a bit of the good rhetoricist Stoltenberg in his last reply. My problem with the Prime Minister is on his major project on the modernisation of the public sector, which is an important project, and which has gone over many governments – including former governments of which Stoltenberg has been part – but for his government this has become a project to replace the previous government project on a simpler Norway. I mean to see that there's an ideological difference here. Where the Workers' Party wants to change a system with a more streamlined and efficient system, where the central government was concerned about how the individual citizen – whether individual citizens are in a small enterprise or social security – should experience a simpler everyday life. And when the Prime Minister took over the government offices, there was a menu of simplification projects for the individual and the individual citizen out there. We now hear that a lot of this has been scrapped by the users. And Stoltenberg has promised in Stortinget that the project will continue. What does he have to say to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e327	I would like to take the opportunity to thank Sponheim for the menu he left in the government offices drawers. We've opened the drawers, took out the menu, and we're going to do what it says. Because we're powerful followers of a simpler Norway, but we think it was a little bit small. We will make far greater reforms of the public sector than you planned. That's why we're dealing with the heavy stuff in the hospital system, that's why we're going a lot further than you dreamed about reforming the police system. There's too many policemen in the office, there's hardly any other department that's grown faster than the police department, yet there's not enough police in the streets. We're doing something about that by halving the number of police districts. I also believe that those who come with us on Friday will see that there is a rather dramatic renewal of Norwegian defence that does not involve a reduction, but a conversion, so that we get a stronger, more powerful defence and thus a safer Norway. It is also renewing the public sector, and it is hardly any other time that we have had as many major reforms in the public sector as we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e334	Had we had a somewhat more humble Prime Minister today, he would have said at once that it was in the previous government, under Minister of Justice Dørum, that the important steps in simplifying and modernising the police case were taken. But I would recommend the Prime Minister to turn the papers with all the good suggestions for a simpler Norway and read on the right page, and not on the blank page, because then he will see the following, which is now presented in an NHO report last week: Of 45 major simplification projects, nine were carried out, seven were completed when the Bondevik government went off, two were easy to foam down shortly afterwards, 36 were delayed or disguised. Of the 36, 26 are incarcerated, 24 were in the path when Bondevik's government went off. The N.H.O. says the project is scrambled. Can the Prime Minister not see that he should turn the papers and read on the right page with all the good suggestions? Then he can fulfill what he has said in Stortinget about implementing a simpler project for the individual, and not just this system thinking that social democrats stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e340	I think it's very important to think about systems and to organize the systems better. What I'm trying to say is that when we say e.g. Takes on higher education, where the average age of a graduate student is now 29 years, and where the normal rate of progress is 20 weights per year, while there is actually 11, i.e. Half of what it should be is a problem for society, for the individual student and for the whole of the important tool of higher education. That is why we are presenting a major reform in which students need to get through faster, new degree structures, better quality. I also think that is simplification. Call it system thinking, but it's a better society and an example of one of the many reforms we're now working on. It has happened before that I disagree with the NHO. If the NHO believes that we are not renewing the public sector, I disagree with them, but my impression is that the NHO is quite satisfied with what the Government is doing now in terms of renewing the public sector, in relation to simpler municipal economy, health, school, education and many other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e347	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e350	Let me just begin by saying to the last Prime Minister now said, that he gets to read the evening post, and he will see that the NHO is deeply disappointed by the lack of follow-up in terms of a simpler Norway compared to the code of business. The Labour Party Government has been in office for almost one year now. We can form a picture of what it stands for. The government is reasonably concerned with some structural reforms related to health and oil ownership. However, the reforms have been designed in such a way that it is hardly possible to see results before the elections. It's hard to see what visions and values the government uses for social development. We get the impression of a government that in many ways is a administration board. In some key areas, we see negative developments. Uncertainty is created about the future of the cash support reform. This is important for many families with children. The reform has been implemented by most of the families of young children concerned. It's popular, and there'll be strong reactions if it's tried out. The working party must clarify its position on this before the election. A good school is essential to ensure that everyone is able to participate in the knowledge society of the future. Strengthening youth is particularly important, including: in the case of increased awareness of ICT and improved training opportunities for teachers. Much in Norwegian school is good, but we have to ask: Do the challenges of the future as they are organized today? The central government took too many measures with the aim of turning the school pyramid upside down. A number of local attempts were made. In order to get a better school, it is important to reduce central school governance. Unfortunately, in this area, the Government of the Workers' Party has been in favour of centralising decisions. It is important that big business and government concentrate on what the school should learn and leave more to the teachers and the school to decide how it should be taught away. We are constantly looking at attacks from the Workers' Party at the colleges, at the right of private schools with professional objectives to receive the necessary support so that it will not be too expensive to go there. These systematic attacks were also seen in the Government's draft budget. The main pillar of Norwegian education shall be the public school, but it is healthy with the supplement many of the private ones represent. The Prime Minister often uses a lot of words about voluntary action, but when it comes to reality, we have seen something else. The budget proposals of the Stoltenberg Government marked a significant cut in the allocation of a number of non-governmental organisations. In environmental policy too, we can record a deterioration under the Workers' Party. The government joined because the Workers' Party is working to establish polluting gas power plants. The government has not so far made any concrete proposals to improve climate policy. In other environmental areas, too, we have seen little, except that the government bowed to the pressure from a large majority against hydroelectric expansion on the Salt Mountain. There are many reasons why we should have a new government – if not before, so at least in connection with the elections. The Christian People's Party has good experience with the central government and is therefore committed to this. Some ask from time to time if we want to sit in government with the Progress Party. To that I have replied and repeated: it is and will be completely out of date. It is based on a political analysis of distances in issues such as international solidarity, environmental policy, drug policy, bio- and genetic issues, to mention something. The Christian People's Party wants to return to government because we want a policy that is firmly rooted in our national and Christian cultural heritage. We want a forward-looking society with dynamic interactions between the public sector, voluntary involvement and a market with competitive companies. Last week's violent events show the need to combat all forms of crime, with both police, awareness-raising and valuable mobilisation. Family policy must be based on freedom of choice and good care for children. We want to provide young children's parents with security so that the cash support continues. We need an active and credible energy and environmental policy with concrete measures for lower climate emissions. Structural reforms are important, but they must not become a sleep cushion for lack of concrete commitment in the health and care sector. It doesn't mean much to patients if the state or states own hospitals, if they don't get the treatment they need. Education and research shall be a central investment in people and quality of life. We're going to have an open, efficient and unbureaucratic public sector and get back to speed in reducing the form field, as we started. A more stable and predictable industrial policy needs to be pursued, and active district policy must be pursued on the basis of an overall effort to reduce the relocation rate, where unfortunately the Stoltenberg government has weakened its efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e376	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e379	The representative Bondevik used his post to find that we need a new government and, in his opinion, a new central government. He also says that we need that after the election. What has shaped this winter has been the attempt of the Progress Party to dress up some new clothes, among other things. to make yourself at the center and Kjell Magne Bondevik. Now Bondevik notes in his statement that it is not appropriate to sit in government with the Progress Party, but my question is: Can the representative Bondevik imagine a central government based its policy on the support of the Progress Party here in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e386	The government we want to sit in and come back to – unless it becomes a majority government, and we realize that it can be difficult – will, as the previous central government, and as the Labour Party government does now, have to rely on support from case to case in the Grand Duchy from different parties. And so does the Working Party. In some cases, they actually also get the support from the Right Party and the Advance Party, in other matters at the center parties. Correspondingly, the central government acted. That's the way it's going to be when we have a minority government. The question is whether we have parties that demonstrate the ability and will for flexibility and cooperation in the Storting, especially to build bridges over contradictions and together find good solutions in the major, important issues for the country. There Christian People's Party and Center have shown themselves constructive. The working party did not appear constructive in the first two years of opposition. They may need more adult education in the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e393	Simple adult training also tells that the situation of the Workers' Party in the minority government position and the central government was quite different, as the Workers' Party has a very many different majority to build on in the Storting than what will be the case for a center government as we saw it last time. The Centre Parties, together with the Workers' Party, have chosen to prioritise distribution in the last two years. We have done so through the two budgetary agreements that have been put into place in the Grand Duchy. It will also be so after the election, if Bondevik's dreams of a new central government come true, that it has to face a side election. Then my question is: what will be the main profile of that government – will it be to build on important welfare systems, district policies, international solidarity, or will it be those areas where the centre can find common ground with the right parties, such as private schools, parts of industrial policy, for example? What will be the most important profile of such a government?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e400	The situation is basically nothing different for a central government than for the Workers' Party. If the Workers' Party is not supported by the Centre Parties, they must go to one or both Right Parties. It actually does the labor party government from time to time. And so did the central government. I actually think the center in many ways has that advantage, because we're so politically located in the center that we are, that we can easily cooperate on both sides. This worked well for two and a half years. When we had to go, it was because the Workers' Party will build polluting gas power plants, which show a clear distinction in policy in an important environmental matter. I have therefore also answered the question about page selection. When we want a new central government, I gave a lot of reasons for that. We want a better environmental policy, we want a better district policy, we want a better family policy, and we want a more active policy for human rights in Norway and abroad, which we are going to address tomorrow's Question Time. So the choices are not between the options Hill-Marta Solberg made. She's back in the old block thinking -- it's too far over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e407	At one point, it is at least clear that it crystallizes a clear majority if the Christian People's Party, Right and Advance Party together would share power after the election. There are the three parties on the Stortinget that agree that there is a need for tightening up the health pay system. There they have a clear community through their political programmes. Then my question is: will the representative Bondevik now confirm that such a majority here in Stortinget will result in tightening up the health pay system, as these three parties have actually programmed?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e412	I actually thought that the Labour Party too, with a little bit more seriousness, is looking at the problem we now have with the automatic, powerful expenditure growth in the population's population that makes us stop doing things, to the extent that we should, prioritizing other welfare reforms. The Sandman Committee has presented a balanced proposal, in which all, employers, the state and employees, contribute. This was in the hands of the former Labour Party Council, Matz Sandman. There appears to be a number of government councils in the current government in favour of this. I note that the Prime Minister makes a different point of view. But in this way, the Labour Party government can impose on future governments, whether there should be a labor party government or other, major problems in clearing up room for other welfare reforms. I don't think that's wise. Of course, we will work for what we program in this area. It is not a unilateral restriction of employees' rights. It is a balanced solution in which all parties participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e419	I would like to ask Kjell Magne Bondevik what plans the Christian People's Party has for the further development of the cash support scheme. In the budgetary procedure last autumn, the Progress Party proposed to extend the system by one year's class, which was not done by the Christian People's Party. Originally, it has always been planned to ensure financial equality for all families with children under school age, on the basis of the principle of choosing a form of care yourself and of ensuring that the State is financially non-discriminatory. It was very disappointing for many who had hoped that the scheme would be extended to older age groups. I allow myself to ask Kjell Magne Bondevik if it is such that the Christian People's Party has now dropped plans for the further development of the cash support scheme up to the age of five.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e427	We haven't dropped the goal of being able to do it, but we're frankly saying that we believe this reform is primarily important for children under the age of three. This is when most parents have the greatest desire to have more time with their children, either to be home full-time or to find flexible arrangements. That's why we have concentrated efforts on them, and we haven't been able economically to promise that we can get any longer in the coming years. Of course, we'll look for opportunities to do that. But in order to be economically realistic and not to promise too much in all possible areas, we have chosen to prioritise them for less than three years. That's a priority we accept. With regard to the rates of cash support, the Progress Party has been involved in two budgetary settlements with the central parties about these, so we are largely responsible for that. It is desirable to step them up in line with a stepping up of the support per. children's gardening space. But this has to be assessed from budget to budget in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e434	Then I will follow up on the last Bondevik now said. It has also been part of the cash support agreement that we receive equal treatment for private and municipal kindergartens also in the case of municipal support, so that there are identical conditions. Can we expect that also the Christian People's Party will continue to work for it, and that we will implement that part of the agreement? So Bondevik said that you haven't seen yourself financially able to do more. I assume that Bondevik then thinks that, in his opinion, it is limited what can be used by the very significant state financial resources for domestic purposes, in view of the possible impact on the demand pressure in the Norwegian domestic economy. Can Bondevik think of other schemes, which may be welfare schemes, that do not burden the domestic economy, because you can buy services from other countries, as you accepted when it comes to hospital services? Will Bondevik and the Christian People's Party be involved in evaluating new forms, in line with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e441	Only when it comes to equality with regard to the support of private and municipal kindergartens: yes, there is something Christian People's Party and the centre parties stand for, and we have also promoted the view that private kindergartens included in the plans of the municipalities should be obliged to receive the same support as the municipalities. In terms of domestic and foreign spending, we are open to considering concrete proposals based on its impact on the Norwegian economy. That was also why we went in for this extra billion when it comes to operations abroad, and of course we can also be open to look at other areas where you can do the same. But we must not reduce the responsibility of the Norwegian authorities for their own citizens and to provide them with the basic welfare services, as far as possible, in our own country. With regard to the use of money abroad and the impact on the Norwegian economy, perhaps the Progress Party could think a little about it when they suggest strong cuts in the appropriations of the world's poor people, the unhelp. It doesn't seem like much to the pressure of the Norwegian economy, if it worries Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e450	No, we're less concerned than the other parties about this with the pressure in the Norwegian economy. We don't think this can be done in detail, as others do. But in his reply to the Prime Minister, Kjell Magne Bondevik Stoltenberg recalled what Stoltenberg said a year ago, that it was a very small-scale Bondevik government, and then Bondevik said it was a small-scale Stoltenberg government. And then I'm going to ask, does Bondevik agree that it's because you have a minority government, and that eventually it's starting to become an independent desire to get to a majority government? If there's an election situation, what's the Christian People's Party going to give the highest priority? Is this the concern for family policy, private schools and independence in the Church – the traditional Christian People's Party issues – or will one give priority to district policy, environmental policy and other kinds of things that really had nothing to do with what was the basis for the creation of the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e457	In fact, as far as the Christian People's Party is concerned, I think I've read more about it and the party's first programs than Carl I. Hagen obviously did. And there he will see that issues such as international solidarity, governance and thus environmental policy – in order to use a more modern concept – social justice and respect for life, which have been updated through bio- and genetic questions, were important issues for the Christian People's Party from the very beginning and today. In these areas, we must note that the Progress Party is far from us. This is actually value questions for me. So it's not that the Christian People's Party on value issues has very much in common with the Advance Party, and then on more economic-practical issues we stand far apart. No, in fact, these are important issues of value in social justice, international solidarity, bio- and genetic issues, management responsibilities and environmental policies. A majority government has its advantages, but it also has its disadvantages, and I see today that nothing else is relevant than different minority options. That's not the only reason this government is weaker than it could have been. It acts more like an administrative board.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e464	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e467	A year or so ago, after a Prime Minister's political statement in this part of the United Kingdom, the last debate has taken place. In that year, much has happened in Norwegian policy: we have received a new government. We've experienced bigger fluctuations in the parties' dissolution of polls than we've seen before. Over several months, the measurements have shown that there is a clear majority on the civil side in the policy of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. Now that we have come well into the election year, I think there is good reason to take this opportunity for a political debate on precisely this development. This evening's debate should give a few more indications of the direction in which our society is led by the political flows. Then we have to talk about what divides, and what unites the political parties. The Progress Party has been in the opposition role on Stortinget for 25 years, apparently well. Now this situation has changed. In recent months, the Progress Party has expressed its wish for government more clearly than ever. The proposal for a State budget is moderated in some areas, as is the programme proposal for 2001-2005. The adjustment appears unambiguously to be an approach to the possible government partners. The party has been aware that the government position should be achievable together with the Right Christian People's Party and, if necessary, the Left. This is an important change in the political picture. In the last few months, Norwegian policy has been more or less overshadowed by the efforts of the Progress Party to benefit its potential government partners, although it has not looked very good. Cleaning up troublesome elements to become the living rooms as a government party has assumed some forms that we have not seen before in Norwegian politics. These processes have raised the question of whether we are facing a party that is fundamentally undemocratic in relation to what we are used to in Norwegian politics. One of the biggest parts of Storting is now in a dramatic situation. It is not up to us others to assess the internal affairs of the parties. But the situation forces questions that have to do with the political line. And there are many questions raised. Are we facing a party where human culture is so strong that the party leader can call a young girl’s accusations of sexual abuse ‘loose claims’? Yes, regrets were absolutely imperative. But even excuses in retrospect do not do that unspokenly. Had Hagen today owned the post of state council that he dreams of, such statements would probably be fateful. The distribution policy has been the most important when the centre and the Workers' Party have made up a majority on the Stortinget. The last two years' budgetary settlement has underlined this. It is a fact that the deepest division between the parties in Norway is going right here – in terms of public welfare, in terms of rural and agricultural policy and on international solidarity. When the Workers' Party, together with the Centre, has given priority to these areas, the right parties on the other hand have cut heavily on the same measures. The centre parties point to family policy, a competitive business and private schools as important points of contact with the right parties. What will be crucial for the centre's route selection after the election? Will there be issues of distribution and welfare policy, or will they go in the other direction? Many people would say that this is an old theme, but the new one in the picture is the Progress Party's efforts to become a credible government party. The major and crucial issue in Norwegian policy is therefore whether the Progress Party now appears as a credible partner of the Right and Center – either as a parliamentary basis or as a government party. The political debate today and months in the future should help to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e495	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e498	One of the important changes the central government made in relation to the policies of former workers' party governments was within family policy. We stand for freedom of choice. We stand for a policy to improve the possibility of getting together between children and parents. The Labour Party represents a one-sided family policy in which they give the answer on behalf of parents, i.e. kindergarten. We think the parents themselves should be allowed to choose that. There are many young children's parents who are now uncertain about whether the cash support will remain in the coming years because we are still receiving notice from the Workers' Party that they will remove it. The scheme is popular. It is used by a majority of the children concerned. Two out of three children receiving the cash support are cared for by their own parents – only 15 pst. by day-mother or trainee. So the warnings that this would lead to a massive increase in the use of day-olds have failed. My question to Hill-Marta Solberg is: Will the Workers' Party go in to remove the cash support if the party gains power after the election?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e505	When the representative Bondevik is going to describe what his government did in the field of family policy, it is important to include some more elements. Bondevik says it is essential that the parents themselves should choose. But then it must be a real choice. The central government that Bondevik led contributed to was what we must be able to characterize as a sudden stop in the expansion of kindergartens here in the country. This means that we still have a long way to go before we've achieved full child-care coverage and before there's a real choice the parents are facing. So in that area, the effect of the central government's policy was actually very negative. In the case of the Workers' Party and the cash support, the representative Bondevik is well aware that the Workers' Party has adapted to a situation where a majority of the Storing is to maintain the cash support, and it will of course also be so in the future that as long as there is a clear majority here who want such a scheme, neither will the Workers' Party launch a campaign against this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e514	First of all, Hill-Marta Solberg's situation description is not correct. There was no emergency stop in kindergarten. The budgets were not affected by it, and the kindergarten message that our government provided added to an escalation with a view to full needs coverage. The current Minister for Children and Family Affairs went out high while she was in opposition, criticizing our government for the ambitions. When she herself became the Council of State, she left herself largely on the same ambitions. It shows the difference between the Workers' Party in the opposition and the Government in the fields of kindergarten and family policy. My question was: Will the Workers' Party opt for the Party to remove the cash support scheme – we are not talking about the evaluation and any adjustments to take place based on experience, but will the Workers' Party simply go in to cancel the scheme, exempt the support of the young children's parents who have it, and those who expect it? That was the question, and then the Workers' Party cannot just hide behind a possible majority on the Stortinget. The lot itself must give clear notice, because this can mean too many voters as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e524	In the context of family policy, as in all other areas, the Workers' Party will go to the elections on what are our solutions. And our solutions in terms of child and family policy are to ensure that we achieve the goal of full child care coverage, which we aim to achieve by 2003. We hope that it will be possible to have a majority of other parties in the Grand Duchy in order to achieve that goal. As I said instead: it won't be relevant for the Workers' Party, because as long as a political majority on the Stortinget wants to maintain that arrangement, we have recognised that that is the situation. On that basis, we have, in fact, also entered into budgetary agreements where the cash support is contained in the agreements, precisely with the central parties, which introduced that arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e531	The Prime Minister avoided answering most of the questions in a good school meeting style. Instead, he talked about other things. When you heard him, you'd think we'd had tax cuts in Norway lately, but we've had the highest increases in human memory. But my question now concerns business, because it is clear that there are problems in competitive business – market shares are falling, employment is falling, and investment is falling. And having a vibrant business out there is the prerequisite for having something more than the oil revenue to go on. Then my question is, does Hill-Marta Solberg not understand, unlike the Prime Minister, that this business would like to know before the election what their terms are? Why does the Workers' Party want to keep these important questions hidden? After all, it is all about the future of value creation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e541	Firstly, there is no doubt that the Labour Party is very conscious of the importance of the competitive part of Norwegian business. That's also our main reason why we can't flirt with those parties that think we can only disappoint in the Norwegian economy, send in a larger number of billions because there are unresolved problems. The Labour Party cannot be involved in this, because we know that it means just hitting our competitive industry. It has been leading our economic policy for many years, and I think that is also well known to the Right. Even though the representative Petersen is trying to say something else, it is clear that the Workers' Party has actually contributed to the tax havens for those who have the least in their financial arrangement in the last two years. And the budget agreement that the Workers' Party entered into here in the Stortinget with the central parties, describes some measures on the tax side that we're going to spend the necessary time on, and then come back to Stortinget with. I understand the rhetoric that Jan Petersen chooses by characterizing it as keeping things hidden. [[The President clubs.]] In fact, I agree with those in the center parties who say that good solutions are better than for fast solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e548	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e551	It's quite clear that we have a democratic problem here, because it's quick to get into solutions that people don't have an impact on, or get calculated before a decision is made, and then we can get new types of cyclical tax decisions that make those who have adopted them run from them as soon as it turns out that they work. One of the main reasons why we should modernise Norwegian society is that we need to free resources for the highest priority purposes. In these areas, the Workers' Party simply falls backwards because they allow a red tape to happen to the Norwegian community. And they're still putting on arrangements. In the budget they added something, and we get new arrangements in the form of Brustad arches, mountain arches and boat registers and all these things. At the same time, the Labour Party does not want to do anything with the County Council, and my question is: can we hope at least that the Workers' Party will now oppose the administration of several tasks so that we do not get any efficiency gains when we have transferred the hospitals to the State, but that it is possible to ‘scale’ down instead of spending even more money on managing ourselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e558	I believe the representative Petersen's description of the reality of what the Workers' Party is doing is very wrong. The Labour Party Government is making major changes in the public sector just to release resources for services, in order to red tape. Larger projects have been launched in this area than have been done in much, much longer, Norway. The right policy to free resources is to provide resources for tax relief, and above all for those who have the most. Estimates made at the Right Financial Order for this year show that their actions are primarily tax-free, and then to those who have the most, more specifically, about NOK 2000 to one who has a income of NOK 500,000-600 000, while on the other hand they are willing to cut sick pay to people who have been registered, and then I think Right is facing a serious explanation problem. In the Labour Party, we have made clear decisions at our national meeting that we should have a third elected level. We are in a large process where the Storting will be presented with a notice of division of tasks, and then we will come back in detail to the questions that Jan Petersen raises here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e565	So this is the reason why the Workers' Party is not going to save the money they should save, and so they have to call for high taxes. Otherwise, Hill-Marta Solberg takes a mistake in most of what she said about Right Policy. In particular, our economic policy aims at a better focus on the most important tasks. Remember, we're doing too little when it comes to school, when it comes to education, in the fight against crime, road construction and defence – and our budgets have been balancing on that point every year, so I would recommend Hill-Marta Solberg not to use the Prime Minister's school meeting tactics. But then to my last question. One of the major reorganisations will concern the Defence. And that's very dramatic what we're about to hear. It won't be a better defense. My question is therefore – with a never so small prayer in the question: I hope it is not such that these 25 billion are a coercion Workers' Party intended to interfere? Every year, the right has had a defence budget higher than that of the Labour Party. Our budget had not created the frustrations that the Workers' Party's constant cuts have caused. I hope that the Workers' Party will now take advantage of the opportunity to turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e572	It seems to me that it is a never-ending political mystery when the Right believes that it is so important to release resources for education and for a number of areas within society that the foremost message the Right presents is tax-free. It is tax-free that the Right should first and foremost release resources, and then it goes without saying that, until now, when the Right has at least been reasonably moderate in using oil money, they are able to obtain this tax burden through cuts in other businesses. There won't be any better solutions – it's going to be worse solutions. When it comes to the reorganisation of the defense, the representative Jan Petersen knows there's a proposition coming to Stortinget on Friday. Then all the details of the proposal will become known, and I expect that we in the Stortinget for many, many weeks and months to come will have major debates on this proposal. The government has signaled its commitment to a broad settlement on the future organisation of defence. And it would be very desirable if Right and Jan Petersen instead of locking themselves in heads and ears or in organizational measures would rather be open to engaging in such discussions in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e579	Both the Prime Minister and the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party have been concerned that the centre parties have to choose sides, and I would like to get back to that. Because it's not like there's just some parties that have to choose sides. What is most important for the Workers' Party? Is it to secure support from the right to put up a larger and stronger state, for example. in the form of state acquisitions of hospitals? Is it to ensure owner-concentrations in the farming and fishing industries by facilitating such policies along with the right-hand side of Norwegian policy? Is it to ensure EU membership with the support of the same political parties? Is there a strong change in agricultural policy with larger and fewer units supported by the right? Or: Are you committed to ensuring a fairer distribution in a strong public sector that preserves the community and to building a better public school together with the centre parties? What is most important for the Workers' Party? Which side does the Labour Party intend to choose in Norwegian policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e588	I note that, like other representatives from the centre, Enoxsen and the Centre are concerned with marking the distance from the Workers' Party – that is to the extent the role of opposition parties. However, it is a fact that it is precisely the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties that have agreed on what is the most important governing tool for the Norwegian Biggest for the development of society, namely the State budget. That's what's our most important tool in Stortinget to design a Norwegian policy and to steer the development of our society. There we have come together through two important budgetary agreements, and it has been an important side choice for the Workers' Party, precisely in order to prioritize fair distribution, in order to give priority to strengthening not least the municipal sector. The representative, Mr Enoksen, must also admit that there have been many years ago – at least not in the years when the Enox and the Central Party were in government – that we managed to prioritise the municipal sector in such a good way as we have done in the current economic environment. In fact, the Workers' Party has also fulfilled the Central Party's promise at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e593	I actually didn't intend to use my last line on the Workers' Party. But: I am not primarily concerned with distanceing the Workers' Party; on the contrary – as I have said eloquently – I believe that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the other Centre Parties have a lot to work together on. I register that Hill-Marta Solberg does not answer my question. Indeed, it is not just the State budget that lays down policy. Most importantly, structural issues are not least the question of whether we should get fewer and larger units — for example: fewer county municipalities and fewer and larger municipalities – whether we should get more distance from people, or whether we should develop the principle of subsidiarity, as the Centre Party wants. In fact, I still have the benefit of getting answers to my questions. What does the Workers' Party want? What kind of development does the Workers' Party want? It is seen as the most important thing to cooperate with the right parties on key structural issues such as: larger and fewer units, which are engaged in EU membership, agricultural policy, district policy, owner-concentrations and in a larger country, e.g. in relation to state hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e603	As I said before, I believe that we have chosen a side in what is the most important, namely the financial arrangement. It is the most important governance instrument. We have taken positions which must be reconciled with the Central Party on the issue of general government, especially in view of the fact that the Workers' Party does not want to put down the county council as Right, but on the contrary wants to maintain a third elected level. It is a structural point of view in which the working party and centre should, according to all probability, come together. Otherwise, I have to say that it might be too much to hope that the Central Party will be the party that is easily involved in the heavy, necessary conversion processes in the public sector. There I just have to say that the central party's position as usual is that what we have done before, that is certainly the best thing in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e612	I'm going to use my line to just invite you to cooperate. The racist killing we saw a short time ago has shocked us all. It is important that, in the fight against racism, we rise above the party political divide. The Prime Minister invited us all today to fight racism everywhere. Here social democrats and true liberals in this room should find each other. It surprises me, therefore, when I see today that while the Prime Minister has been sitting and writing his statement and urged that racism be combated everywhere, his Social Minister rejects a proposal from the Oslo City Council to use the spectres to combat racism where racism actually exists in everyday life. We know it exists every weekend. Now there is already a proposal from the Left to deal with the Storting to make such changes to our spectres that it is possible to combat everyday racism where we know it. Will the Labour Party's parliamentary leader cut through, follow the Prime Minister's advice and participate in such cooperation in the Great Britain against racism in everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e621	I think the invitation that Sponheim and Left come with here is important. I don't think we can just change the development that we've seen in our society just through legislation. We have to be aware of what is happening in everyday life. It's a challenge for each of us. Probably something has happened; we've got some higher thresholds, we accept a little bit more of what is everyday racism. With regard to the specific proposal referred to and presented by the Left in the Stortinget, we normally have to get back to it in the treatment process. I don't want to reject it or otherwise relate to the content at this point in time. We must be allowed to come back to this during the specific handling.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e628	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e631	I allowed myself to ask a question that I would follow up, namely the fact that Norway, the Norwegian state, is really focused on money. We have received significant revenues, and the return on oil wealth – that is, the return on oil wealth – has been calculated by the Ministry of Finance at NOK 73 billion, of which 12 are used. What to me is a kind of moral question concerns this huge gain. Who is it? Who's going to enjoy it? The current position in this room is that as much as possible should be disregarded in order to pay pensions to the age group of 50 and those younger today, while those today are old, as well as not having any particular benefit from it. I think it is a moral question whether not also the generation that built this country – and in far worse conditions than we have now in the 50s – that is, those who are today well over 70-80 years could get better. It is difficult to do something in particular about increasing pensions, says the majority, or increasing access to money beyond what has been agreed in the reform of the elderly, or improving the economy of those who are healthy older – and fortunately most of the elderly – because then there will be so-called pressure in the economy, I understand. I have also realized that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have been looking for good ideas that can improve the well-being of part of the population without putting pressure on the economy. I'm going to present one of these ideas now: It is somewhat as simple as offering the elderly over 70 years — possibly — stay in the South for a certain period of time in the autumn and winter. The costs of holiday stays – of course in order – that can be organised by using agreements with the travel agencies, by providing proper places in southern Spain, Majorca, the Canary Islands, Greece and Turkey, are paid by the State, so that people who may not afford two months stay in the autumn could get it. It would also be preventive in a health and welfare context. For many older people are lonely. Many of their friends may have gone away, and the children have moved. If you could get organized tours, with people from, for example, Harstad at the same hotel in Mallorca for two months in the fall, they would become acquainted with each other in the two months below. They'd get warm, they'd get better health, they'd get new friends and acquaintances, and when they got home, they'd have a network. Other countries have started to look at this. I know that you often come up with new thoughts, smile a little and ridicule it – and then you do it a few years later, but a little too late. There are many older people in this country who have poor advice. If we from the state make a system like what I'm sketching here in brief, we could improve the standard of living and the standard of living for those who have built this country. We could get them new networks, new friends and acquaintances, and being in warmer places when it's really cold – sometimes relatively bad, perhaps especially in the more northern parts of our country – would be healthful. I think we could also look at this in a kind of moral context. Should the money just be put away, or should we be able to say that if we spend money abroad, it's not inflationary and won't bring any pressure to the economy? The elderly who have built up this country deserve to get a handshake to something that very many younger people pay out of their own pockets – and it is natural for 40, 50 and 60 year-olds to do – but for those who may not have built up supplementary pensions, this would be reasonable thinking. The various travel companies – I have examined a little – will be able to organise such trips through agreements with the state. So I allow myself to present this as a kind of vision of how we could in practice help those who have built the country, and not save until we ourselves grow old.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e650	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e653	I find that the representative Hagen in his speech today makes use of the oil money for almost a moral matter. In my reply, I would challenge the representative Hagen in another area that I believe has to do with moral and ethical attitudes. We have behind us this racist-motivated killing that has shaken most of Norway, and in retrospect we experienced that also the representative Hagen at the County Council meeting of the Advance Party in Oppland lamented that some in his party have expressed themselves in a way that supports themselves under racist attitudes. We're going into a campaign, and then the extremes are often going to come up. Can we now count on seeing a Carl I. Hagen that is in place as soon as there are any from the Progress Party who are out with statements and statements of such character? Can we expect Hagen to hit it right away?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e662	Yes, as far as oil money is concerned, I think it's actually a moral matter that you should just save them for Hill-Marta Solbergs and my generation and those who come after us, become pensioners, when we can actually do something that doesn't put pressure on the economy, for those who today are 70, 75, maybe 80 years, who are healthy, but who have poor advice because they haven't earned supplementary pensions. I think that's a moral matter, and I'll stand by it. To the second question, yes, Hill-Marta Solberg and others can count on that. If there are any in the Progress Party in the upcoming election campaign who express themselves in a way that can be perceived as degrading, discriminatory and negative to individual groups, whether immigrants or others, I am going to arrest such a thing on behalf of the party. We're not going to have any of that kind of statements. But we are not going to change our immigration and refugee policy for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e669	I think this is very clear speech by the representative of Mr Hagen. I think a lot of people will appreciate that, and it's important that this is followed up. But it is that, over the years, Hagen has even made a number of statements that you can ask questions about belonging in the same street, such as: the statement that a society without ethnic minorities is a society in harmony, or the statement that ‘there are cultures from other countries that made use of knives and percussion weapons common, eventually also among Norwegians’. Does this mean that the representative Hagen is also prepared to withdraw from these statements that he himself has made?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e678	The first statement is an verbatim quote from a book Jo Benkow has written, which he called the "Benkows Law". So I think Hill-Marta Solberg should go back and check the origin of what she relatively easily calls negative statements. This is in the book of Jo Benkow. It's called "Benkow's Law" and looks for what Jo Benkow himself says in his book, fixed an actual relationship. As for the second statement, of course, it's taken out of context, but also in it you could say that it's an element that describes the actual conditions. What is a bit of a problem sometimes is that one does not want to see the unfortunate consequences of a reckless immigration policy. We have pointed out in the past that there are major challenges that have not been taken seriously by the challenges of integration policy. And we are pleased that the Government has actually admitted that integration policy has been flawed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e685	So we can see that Carl I. Hagen is very clear when it comes to defeating the other members of the Progress Party who can help to substantiate and legitimize racist attitudes in society. He's not as clear about his own statements. But what Hagen has said today will mean that at this point he has to expect to have a sharp searchlight on him through the campaign we have in front of us. But I have to be able to draw that conclusion, I suppose, that Carl I. Hagen confirms that any Kleppe-Hedstrom show based on immigration policy should not be experienced in the upcoming election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e693	So in terms of these statements that were referred to here, one from Jo Benkow and not from me, I don't think Hill-Marta Solberg got it all. The second opinion cannot in any way be seen as discriminatory, racist or anything in that direction. We in the Progress Party must do the best we can to stand firm on our asylum, immigration and refugee policies, which are sensible and consistent. We're going to do what we can to avoid making statements that can be perceived as demeaning, that can be perceived in a crazy way, but then you assume that you listen to what's being said, and you don't choose to perceive something that's wrong and wrong and demeaning just because it's a progress party representative who's opened your mouth. We're going to stand firm on our policies. We're going to do what we can to be neat, decent, and real, so no one should feel anything downgraded by what we say.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e700	I think there is reason to follow up this theme, because recent horrific violence and killings have shown how important it is with respect and equality for different ethnic groups, and how important it is to combat racism – how important it is that we are all conscious of a language that conveys equivalency. And there, unfortunately, Frp people have distinguished themselves with a language that sometimes doesn't. It is in such a good way that party leader Carl I. Hagen at the county annual meeting in Oppland has regretted it. Now he has not wanted to take self-criticism at any of the quotations that Hill-Marta Solberg mentioned. What statements from the party traps that he has complained have come, so is he aiming for, and which he takes a distance from? Is that, for example? Vidar Kleppe, who said in the VG on 29 July 1999: ‘What threatens the Norwegian is the criminal activity of immigrants’? Or is it Hedstrom, who said the same year in the Newspaper of June 27: «Where Christians and Muslims, Jews and Arabs and other different cultures live together, is the existence of killings, drugs and other types of crime»? Does Hagen distance from such statements?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e709	Let me first say that I agree with Mr Bondevik that working for respect and equality is important. That is why we have noted with regret that, when the Progress Party has proposed that our immigration, refugee and integration policies in Norway should be based on equal treatment for all regardless of ethnic origin, nationality and skin colour, then we have only received the own votes of the Progress Party. Others have opted for discrimination against people based on origin, so-called positive discrimination, which for us is in principle reprehensible. In the case of opinions, it is difficult to take them out of context. But precisely those two statements were very inappropriate and very unfortunate, and they should not have fallen as they fell.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e716	When I listened to Carl I. Hagen here today, it seemed to me that he wanted to take Norwegian pensioners to the land where sangria, sun and warmth prevail. And I guess it's not that strange about Carl I. Hagen dreams of Spain just these days. But what I thought was striking was that Carl I. Hagen, the leader of the Progress Party, today – just today – was not concerned with combating crime, of law and order, of victims of crime and their situation, of how to take care of those who are being abused. What is the reason why Carl I. Hagen is not currently engaged in fighting crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e723	It's a long, long series of themes that I'm concerned about, that I didn't talk about today in a five-minute post. I chose to start from one aspect of my article right now. Of course, it's quite possible for Kristin Halvorsen to ridicule it, laugh at it, but if she examined people in this country who are healthy, who are 75 years old, 70 years old, 80 years old, who have poor advice, and who think it's bad weather in winter and autumn, then I think she would find that very many would actually think it was a good idea to be able to do something about it, without starting to ridicule someone who would use the huge profits and extra income of the state to anything other than buy shares in Philip Morris, Coca-Cola and international companies, for the generation that I belong to, and that Kristin Halvorsen belongs to. I have no problem talking about crime and law and order and legal certainty at any time and anywhere with Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e732	I think Carl I. Hagen fears that it would be in glass today if he had just made that matter his main theme. For the last few days, for the Progress Party, one thing has been felt: that a young lady named Rustøen suddenly said that the emperor has no clothes on him, and that Carl I. Hagen has known for months about conditions in his own party, did not tolerate the light of the day and people's knowledge. How can the Party of Advancement faithfully talk about law and order and respect for those who are subjected to abuse, when they themselves are willing to look through their fingers with conditions that do not tolerate the light of day?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e739	I think that if Kristin Halvorsen had seen the statements that we have sent out, she would have been a little more humble compared to the statements she makes here. We have been in serious dilemmas, but we have actually – I know that Kristin Halvorsen is not going to believe it – chosen to focus on the wishes of the girls concerned directly and through families expressed to us. It's probably almost impossible for Kristin Halvorsen to understand that, but that's the actual relationship. We've done exactly what we've been asked to do, and we've refused to do that as Kristin Halvorsen did with his after-school and complete lack of knowledge, we think we should have done. We have just taken the considerations that the victims – or what appears to be the victims – have asked of us. We've tried to do what's been right. There's nothing that's as easy as being the best football player when you're sitting on the spectator bench and not participating in the game.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e748	I hear that the representative Hagen is raising his voice very much. I would probably have approximated this situation somewhat more humbly, and I think we'll all do that. I find it difficult to relate to this unreal thing that we have now heard in the last hours and the last days about some aspects of the Progress Party. And as a politician, it's hard to deal with it. I know that as a father of two girls, one in 16 and one in 17 years, I have an aggression in me, because it's so important that we have youth environments with leaders who manage the difficult border climb that's helping young people get into political work and democratic training. I have no intention and no desire to moralize especially towards the Progress Party or Hagen, but I will challenge Hagen to use this opportunity to say something about the special leadership responsibility that we as political leaders have when we assume a responsibility to raise young people to political work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e757	I have no problem agreeing with the main content of what Lars Sponheim is now saying. Leadership is tough, it should be, and one should try to be – let's say – role models. Clearly, the incident that has now arisen is reprehensible, unacceptable and shows a failure of judgment that cannot be accepted. In a lot of ways, you think that the answer is simple. This is not necessarily the case – when you are told that you do not want anything to be done about it, that it should not be made known, and that no searchlights should be placed on those involved. We have tried to take into account the desire that the search light not be put on the young girl and the family. It happened anyway, despite what we were trying to do. We took these requests into account. But as for the action itself, I agree with Lars Sponheim, and we have expressed that for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e764	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e767	Norway is facing a rather desperate need for reform and change. We live in a world with completely open borders, where ever new conditions are created by a tearing fast technological development. And the question is whether we as a nation are well enough prepared for this development. My answer is no. And I think we see an expression of it when we see how things are going with Norwegian competitive business. The year 2000 was not good: fewer employees, investment falls, market shares are lost. And this will weaken our capacity for innovation and transformation in the years to come. I believe that an important reason for this is that the public sector is essing that we are spending money and labour in an increasingly large public sector, and that we are not taking into account the minimum factors of the Norwegian economy, among other things. the dramatic shortage of labour. The right has put on the table proposals to increase access to labour. I think it's absolutely necessary to reverse this development. I think there are three main steps that need to be taken, because a change in course is now required. One is a significantly larger investment in school, education and research. The Prime Minister tried to give the impression that his introduction today had much to do with school, education and research. I read it again after I had been up in the pulpit, and I must say that with the exception of a few words, there was not much there. The current government did not present any offensive strategy to achieve more in this area. He did not invad the serious situation we now see regarding the children's reading skills, and there is no attempt to take action that can be taken, for example. in the case of teacher training, in the case of actual school leave, or in the case of a genuine offensive for, for example. bringing the teachers back to school. I noticed with great joy that the representative Bondevik earlier said that he was considering making school a main field of action for the Christian People's Party. The only prayer for him will be that he stops evaluating and doing so, because the Right needs alliance partners in improving the school. We have also had a round on taxes, and there is no particular doubt that the Workers' Party wants a high-tax regime. It has become clear in terms of over-measures at the last budgetary procedure, where we had the highest tax increases in human memory. Listening to the Workers' Party gives the impression that they think it's possible that Norway can be a sort of fiscally different country, that we can write out the taxes we want, regardless of how the world around us develops. The Swedes have made the opposite assessment, and have come to the conclusion that they cannot continue to pretend that Sweden is not part of the world. At the same time, I think it's an important message to the high-tax parties in Norway, that if we continue in this way, we're going to have a load on both the creative business and the individual, which makes people simply say that enough is enough. I think we have to be aware here in the hall that when it comes to e.g. housing taxes or energy taxes, there are many people who say that enough is enough. That is why we need to ensure that resources are brought out by more far-reaching modernisation than what we now see in the outlines. And it's not that this modernization should just go to the tax haven, as Hill-Marta Solberg suggested it was. No, it is both to bring us up to date with the modern demands for a tax level while at the same time getting a stronger focus on the most important tasks, for the paradox is that in the high tax country of Norway we do not, however, do a good enough job in the most important areas, for example. in the case of health and school. As far as modernisation is concerned, of course, there are many ideas and projects that can be promising. However, if you are not willing to do something really with all the "fat" put on, with all these new measures coming, with all these new things like this. The budget, with more complicated VAT rules, with more complicated rules on electricity charges, etc., will not succeed in this modernisation. It is well in one area that the concept of ‘the devil lies in the detail’ is particularly relevant, and it is precisely in the field of bureaucracy. Here it's not just a lot of use, here you also have to be willing to do thousands of small steps to get the bureaucracy down. And if we don't, we don't free resources for the very highest priority purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e786	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e789	The representative, Jan Petersen, makes the expected tax a big point in his contribution, and that is much in line with the political profile of the Right – tax, and then in the broad sense tax relief. The representative Jan Petersen characterises Norway as the high tax country. At least there is a positive error if it is Sweden and Denmark with which he compares Norway. It is a fact that although Sweden has lowered taxes, they are still at a higher level than taxes in Norway. However, when tax relief is so important to the Right, and when it is a fact that they finance these tax reliefs with significant cuts in welfare schemes, among others. With cuts in the sick pay, it's interesting to ask Jan Petersen and Right the following questions: what kind of values are behind such redistribution, that is, redistribution through tax breaks from those who are sick, to those with high incomes?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e798	It's a misunderstanding if you think there's a transfer to them with higher incomes. I've made it clear several times today that the relief we want goes all over the income scale, and not least what is going on, for example. electricity charges, housing, lifting at the bottom, are highly applicable to the general public. The point is that enough is enough in these areas. With regard to the fact that we want a slightly less generous system than the world's most generous health pay scheme, I must almost refer the answer to the Swedish social democrats, who must have felt that it has been important to make certain changes for the sake of Sweden. And Hill-Marta Solberg is probably aware that our changes are not dramatic if you see them in relation to what the Swedes are doing. The next time the Workers' Party takes part in a Nordic consultation, please ask for the reasons. Then you'll see that in this area too, it'll be fair with props. The question raised, however, is whether the Workers' Party is really as paralysed in this area as today's debate suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e805	If you study the distribution tables contained in the Right's own financial statement, it's clear that the really great tax relief comes for them with the high incomes. It forms the basis of the Right's own financial arrangement. So for sickness pay. For many years in Norwegian policy, the right has been concerned with health and has been for us to have one of the world's best health services. The Labour Party also believes that we should take the goal of having. But we know that it is precisely the health and care workers who are the most vulnerable to morbidity, and who are the ones who use the sick pay scheme most today. I would like to hear what explanation the representative Jan Petersen has to give to a nurse with 250,000 kroner in annual salary, who is sickened perhaps for a whole year because of wear damage, and who will receive 25 000 kroner. in reduced income resulting from the economic arrangements of the Right. What explanation does Jan Petersen have to give to this nurse?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e812	First of all, I want to maintain that it's not right when Hill-Marta Solberg gives the impression that our tax relief is particularly favourable to the high incomes. This is something that all people want to enjoy, and not least what is done on the fee side, will be particularly important for those who have little to live on. I think Hill-Marta Solberg has to accept that our arrangement is better for all groups. What is troubling in Hill-Marta Solberg's answer is that she does not at all deal with the problem that it is impossible for Norway to pursue a tax policy that is different from that of the rest of Europe, without losing the tax base. The Swedish calculation was that without changing a single rule or rate, they would lose 10 pst. of the tax revenue. And we have experience, for example. through border trade, that it is not possible to have a separate tax regime here in Norway without leaving any tax base. We're going to take that recognition inwards. With regard to our explanation of the sick pay scheme, the same applies to all age groups. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e821	Then the speaking time was over, and the line change is also over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e824	It is interesting to note that the Prime Minister used so much of his statement to talk about the need to build on a policy to ensure a fairer distribution, increased commitment to more common welfare, better growth conditions and a better school, to mention some of what the Prime Minister was about. These are areas where there is a clear incentive for cooperation between the Centre Party, the other Centre Parties and the Workers' Party. The fact that the Workers' Party did not return for a short time so that we have increased differences, and not so much the need to address a policy that has over time led to increased differences, I will leave in this context. It is in any case positive that the Prime Minister now also sees the need to follow-up the ex-Social Minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa's reply to the Stortinget. However, as I have also said in reply exchanges, there is just as much reason to take note of what the Prime Minister has not mentioned in one word in his statement. EU membership is the main political project of the Labour Party, at least if you are to listen to Minister of Foreign Affairs and Party leader Thorbjørn Jagland, who repeats and repeats that it cannot be excluded that a new application for membership will be promoted during the next enlargement period. Among other things, it was done in a debate with Johan J. Jakobsen in Dagsnytt Athens on 10 January this year. The Prime Minister has also confirmed in his reply to me today that it may be appropriate to send an application for membership during the next major period. Yesterday, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg was on his first visit to Brussels after he assumed government responsibility. Not unexpectedly, he expresses great concern for our lack of influence and mentions energy, defence, transport, fish and district policy as examples of matters where being a member would be an advantage for us. Of course, the alarming thing is not that a prime minister who more than everything wants to be a part of the good company expresses himself this way. The alarming fact, however, is that, after convincing the Norwegian people of the excellence of such membership, the Government does not attempt to exploit the freedom of action we have by standing outside the EU. I'll give you some examples. One such example is the management by the Minister of Agriculture of the statement from a centrally located source of the European Commission, which claimed to the Nations that Norway would be unproblematic about the ban on imports of bovine animals due to the risk of being enslaved. Instead of taking advantage of the opportunity given, the Minister of Agriculture managed to use his staff — at a rapid press conference — to close the opportunity that had opened up here. The government is following obedient EU policies in this area – with the support of the Right – and is pleased that both consumers and central professional bodies are recommending import bans. It's the same in other areas. The Food Mining Directive is generally accepted without discussion, with the support of the same right-hand side, as is the EU Patent Directive, even if a waiting and looking attitude has been chosen pending the outcome of the Netherlands, which has not accepted the Directive. I can also, as I did in my reply, mention the Gas Markets Directive or the fact that the EU is now entering some Member States' national budgets, as is done in Ireland, which the Government ignores in silence. We are not going to discuss EU membership, says the Prime Minister, we are only going to inform the Norwegian people. The Prime Minister also stated in his speech at the NHO Annual Conference that it was only the negative parties who wanted to discuss the EU in their own interest. Of course it's not like that. The Labour Party shall not avoid a debate on EU membership. I would also like to take on board the contribution of the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, who stated that there would be no support from the Centre for a completely necessary renewal of the public sector. This is, of course, wrong. The centre party will take seriously the challenges facing a modern society. We see that the first-time criminals are getting younger, we see that we have more children with adaptation problems in school, we see more young people with drug problems, and we see increasing violence. We also see parents who are struggling with their parental role and who have problems coping with their responsibilities. Of course, we will take seriously the challenges involved and work towards better growth conditions for our young people. We will also take seriously the problems caused by increased centralisation, with environmental problems, with pressure on cultivated land, with housing prices that disperse young people out of the housing market, with districts where more and more houses become empty. Of course, we will also work to ensure a better school with more adult contact, and we will not least work to ensure that children and young people are offered through leisure clubs, through a better community economy that ensures the municipalities the opportunity to provide real education and offers that are worthy of the modern society of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e843	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e846	The representative of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has chosen to have a very high profile on EU issues in this debate. Enoxen now used in his post words as “freedom of trade” – why not the Government uses the freedom of action we have. He also stated that the Government follows ‘obedient’ EU policies in this area. It will then be interesting to hear if the representative can mention one case, one EU directive, which was rejected by the central government, where the centre party was involved for two and a half years. Or is it perhaps the case that the Central Party had to leave the government offices and return to the Stortinget in order for the Senterpartiet and Enoxen again to keep a high profile in EU matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e853	Of course, it was a problem for the Central Party that we had a large majority who were equally eager to adapt to the EU while we were in government, as when the EU's citizens are in government. It wasn't always as easy to deal with, I'll admit it. However, I think it is well known to the representative Hill-Marta Solberg that controversial directives, such as the Food Mining Directive, the Life Patents Directive and the Babysitting Directive, would have received a completely different treatment in the central government than the government of Stoltenberg has given these directives. I also think I can promise the representative of Solberg that the problem of jealousy would have been dealt with in another way. The Minister of Agriculture of the Workers' Party has been driven from one perspective to another by the question of implementing measures, such as: in relation to the prohibition of imports of feed. I also recorded in the statement that was made earlier today, that the same Minister of Agriculture now also provides the necessary room for action in order to impose a ban on the importation of live animals. Let us hope that the Minister of Agriculture has the courage to take the necessary measures to prevent infection of this type of disease in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e863	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e867	I have a small comment for Carl I. Hagen first. When the leader of the Progress Party tries to hide behind the concern for the victims, it's quite strange, because the behavior that Carl I. Hagen has today characterized as reprehensible, unacceptable, as a failure in judgment, it accepted Carl I. Hagen until last weekend. It's the fact that this became public, which made this not to live with for Carl I. Hagen. Until last weekend, Carl I. Hagen, John I. Alvheim and Siv Jensen have known about this. They have fought with all the means for a person they now turn off, but as they themselves knew what had done. For me, it takes a very long time if Søviknes' version of this case is the correct one, because it's about whether it's acceptable for an adult to hang around with little girls in the political context. What's a paradox for us in SV is that in one of the world's richest countries, there are no major, clear political goals for the future. It was really when the killing of Benjamin Hermansen happened and there were so many people who were willing to be mobilized, who would show that there was something in the world and in Norway that was not acceptable, and who themselves would like to commit themselves to something, that I began to think: Heaven and sea, there are quite a few who would like to be included in a roof, which would like to say from, and which will fight for Norway to be a better country to live in. There's something that's unacceptable. It is totally unacceptable that people should be killed in Norway today because of skin colour. It is totally unacceptable that we do not have a society that fights against violence and discrimination as case No. 1st@item: inlistbox We know what's going on, and we know what's going on around Municipality-Norway. We know that all sorts of small and large initiatives for children and young people are being pinched, and we know that what works to make a real youth and the best possible starting point for as many as possible, it's good and reasonable kindergartens, it's school leisure arrangements, it's cultural provision, it's environments that terriblely many adults, children and young people work for the whole time – every single day – and that have to include as much as possible. Why is it the Swedes, who don't have a single crown of oil anywhere, who impose a maximum price on kindergarten of $1140 per year? month? And why is Petersen here suing for border trade? You can travel as many times as you want over Swinesund and buy spirits, meat, pork and everything else. If you had been a baby mother in Oslo, in a right-hand municipality, you would have made a lot more money moving across the border to Sweden with your children. Why can't we do the same thing as the Swedes? Why is it the Swedes who make maximum prices on SFO? When we had a probationary system in my part of the city – and I live in a multicultural district in Oslo – with a free school vacation scheme, most of the kids went there. Then the price went up to NOK 1000 per person. month – and now it will cost even more – the children who have the worst advice, or those who have their mothers at home, went home. It divides the child's environment a lot more than it needs to do, because very many of the children who have immigrant background have native mothers. We know what works -- there's nothing we need to reinvent. What works is to include as many children as possible in the community. And the crowds that recruit -- whether it's Nynazist gangs, criminal gangs, or whatever it is -- they recruit among the kids and the young people who feel they're not in a community. How can it be that in 2001 we are going to go with a mouse ride? We who were Europe's poorest country a hundred years ago, and who because our ancestors took some great hold, built railways even if we couldn't afford it, started and rusted up both social housing policy, school sector and what it was supposed to be, we are going to sit and rub and rub on what's most important for the future! I don't think that's a good idea. We know what direction it's going in. I would like to say like Marte Svennerud – and I would like more people to say that – the time she was going to pick out one kid from a seven-year-old sibling who was going to be handed over to the village because they were orphans. Then said Marte Svennerud, You take all seven. You don't hear that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e880	A year has passed since Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg in the role of opposition leader, the then central government has characterized it as an outstanding weakness. This was meant to criticise the fact that the central government did not provide a stable governance basis in Stortinget, but rather found it legitimate and appropriate to seek a majority on a case-by-case basis in Stortinget. Today, Jens Stoltenberg is the head of a government that only those in possession of the greatest goodwill will claim to have a stronger governing basis than was the case for the pastors, whom he so ruthlessly criticized. The last year's budget statement was a dramatic expression of the changes that the government of Stoltenberg had to eat in order to obtain a basis for further government. At the beginning of the 2001 election year, we are constantly told that the Labour Party and the Government are open to cooperation with the central parties, if necessary also in government, in order to remain seated. For some of us, it is difficult to completely forget the harsh criticism of the Labour Party leader, Thorbjørn Jagland, at the time he was parliamentary leader in the Workers' Party. The parties at the centre were told that we were in charge of a policy that represented a bomb under the welfare state and was a threat to houses and homes. We certainly do not pose such a danger anymore – not when we can be useful to the Workers' Party. The amazing thing is that it seems that the Labour Party's leadership still does not understand what is being talked about when the Workers' Party is accused of power arrogance. Today, the Prime Minister, through his statement, has made a meaningful contribution to what kind of attitudes we must deal with when we meet the Workers' Party. Rarely has an article in Stortinget been so strongly influenced by one we alone know-position. Without exception, the Prime Minister takes the credit for most of what has happened in his country during the last year. Whether there is upgrading of cancer services and the psychiatry or the implementation of the fixed medical system that the central government took the initiative, the Prime Minister of the Workers' Party also boasts in these fields. Similarly, the Prime Minister maintains the protection of the unique watercourse areas in the Salt Mountain, where a clear majority in the Stortinget – and that was against the Workers' Party – had to stand by before the Government of the Workers' Party was willing to do so. An area the prime minister skillfully avoids talking about is what can be done to increase the democratic interest and commitment of the people most – and this in a situation where we see that a right-wing populist party has sometimes turned up as Norway's largest in polls! Perhaps this is natural for a prime minister who, in a number of cases, finds his basis of governance precisely in cooperation with the right-hand side, although in his presentation today he tried to present the Workers' Party and the parties on the right-hand side as the actual competitors of Norwegian policy. To conclude, there are very many of the signals coming from the Workers' Party and the Government, which are very difficult to interpret. How does the Prime Minister see the basis for closer cooperation with the Centre? Is the statements of the Labour Party leader, through the time of opposition, now to be regarded as dead and powerless, insofar as they cannot be interpreted as friendly to the centre? And a final question to the Prime Minister's final comment: The Labour Party agreed with the Right to lay the foundation for a lower environmental policy and to facilitate the construction of gas power stations with large emissions of CO2. It was this haste that led the Workers' Party back to the government offices last year. Where has it been of the gas power plants the Workers' Party was so hit hard for?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e899	The Prime Minister will receive the floor for a brief final contribution of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e902	First, I would like to thank you for a debate in which many themes have been raised. I'll link some comments to some of them. First of all, the question of school. Not least the representative Petersen has taken up a number of times and claimed that the Government and the Workers' Party have no policy on school. Of course, that's wrong. The government has a good school policy and a comprehensive education policy both in primary, secondary and higher education. We are concerned that many people have difficulty reading and writing in primary school. The problem has been that we have too little knowledge of the extent of the reading and writing difficulties. That's why one of the first things we did was to introduce mandatory second-class and seventh-class reading and writing tests. It is on this basis that we have received significantly better information about reading and writing difficulties in primary school, and on this basis we can also improve the school's efforts, especially towards those with reading and writing difficulties. So this isn't a theme right is just to be concerned about, we're also concerned about it, and we're doing something about it. So, after talking about the importance of doing something in terms of the pay conditions for teachers for very many years, we got this done in terms of income policy cooperation, raising the money and making sure that we both gave teachers more pay and made sure that the students got more education. It's school policy, and it's action we got in place in a few months. We improved the municipalities' economy in the state budget by up to NOK 6 billion in total, the strongest promise ever made. The right has gone for less money to the municipalities. The increases in the appropriations allocated to municipalities by the Government and the central parties allow municipalities to invest more in school, more in school kissing, better school health services, better equipment, better indoor climate and better schooling in general. It is not useful to get a better primary school without a better municipal economy, so you have to be in favour of a better municipal economy if you are in favour of a better school. The right-hand side says no to free textbooks in high school. We say yes, and we have also raised money for it, and we are dramatically betting on the development of new, free electronic learning materials. We want good and comprehensive school leisure arrangements. In government budgets, the right has proposed dramatic cuts in the school leisure system. The right has defended a wide range of private schools, including: teaches that the man is superior to the woman. It is a message the Labour Party does not support, and we have been more restrictive in relation to that type of pedagogy. There are many differences, but the difference is not that the Right is too good school and that the Workers' Party is not concerned about it; it is about the Workers' Party also rates on education, has done it over many years and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-13-2.ana.ud2273e917	Then the debate on the Prime Minister's statement is over. The President will propose that the Political Statement of the Prime Minister be annexed to the Minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
