ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e26	The representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. An application for the extension of the granted leave for the representative of Eli Sollied Överaas from the Central Party Group is submitted until 7 December. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Ola T. Heggem, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e49	Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting be held if necessary — the President repeats: if necessary — continued beyond the time of regulation at 1 p.m. 15 to the current map has been completed. No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e65	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 25 minutes, the Right 20 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e74	The budget under consideration by the Committee on Energy and the Environment today is, in all respects, a substantial one in the Grand Duchy. The Government Parties and the Workers' Party shall ensure a majority of the broad lines of the structure presented by the Government for 2002. I would therefore like to start by crediting the Workers' Party for constructive cooperation and important input to ensure a policy of significant energy and environmental policy ambitions. The government takes the Kyoto agreement seriously. This is reflected, inter alia, in: in the case of increasing investment in new gas power technologies, which ensure the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, in particular CO2. Both with major research funding and with a dedicated cooperation programme with industry, a more environmentally friendly profile will be added to the further debate on gas power plants. This is a significant step in the right direction, and I am pleased that the majority of the committee agrees with this. It addresses the future use of natural gas in a number of sectors, including for industrial and transport purposes. This is also in line with the government's pronounced policy. A number of very good projects around the country are in progress or are being prepared. The Committee points in some areas, including: in Grenland as an industrial centre and several areas of the West where there is a natural increase in investment. There is little doubt that increasing use of natural gas will have environmental benefits that it is important to provide. The Government will therefore come to Stortinget with its own communication on a comprehensive strategy for the use of natural gas for domestic purposes. The Kyoto Protocol is ready for ratification. The government has announced that it will contribute to it quickly. The agreement is ambitious and will also pose significant challenges to Norway. I note with satisfaction that the Government aims to be able to indicate progress already in 2005, three years before the implementation of the contract period. Similarly, the Government has notified an additional message to the submitted climate communication that takes inwards the outcome of the Marrakech meeting, stressing that a significant part of the efforts in this area should be taken at home. In my opinion, this is a more ambitious objective than the Stoltenberg government has proposed in its submitted climate communication. Once again, the majority of the Committee recommends that the creation of a dedicated cultural memory fund be facilitated. Twice in the previous period, the bulk of the population had to ask for this, without it being followed up by the then government. I am therefore pleased that both the Sem Declaration and since the Minister for the Environment so clearly show the willingness to get the fund up and go. This will mean a new grant for a long-term under-priority cultural memory protection in Norway and help to increase predictability of the framework conditions in this area. There is an overall committee that is concerned with the state mapping situation. The cut shown in the setting is significant, but at the same time I am pleased that the Council of State will guard the chart side and thereby ensure the continuation of the necessary efforts in this area. The tragic accident that we experienced with Sleipner some time ago, and the increasing traffic along the coast, not least of Russian vessels with varying loads, suggests that this is urgent. I am also sure that the Council of State will make good contact with the Swedish Cartel Agency to look into their situation and possibly come back to Stortinget with a closer look at this. The agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties implies a desire to strengthen security and preparedness on a Norwegian base. I would therefore like to emphasise that the allocation of 2 million. In addition, under the heading of the Directorate-General for Oil, it is appropriate to manage it in line with the intention of the majority and to regard it as a sub-item 1 allocation, and therefore refers to the proposal distributed on the table of the representatives today. This is part of the agreement concluded with the Workers' Party. The last time we dealt with the Storting a number of predatory things. The measures proposed both of a short-term and long-term nature are important contributions to mitigate the level of conflict between protection interests and business and district interests. The size underlined in this context the need to take seriously the expression of fear and a reduction in the quality of life in predatory areas. I am therefore pleased that this time the majority will follow this up, and that the reconciliation between the Workers' Party and the government parties will result in more money for repressive measures in line with the vote. One of the biggest environmental challenges facing us in our country is related to radioactive emissions from the Sellafield facilities in England. The long-term impact on our coast will be serious if we do not succeed in finding a solution with the British authorities. I would therefore like to express great satisfaction with the offensive attitude that the Minister for the Environment has shown in this area. I then deal with the majority proposals in the vote, and the distributed proposal, no. 15, which is on the table of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e100	Brother Yngve Rahm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change. Before the first line change begins, the President will draw attention to the fact that each speaker has two minutes of speaking time. The President will do everything he can to ensure that the measured speaking time is observed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e107	As the representative Rahm is well aware, there are currently many dark clouds in Telemark, and especially in Grenland. Norwegian Hydro has agreed to put the magnesium factory on the island of Porsground, so this closure comes at the top of many previous major rationalization processes in the process industry. The industry in Grenland is facing major challenges, but also opportunities. One of the measures is to develop technologies for the use of natural gas in industry in an environmentally friendly way. In Grenland, there is already an environment on which one can build. Competence, research environment, raw material access and an international environment are in place. One possibility we have to develop and maintain jobs in industry is to get gas to Grenland. The Committee's position refers to the development of natural gas technologies, but I am stunned by the fact that the Christian People's Party, with the representative Rahm at the head, is confined to a short and non-binding comment and will not be supporting the Workers' Party's proposal to set up an innovation company. My question to the representative is then: What is the reason why the representative Rahm will not use this opportunity to give the border region a positive signal to further develop the industry in Grenland? Such a decision today would have turned all the pessimism into optimism, and I am only surprised that the representative Rahm could not already be involved in supporting such a proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e112	It is with wonder that I also register the recording from Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen. I feel the need to clarify that the proposal presented today by the Workers' Party, not in a single word, mentions Grenland. That is referred to in the comment, but the text of the proposal does not refer to Grenland. The same is true of our proposal, which is put into a relationship with Grenland through comments, and that is hardly the basis for doubting it. I believe that the Workers' Party's intention is to refer to Grenland, but what we do not want is to lock down already in a decision how this company should be built up, how it should work, what challenges it should face, and already lay down the framework, before the Storting has a decision-making basis. Now it's like this case as it is with transportation, that when a state is united about projects, you have the greatest chance of getting through. If it is that Sigvald Uppøen Hansen tries to create the impression of uncertainty and disagreement between the representatives of Telemark at this point, Sigvald Uppøen Hansen weakens the possibility of Grenland coming on the track, because then we no longer stand together. I don't want to be involved and take responsibility for a rhetoric that tries to create a disagreement where there is no disagreement, and with it contributes to weakening Grenland. For me, it is important to maintain a unit in this area in line with what we have agreed before, and not so much doubt about where we stand. At least it's not a contribution to a centre in Grenland.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e119	I have listened with interest to the posts of the representative, and record with amazement that the framework conditions for our perhaps most important industry, namely the oil industry, had no attention on his part. But I should not be very surprised, with the previous Bondevik government fresh in memory, who actually used cabinet questions to force through a massive increase in CO2 charges on Norwegian base, and as a result of this worsening situation for this industry. And now we see that again. The government and the Christian People's Party are focusing unilaterally on production restrictions on the base to influence the oil price, instead of doing something about the framework conditions. I would therefore ask: is not the representative of Rahm concerned about making our oil industry more robust for the fluctuations in the oil price? And is the representative Rahm and the Christian People's Party comfortable with a situation where Norway helps to increase the oil price, which is just hitting the weakest economies of these times, and then in the next round to give them crumbs from the rich in the form of increased Norwegian u-help? This must be a double morality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e126	In relation to the question from the Vaksdal whether this government is concerned with the framework conditions of the oil industry, I can answer a affirmative yes, of course we are. And the framework conditions are something for a kind of continuous assessment. However, the starting point must be to create predictability in the framework conditions allowing industry to plan and invest in a long-term perspective. We believe that we have facilitated this, but there could always be a need for adjustments to these framework conditions. I was at an interesting conference in Kristiansund yesterday, the December conference, and I recorded that the head of the Land Association of the Process Industry in his lecture made it clear that they were very pleased with the new government's will and ability to address the business situation and facilitate conditions for both the oil industry and other industries to have good framework conditions. As regards the oil price linked to the cut in production, it is clear that this is part of the assessments that the Government must make at any time during a period when the oil price is falling. This also has consequences for the world economy. That is why I have had a great deal of understanding of the decision taken by the Government to assess this, in a range of 100 000 to 200000 barrels, without the exact number of barrels being specified, and also not the time of implementation. Much of this will also depend on how Russia has reacted, which has now announced that they will also cut, at least on exports, with about a quarter. 150 000 barrels. I see that there is a dilemma in relation to the more vulnerable part of the world’s population – the weak economies, of which Waksdal was concerned. But I am convinced that the weak economies will be all the harder hit if we have a sustained long-term oil price crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e137	I think you should be careful to attack this Government for the terms of the oil industry. Unfortunately, this government has also shown that it is something they see as high, that is the conditions of that industry. And then I'm not least thinking about the Snow White field, where one actually goes in and subsidizes the company that's going to build there, with billions of dollars. One simply takes the taxpayers' income and distributes it to industry. So right there, one should be careful to criticize this government for not doing enough for the oil industry. There's also a little extra point here, and that's what I want to ask Rahm about. On March 9, 2000, the central government went off because it did not want to weaken the pollution laws, it did not want a gas plant to be built in Norway. On 1 March next year, this government will ensure that a snow-white extension plan is in place that includes a gas power plant that emits nearly one million tonnes of CO2. And that's where my question comes in: how can it be that, in as short a time as the Christian People's Party has spent changing its position, relative to Snow White actually goes in to build out gas power, which is thus a powerful unit? Is it so to understand that this does not increase emissions in Norway? Is that why one goes in for it? That was the last argument. And finally, cultural memory fund, on which the representative was in. The representative tells the Evening Post that it must be established in 2003. Why doesn't he always support SV's proposals on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e146	Hallgeir Langeland was concerned that the Christian People's Party had changed its position in relation to what we had under the central government. That's not right. But what's right is that the Christian People's Party, despite the fact that we have a majority in this room that doesn't have a primary position that is equal to ours, wants to help influence development. And it is reflected in the Sem Declaration and in the budget a desire to participate in and steer the gas power debate in a more positive and environmentally friendly direction. We have done so by putting in clear leadership on the technology development side, we have done so by saying that the future construction of gas power plants will be done with new technology, we have done so, among other things. by referring to the Snow White field that impact assessments are to be given much more emphasis in the further process. If the Christian People's Party had done as Hallgeir Langeland and SV would like to do, namely to sit on some kind of principle siding without being in majority formations that could lead the case further, we would really be equidistant. This is to take responsibility for ensuring development in a more environmentally friendly direction. It's finding compromises, majority constellations that take the necessary steps in the future, albeit not far enough, so at least in the right direction, while SV's approach would mean, from a kind of principled point of view, that here we're not going to do any of the world's things, and then there's a majority in this room that has a different opinion, and would like to put this matter into a trace we don't want. We'll take the consequences of that. Thus, our attitude to gas power in this context is that we are continuing this and premeditating a more environmentally oriented gas power debate in the future than the one we have had to. In the case of cultural memory funds, I feel no need to put pressure on my own government in terms of time, because I know the government is working seriously on this. So I have great confidence that the government will handle this without our involvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e153	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e157	The environmental challenges are major. Every day, humans contribute to pollution in nature, the air and the sea. Biodiversity is weakened, the climate is changing, nature is being destroyed, and important cultural memories are disappearing. During the spring session, Stortinget will, among other things, address issues of biodiversity, outdoor life and Norwegian climate policy. All these messages provided by the government of Stoltenberg describe how Norway can help create a better environment and reverse developments in these areas. The major environmental challenges require solutions that all contribute. Therefore, it is important that we create a greater commitment and understanding of environmental protection. Everyone has to see the value of doing their part in favour of a better environment. We can only do that if everyone, and especially more children and young people, uses nature and participates in the experiences that it can give us. That's why it's so important that we call for all-man rights and facilitate free space. That's how we can see a seed for a larger environmental exposure. Thinking globally and acting locally is not least important when talking about environmental protection. Therefore, we need to facilitate people to use their environmental exposure in the local environment. In this context, Local Agenda 21 is a good tool, and I am pleased that it has been possible, together with the government parties, to add to this item as well as to raise more money for environmental work in the municipalities. The Labour Party also stated that county municipalities should be given greater responsibility for environmental protection work, so that we can increase regional autonomy in this area as well. The fact that the Bondevik II administration now appears to be adding this process to ice does not exactly contribute to greater environmental exposure among the populace at local and regional level. I also believe it is important to highlight the important role of environmental organisations and the important work they are doing and on which we are totally dependent in order to succeed in environmental policy. The Stoltenberg government proposed an increase in the Ministry of the Environment’s budget of 9.3 p.m. in relation to the budget of the year. With the support of the Progress Party, the current government parties have adopted a budget of more than 36 million. kr lower than the final proposal of the Labour Party. It's a bad signal from a government that wants to appear like an environmental government. When a frame that was adopted was lower than we wanted, we have chosen to deal with that decision, even if we don't like it. The Labour Party has, as you know, found it right to cooperate with the Right and Christian People's Party on the distribution of the frame. This was among other things: in order to increase appropriations for some areas that were important from our point of view. The budgetary cooperation has made it possible for more items than was provided for in the additional proposal of the Bondevik II Government, and now the proposals of the Stoltenberg Government are being adopted, and of course we are pleased with that. This applies, among other things, to environmental work in the municipalities, Local Agenda 21, more to international environmental measures and national energy measures, more to NINA, more to environmental measures in the north and more to anti-terrorism measures against predators. I would also like to mention the agreement between the Workers' Party and the government parties that have been reached in the case of Folldal Gruver and the Kastefoss Museum. We believe that these should be added to the list of technical and industrial cultural memories for special follow-up, and I expect the Government to follow up on this. I would, despite our agreement, nevertheless point to some areas that come out worse than the Workers' Party would wish because the framework is getting lower. This applies primarily to the State's maps and appropriations for the purchase of free space. The state's mapping works do a very important job. Not least the digitisation of maps, both by land and by sea. After several coastal losses, with the loss of human life and major pollution, the need for new and digital charts should be made visible to all. The Stoltenberg Government proposed an increase in this area, but this was not possible with the budgetary decisions of the Government Parties and the Advance Party. It is claimed that this should not affect the increased effort of charts. We're happy about that. But it will, among other things, This means a significant delay in the development of digital maps, and that is not good. The reduction and re-priorities also lead to a lack of predictability of the Cartel and likely to lead to a lower use of resources than we could otherwise have. It is against this background that the majority of the Committee asks the Government to review the situation and return to the revised national budget for spring. We also ask that the Government return to Stortinget with a separate message about maps and spatial data. Then to the open air areas. In the view of the Workers' Party, the need for public open-air areas is great. Not least the beach sona. That's why we were giving priority to spending money on this in our budget. I think it is sad that this is not being followed up, but I am nevertheless pleased that the cooperation with the government parties has made it possible to move on other amounts in some other areas. The working party regards natural gas as an important field of activity. The Stoltenberg Government introduced the State aid scheme for infrastructure. In the budget we are adopting today, the appropriations for this purpose are being increased, and that is good. This support must be continued and strengthened in the future. In addition, there is clearly a need to develop technologies that allow the use of natural gas in an environmentally friendly way in Norway. That is why the Workers’ Party has proposed the creation of an innovation company to develop environmentally friendly technologies for the use of natural gas for different energy purposes in the budget setting. And we believe that a natural location of this company is in Grenland. I have to say that I think the argument of committee leader Rahm here was strange in terms of the Christian People's Party's point of view and position in relation to Grenland. The argument that they will not vote in favour of our proposal to set up this company in Grenland is that the word ‘Greenland’ is not included in the proposal. But I think everyone who reads the proposal and not least the text before the proposal understands that the Workers' Party wants to add it to Grenland. It is stated five times in the comments just above the proposal. It would have been interesting to know if it was such that Rahm and the Christian People's Party would have voted in favour of the proposal if the word «Greenland» stood there, in addition to being mentioned five times above. I think this is a game of words, and it is not about realities. The question is whether the government parties, including the Christian People's Party and the committee leader Rahm, are for such a company to be established in Grenland or not. I think he should answer that question and not look at whether the word 'Greenland' is mentioned in the proposal. Everyone understands that this is what the Workers' Party wants, and I cannot understand that it is possible to misunderstand it. I therefore feel that it is strange that we are alone on this proposal. Where has it been from the formulations of the Sem Declaration, and where has it become by Right-wing engagement in this area? The government has largely followed up the policies of the Stoltenberg government in the energy and environmental fields. It shows that there is so little that separates these parts in this field. The cooperation between the Workers' Party and the government parties on the energy and environmental budget also shows that. That, I believe, should serve as a basis for further cooperation in key environmental and energy issues that the Storting should address in the future. With this I will address the proposals on which the Workers' Party stands alone or together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e187	Sylvia Brustad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e192	It's very nice that in a committee there can be so much agreement on important things in Norwegian society. The gas business that the representative Sylvia Brustad was in for is an exciting thing for Norway. The hundred-year perspective is ahead of us. Not only our grandchildren, but at least my great-grandchildren, will certainly still be able to enjoy what we now decide about an environmentally friendly use of the gas resources we have. Then we disagree a little bit about the beach zones, even though the government also says that we want to secure the beach zones. We don't want to go any further. But there are also very small differences. I think it is important on this day not to focus primarily on what we disagree about, but on what we agree on. I have to take some of the blame for the fact that ‘Greenland’ does not contain capital letters in this document. It's not because I don't think Grenland is a very good place to locate such a company, but we've said in our statement that you want to set up a company -- it's a little undetermined whether it should be one, two or three -- and we've thought it's important to see this in context when the gas message comes and see where it's most rational and most right to place these, possibly, more companies. But I think it's indisputable that in the Grenland area, there's a lot of good reasons to put at least one of these companies there, because you have skills, you have technology, and you need to get a new one. So it's not going to be on us if you figure this out in the gas message as one of the good alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e201	I choose to interpret the representative of Onarheim as saying that if the Government makes a proposal to add it to Grenland, the Right will vote in favour of that proposal. The interesting thing is what the government intends to propose. We'll ask the Council of State a little bit later. Today, when I have expressed some wonder on behalf of the Workers' Party – as we have also stated in the vote – that we find it strange that no more can be in favour of the proposal today, it is because, with regard to the use of natural gas, which is a huge potential to make more of domestic and not just export, it has now been doing thorough preparatory work in cooperation with the social partners, not least in the Grenland area for a long time. We all know that Norway's largest industrial concentration is in Grenland. We know that there is a lot of knowledge and competence. We also know that Grenland is now in a special situation. We know that parts of our industry are in a difficult situation. Then it is all the more important that we be able to focus on forward-looking solutions. I believe that it is urgent to take decisions to get this process going. Then I was wondering if I could see that the government decided to await the gas message. I believe that this is done so thoroughly, over such a long time, that there should be no doubt that such a company should be set up, and that it should be added to Grenland. But as I said, I hope what Onarheim now said, means that the Right is also that such a company should be established in Grenland.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e208	As a politician, I have, and probably many with me, experienced that maps and terrain do not match. The representative Brustad was in his intervention concerned with the situation of the State Cartwork and the problems of the Government and the Workers' Party have jointly imposed on this company by cutting 38 million. kr. The strangest thing is, as it appeared by the representative Brustad's posts, that it is the responsibility of the Progress Party that the government parties and the Workers' Party cut 38 million. kr on the Cartwork budget. For the Advancement Party, cutting as much as this is about is absolutely unimaginable, because it will cause major problems for the Cartwork. I find it strange and irresponsible that the government parties and the Workers' Party are using one company to take the entire financial burden of getting the budget to go together. It is particularly strange when the same batches are aware that this has such serious consequences that there is a need to get back to the situation in the Cartwork in the context of the revised national budget. I see with great concern the fury to which the government parties and the Workers' Party are adding up here. For me, why a reduction in the framework cannot be taken over by other items is totally incomprehensible. The party has always been concerned that businesses and businesses should have the most stable framework conditions, including state enterprises. With a cut of $38 million. kr will clearly have consequences in terms of downsizing for the Cartwork and also loss of competence. Why will the representative Brustad use only one company as a balancing item to bring the budget together, and is the Workers' Party aware of the consequences of this with regard to the downsizing and loss of the necessary skills and production?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e217	I think I would have been a little cautious about asking questions about whether maps and terrain vote in relation to the Workers' Party if I had represented the Progress Party, and especially if I had represented the Progress Party that has ensured that it is the government parties' budget framework that is adopted and not the Labour Party's budget. For this matter concerning the Cartwork, it would have been resolved if the Advance Party had voted in favour of the framework proposed by the Stoltenberg Government, which was then higher, and we could avoid cutting the allocations to the Cartwork. Of course, I'm as concerned as the Advance Party for the cut that is now happening in relation to the Cartwork. We are not pleased with that, and that is the background for asking the Government to come back with a proper review of this in the revised national budget, and that we should get a separate big message on this. But we have therefore chosen to deal with the framework that the Progress Party has ensured was lower than we wanted, and to try to achieve a policy within that area. And we haven't found any other areas of the environmental budget where we would cut as much money as the Progress Party would easily do in areas that will lead to poorer environmental protection work around our country. That's what's the difference. But, as I said, maps and terrain would have voted better if the Progress Party had voted in favour of the budget proposals of the Stoltenberg government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e228	I would like to say a few words about a matter which I will come back to in my contribution, but it is tempting to ask the representative of the Workers' Party what lies behind the enormous commitment to the natural gas bet in Trøndelag, which is reflected in the budget. The fact that the Workers' Party has operated and still operates a raw drive to get built conventional, highly polluting gas power plants is nothing new, but the matter seems to be reaching new heights. In the Committee, the Workers' Party, together with the Advance Party, is in favour of State subsidising the gas pipeline to Forest. They are not prepared to await thorough and serious treatment of the land-based use of natural gas in this room in connection with the Landfill Communication announced by the Ministry. No, here it is urgent, because industrial power has already ordered the steel for the pipeline, and now they need a government contribution to pay the bill. And former oil and energy minister Olav Aksensen has been out in the media and the Council of the Cooperation Government to take a talk with the management of Statoil to get a lower price on the gas. In view of this, it may be reasonable to assume that Akssen is one of the selected wholesalers who have received a letter from Industriekraft inviting Statoil to give Industrialkraft a gas price they believe can defend the project. In Trøndelag, a solid air lock has been built, and Industriekraft Mid-Norway seems to have been pretty desperate. Although they have been granted a concession, they have problems with profitability, and my question to the Workers' Party is therefore: How far are you willing to go to light up this airlock? How many billions in public is the Labour Party willing to throw through the window in terms of both state subsidies and regional food for the project that is likely to never see the light of day?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e237	Whether this project wants to see the light of the day or not, it is up to this venue to decide. I am not surprised by SV's position on this matter. It's not new either, but I'm taking away from the descriptions that were given here by what we stand for, and what we go for. What we're experiencing is that there's a need to exploit the gas. It also applies in Middle Norway. I must also say that I think it makes sense the advice that Olav Akselsen has given to the Government to take a talk with Statoil in relation to price. I also believe that we, who are responsible for what this should look like at the end, should decide whether we believe that this should become a reality or not become a reality. If we believe it is important to use the gas in that part of the country as well, then we believe – and the Progress Party also believes – that there is a need for state co-financing. Now, what we're experiencing is that after the new government joined, there's been a ambiguity about this. This is something supported by the trade union movement in these countries and in Norway. The main business organisation supports it, and it has been a broad political commitment around it for a long time. We believe it is unfortunate that, after the new government's accession, there is now uncertainty about such an important project. It is, of course, absolutely impossible for us to decide, through a budgetary position, how much money is going to be collected. It requires serious treatment where the Government has to come to the Storting with a proposal, and we cannot, of course, adopt it through proposals or comments in the vote. But I find it strange that the government parties are defensive in this area as well, refer to a gas message and are not willing to give any positive signals in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e248	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e251	The work on framework areas 12, oil and energy, and the 13, environment, have been marked by openness and strong willingness to identify areas where the parties can agree. Nevertheless, it is natural for this debate in the Grand Chamber to make it clear that there is political disagreement. However, it is gratifying that the number of committees, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, with a few adjustments, which in total amount to no more than about approx. $12 million. kr, has joined the draft budget of the departments. In order to have a balanced budget that can help bring down the strangely high level of interest rates, it is a pity that some budget lines have to be cut. For the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy made a significant contribution to the government's mapping. The Committee has not changed this, but asks, and expects, for the Ministry to come back with a broad assessment of the State's mapping work in the context of the revised national budget for 2002. This applies to both organisation and resource use. When it comes to the environmental budget, I would just like to say in and out to the representative, Brustad, that there is an increase of 6 million. The other items are shown in relation to the first draft budget. It has been important for the right-wing members of the Committee to have two thoughts in mind at the same time: on the one hand, an offensive energy policy with high oil and gas extraction from established fields, the announcement of new exploration areas that can create a level playing field for developers and suppliers, and the approval of extraction plans for new fields; and, on the other hand, an offensive environmental policy based on sustainable development and good resource management. The pluralisation of the Committee offers good opportunities for success. The number of committees points to the department's willingness to increase the investment in natural gas. However, there is no need to hide that the desire to increase the use of natural gas, in particular the production of electricity, not only offers great opportunities for increased energy supply and new industrial development, but also concerns, because the use of gas for electricity, with the best technology available today, leads to large emissions of CO2. While it is still such that gas power can reduce emissions from far more polluting energy sources out in Europe, it is desirable to find even better technologies for the generation of electricity from gas to enable some of the requirements of the Kyoto Agreement to be met. The budget therefore contains increased appropriations for intensified research at nearly CO2-free gas power plants. If we succeed here, it could provide a significant boost to our technological competence in the use of gas for electricity also internationally, and it could ensure our energy balance even this year with low rainfall. It is also a major task and challenge to bring natural gas into the population centres with a view to more direct use of natural gas for industrial purposes and for household use. This is very positive both from an environmental point of view and from an environmental point of view. Extensive use of natural gas for such purposes will require large investments in infrastructure in the years to come, and the Government has announced that it will return to this in the announced gas message. Several interesting options for alternative pipetraces have been introduced into the debate. In the context of the plans for the exploitation of gas in the Barents Sea, the majority of the Committee agrees that full-year petroleum activities in the Barents Sea are to be assessed accordingly. The majority of the Committee has provided that the investigation can be carried out quickly and thus does not create delays, inter alia. in progress of the Snow White project, an exciting project with great positive ring-effects for our northernmost part of the country. It is gratifying that the budget devotes considerable resources to the development of renewable energy sources such as wind, solar and bioenergy. In this context, it is important that research funding is also allocated to the development of hydrogen as an important future energy carrier. There are many threats to our environment that require great attention, and we need concrete action plans. The Minister for the Environment has raised these issues on the agenda. The majority of the Committee has concluded on the increased commitment of non-governmental organisations to environmental protection and the emphasis on local involvement. The majority of the Committee also points in particular to the means of increased liming of fish water, PCB remediation and increased radioactive monitoring. Finally, let me point to another point in the setting that I think is very positive: the increased emphasis on health, the environment and safety on the socket. It is important that oil companies put this high on the agenda. The goal of zero damage is important here. In its first few weeks, the Co-operation Board has shown that it is taking economic value creation seriously in our country, while clarifying that this is to be done within an offensive environmental and resource policy. This has been followed up by the Government in this budget. The right-wing members of the Committee fully agree with these priorities and are pleased that the majority of the Committee ensures that the budget is mainly adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e279	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e283	It's, as the representative Sylvia Brustad pointed out, a lot of activity in both the North and South Tributes to make use of natural gas. It is therefore a disappointment that it is only the Workers' Party and the Advance Party that support infrastructure. To the evening post today, Leif Frode Onarheim says that the criticism of the Right is strongly exaggerated. However, he underlines what is stated in the Sem Declaration, saying the following: ‘In the Sem Declaration, we say that the State should only be involved in paying extra costs for projects beyond the pipeline to the gas power plant in Forest, i.e. for analyses to other places in the region. We still mean that, but per. today, no such specific projects»; There is now a prior notification of branch pipes to Trondheim, and the hearings are in the final phase. Orkdal and Verdal will be here later. Firstly, it does not help if a desired branch pipe is not large enough. There is therefore considerable uncertainty about the Right's position on such a gigantic industrial project, as we believe, by the fact that the Right does not agree with the comment. Can the representative of Onarheim remove that uncertainty by confirming that the Government will support the realisation of the thermal power plant and the industrial development of that region? And if the representative Onarheim doesn't see that when the Forest Project is due to be realised from the fall of 2002, could it be too long to wait for the message about natural gas?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e293	I hope no one in this room is in doubt about my commitment to business development and industrial development. Nevertheless, it is important for a new representative – a first travel guy – to look at what the Sem Declaration says about this. I feel safe when I say, as the Sem statement says, that the state is willing to participate in financing pipes beyond the pipeline to the gas power plant, i.e. branches for other purposes. This is what we are standing by. When I am a little hesitant about this in the evening post, it's because we don't have this clear yet – the hearing opinions aren't inside, you don't have a clear idea of how to do this to Verdal and Orkanger. It is important to put this in place before looking at the need for a dimensional increase in pipes, which may be contributed by the State. But it is clear that if the pipe is to enter the gas power plant alone, the state will not participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e300	The party of progress promoted a Document No at the beginning of the previous ageing period. 8-proposals where we asked the Government to facilitate the operation of a gas power plant in the Forest of Northern Trøndelag. The right did not support this proposal, but stated then – and later, and Onarheim has confirmed this to a large extent today – that they were so positive about this project and other similar projects. Now, however, it seems that there is a little difference between life and learning in the Right in relation to what we read in the setting, and what is being said from this pulpit. The Workers' Party and the Advance Party say in their joint comments that we have understood it so that the Sem-Declaration opens up the possibility for the State to help cover the additional costs due to increased capacity in the Forest Pipe. The reason for these capacity extensions is planned industrial projects in the Orkanger-Verdal region. My question is, what is the reason why the Right now is not involved in this positive interpretation? Has a completely changed policy in this area? And further, why would the Right today vote against opening up private capital in State power, and in addition vote against selling out the commercial part of the State's mapping? This was the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party were united before the Right came into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e309	I repeat what I said in my previous reply. I don't think we've changed politics. It could be nuances. It's obvious in this room that when a party is going to cooperate with two other parties on a government formation, it's going to be a little bit daunting and giving. That we may have moved something in a different direction than the representative that Vaksdal wants, I do not overlook. But the thing that stands out is that we checked out what you meant when you negotiated at Sem. We feel that we are on a safe basis in relation to the Sem declaration, that the interpretation is such that on the day when there are clear plans for a distribution into other uses of natural gas, the State will be able to assess participation. This will also be further explained in the gas message. In the case of Statkraft, it's a pretty complicated case. I'm not opposed to the idea of privatization, that you think you can get other capital into Statkraft, but it has many sides to it, and I think it has to be investigated very thoroughly before you take the step. As far as the Cartwork is concerned, I believe we have a good opportunity to look at it when the Minister for the Environment comes back to this issue in the context of the revised national budget. You have to look at the whole organization, where it's important to have the state inside as owner, and what could be separated and become a business unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e318	The representative Onarheim said in a previous reply that he was busy with his children and grandchildren. If he does not care about the Progress Party and his Workers' Party for more pollution, he will pay more attention to his children and grandchildren. He will then pursue an environmental policy that is consistent with the needs of children and grandchildren, not with short-term coverage among some voters. I urge the representative to continue. And yet I would like to point out a problem that the Sem statement provides. There will simply be 0.9 million tonnes of CO2 emitted as a result of the development of Snow White, only from the gas power plant. The Minister for the Environment says that Norway should be offensive when it comes to national action in relation to climate policy. This gives Right and Onarheim a problem, because compared to the climate message, they simply start off with a high bill – which will cost to get CO2 out. Thus, the question to the representative Onarheim is: who will pay for the additional emissions that this gas power plant on Snow White will bring with it? Is it the car list, or is it the industry? Because it's going to be a bill. Finally, I'm surprised that Onarheim comes into health, environment and safety in the North Sea, while the Cooperation Administration does not make a proposal to strengthen control and oversight functions, but it may mean that he has changed his mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e327	I would like to remind the representative of Langeland that I said 'old child' in fact, because I am so old! But it's important to be careful, I agree with the representative of Langeland on that. It's important not only to have something to live for, but also to have something to live for in this country, and it's important that we take care of the natural resources that we have. We have an obligation, not only from a national perspective, but also from an international perspective, to ensure that we can get this out properly, that we can really extract, and that this can contribute to nutrient development both in Norway and elsewhere. I feel that here we are in a situation where we have to think two thoughts at once. We also have to make sure that we get a natural and good economic development nationally and internationally. In the case of Snow White, it remains to be seen what that development will be like. So it has to be an impact assessment. We have said that it must not be delayed. It must not be such that it takes both winter and spring. With today's technology, there is no pollution, but emissions of CO2 are worrying. I agree. But here it's a question of how to manage to also give the northern parts of our country some opportunities to evolve. There has been a lot of progress here in terms of Forest and Grenland, and it's important, but it's certainly no less important that there may also be some optimistic tones for those who live up there in the north, and who need to get a push to become more industrialized, become more commercialized and see that here there are opportunities also in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e336	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e339	Norway today appears to be an energy storm power, and we are among the leading nations in both the production and export of energy. Today we produce nearly 3,000 TWh in the form of power, oil and gas, and we can only use 6-7 pst. of this itself. There is therefore no shortage of energy in Norway, but unfortunately there has been a lack of political power to use a little more of the huge energy resources we have, to value domestically. The Progress Party believes that this energy resource must benefit the Norwegian people and the Norwegian business community. We also believe that there should be free competition between the different forms of energy sources, without any public subsidy. We also do not want to spend taxpayers' money on other measures aimed at changing energy consumption, nor do we want to use taxes to change or reduce consumption. The Progress Party distances itself from the policy pursued by a country that almost floods with energy to subsidise, for example, windmills, which in many cases also lead to visual smelting. These projects will not be on their own economic level in the foreseeable future, nor will they contribute significantly to meeting demand. It has been a myth over many years that in Norway there are some major wasters of energy. Of course, this isn't right. Several studies show that in Norwegian households we do not have more energy consumption than in other countries with which we normally compare. And we must also bear in mind that access to large quantities of energy and power at competitive prices has played a crucial role in industrial travel, value creation and wealth development across the whole country through large parts of the last century. Over the last few years, we have seen a development with a merger or acquisition of smaller power companies to larger and more robust companies. This trend has been largely positive. However, we must be on guard if companies become so large and dominant that they come closer to a monopoly situation. What is now happening to the state's own company, Statkraft, is a cause for concern. After the large majority of our company added a total of 16 billion kroner in the form of capital grants and increased loan and guarantee frameworks, the company is now in the process of gaining so much market power that this will impede competition in the market. And these are the consumers who finally have to starve at. So to the oil sector. The oil industry is one of our most important industries, which for many years has brought large incomes to the country. There is also good reason to believe that we will benefit from large oil and gas revenues for decades to come. However, it is important that we constantly focus on the framework conditions of this important industry and ensure long-term and predictability, so that we are better equipped to fall in oil prices, which we have had recently. The last time we had a sharp fall in oil prices, this meant that a number of extensions on the base were exposed or scraped. This particularly hit the supplier industry with both redundancies and lay-offs, and unfortunately also fragmentation of the environments of competence that had taken decades to build up. The last time we had a fall in oil prices, we got clear signals from both the players on the base, the shipping companies, the supplier industry and the trade unions. Remove the gross taxes, they said. However, very little was done, and when we again got an increase in the oil price, everything was of course forgotten. We have now again been through a time of lower oil prices, and unfortunately, we see that the government and the majority of the population are unilaterally focusing on production restrictions in order to try to push up the oil price. And again, unfortunately, nothing is done to make the industry better rusty against these fluctuations. The Progress Party believes that we need to improve conditions for the exploitation of our gas resources in society in general, as well as for power generation. We are therefore looking forward to addressing the overall strategy for the use of natural gas in Norway that the Government is taking part in the spring session. We have increased the natural gas entry by 20 million in our alternative budget. kr to expand natural gas infrastructure. We have also proposed a research fund of DKK 10 billion. This return shall be directed towards technological research in order to improve the degree of extraction, the economy and the safety of the continental shelf, as well as other relevant energy research projects. We have also proposed this time a sharp increase in the post for liming our watercourses, but unfortunately this has not been implemented. In the budget framework adopted by the Storting, the financial framework in the framework areas 12 and 13 are, in our opinion, far too high. But this year, as in the previous two years, we will not present alternative proposals within these new frameworks, as this will destroy the overall budget profile we have set. However, we will refer to the alternative state budget of the Advance Party within the framework areas 12 and 13 as reflected in the vote. I would like to take up with this the proposals No. 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e371	The representative has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e376	In recent years, the Progress Party has had a political project that has become more and more clear. One has wanted to be included in the heat, one has wanted to be accepted as a politically serious party. As far as environmental policy is concerned, the Progress Party still chooses to place itself on the page. At the latest in the short debate that followed the Minister of Environment's statement on the climate negotiations in Marrakech, the Progress Party marked itself in writing off the climate problem despite the recent UN Climate Panel's finding that the temperature of the earth is rising and that we are facing a man-made problem. For safety reasons, the Progress Party in this budget proposes to cut the environmental research and monitoring appropriations by over 80 million. kr. So this is where you want to close your eyes. You don't want to know. And then I'm going to ask, how does the Progress Party think that this is compatible with the ambitions of becoming a serious party?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e385	In our opinion, there is a difference between environmental policy and hysteria. We have expressed our views on the Intergovernmental Panel many times from this speaker, and clearly from the fact that we are not partying to what they have concluded. Even among the researchers who accept what the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has come up with, it is also clear that the consequence of this is very unclear. Someone's talking about pretty small consequences, someone's talking about very big consequences. But now, after the last meeting in Marrakech, we are recording that the whole Kyoto agreement is getting closer to a more and more pure trade agreement, which some countries are enjoying very well, and they are very hard on getting this through.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e393	There are things that seem strange to me in the logic of the Advance Party's energy and environmental policy. The representative Vaksdal was up here talking about how important it was with free competition between the different forms of energy, and that there should be no kind of subsidies. In my mind, it is in stark contrast to what the Progress Party itself says in the budget position, that they want to use economic instruments to support the development of natural gas infrastructure, and want to increase the allocation by 20 million. kr. Isn't there a flaw in the logic here? In their speech, they also appear to be voluntary workers’ support players and praise their efforts in different contexts. Within the environmental chapter, this applies as part of why more liming is needed. It's read: ‘The need for means of liming is far greater than that currently granted. These members will try to achieve the objective set out in the plan of action for liming. These members refer to the great effort of volunteers who, over many years, spend a great deal of their spare time saving water and rivers to secure fish stocks, thereby giving people the opportunity to fish for sport and to experience living nature.’» In krona, the Progress Party proposes a total of 21.8 million. more than the cooperative government under grants for liming and local fishing purposes. My question to the Progress Party will be as follows: The post of non-governmental organisations has been proposed cut by 23.5 million. kr. Is their support to voluntary organisations only applicable in cases where the Progress Party itself feels comfortable with the objective of volunteering, or is it such that the party has a special preference for sport fishing?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e405	To take first, this with free competition between energy sources. It's true, as the representative Meling says, that we've gone in to increase the number of posts for infrastructure. We have to bear in mind that for many years, the public has contributed infrastructure in terms of electricity. Everyone has a wire stump that goes into their house. Now I don't know if we're going to have a goal that everyone should have a gas pipeline into their house, but this goes on the infrastructure and not on the energy sources. It has to be clear. So to this with the liming of watercourses that has been a priority matter for the Progress Party for many years. We have, as it was quite rightly claimed, increased that entry to 120 million. kr. And then I get questions about non-governmental organisations, which of course we cut, which are absolutely right. With regard to non-governmental organisations, I would like to take a look at the English designation of non-governmental organisations. In Norway, we have it so that the so-called non-government organisations are almost bought and paid by the public, and they do not become non-government organisations. They're going to be government organizations, and that's why we're cutting so hard here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e412	I want to drill a little further in the representative Siri A. Meling took up, and I don't think the representative Vaksdal gave a good answer. In the budget paper, the Progress Party has made clear, as mentioned above, strong principles of public subsidisation of energy production. They believe that there should be free competition between the various forms of energy carriers without any form of subsidisation, nor will they use taxpayers’ money for other measures aimed at changing energy consumption. In this context, it is very tempting to ask how the Progress Party defines natural gas. Does the Progress Party believe that natural gas is an energy carrier? In that case, we are very interested to hear more about why they were then under attack. 1825, natural gas, wants to increase the allocation of infrastructure by 20 million. kr more than the wishes of the members of the budget, the parties to the Government and the Workers' Party. In the introductory notes of the Progress Party: ‘Reports and statistics clearly show that in Norway there is no higher energy consumption in households than in other countries with which we normally compare.’ This is correct in itself, but the fact that others are equally bad is rarely a good excuse. What distinguishes us from many other countries is that a disproportionate share of energy consumption in households is direct electricity. Here we are in an undisputed first place – no one over, no one next to it. The problem, of course, is that this involves a crazy waste with a valuable resource that could have been used in a much better way. I want to compare using direct electricity for heating with firing on the fireplace with mahogany: you get heat, but there is no particular good use of mahogany. My question is therefore as follows: Does not the Progress Party see the need to support the conversion of energy consumption towards more water-borne heating? This is also infrastructure. Or is the truth that the only advance party interested in using taxpayers' money is subsidising polluting gas power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e428	I think the President will remember the time of the speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e431	I have to repeat what I said in my answer to the previous line. As far as subsidisation is concerned, we do not subsidise energy production, but we are involved in helping to develop infrastructure. Now it has to be clear in this room. Then the representative Vaggen Malvik is concerned that a large proportion of our energy use is electricity. I had almost said, 'So what?' That's the purest and finest form of energy we have. Why in the world should not the Nordics, Norwegian citizens and Norwegian industry benefit from the enormous resources we have, precisely to compensate for our living in a cold country?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e438	So the chord change is over. The President has a question for the representative, Mr Vaksdal. It concerns proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Is it to understand, then, that the representative should have addressed this proposal? Or is anyone else going to take it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e443	Someone else is going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e450	Then I can start with what the president ends with, and take up the proposals that SV has on its own, and the proposals that SV is part of. Then it's done. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that SV will vote against the 13. So it's done too. In its draft budget, SV has proposed that Norway should have an offensive energy, climate and environmental policy. By cutting, among others at the pace of investment on a Norwegian base, we take care of the need to support an activity that is more stable and long-term and – not least – environmentally friendly. But we also take care of the safety of the workers on the Norwegian pedestal, such as those on the Norwegian pedestal. Onarheim was busy. At the same time, these funds release a commitment to the new renewable alternatives and provide an offensive commitment to research and development of the options that can reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. Bondevik I left on March 9, 2000. The reason was that the Right Party and the Workers' Party were pressing for the construction of highly impurising gas power plants. There was too much for the Christian People’s Party to be able to sit in government when it was to be built. It was said that the environment was so important to the government that it was impossible to govern while someone started the construction of highly impurifying gas power plants. But what happens? Well, in the election campaign, we hear about the central government's heroic efforts against gas power and how important it is to fight against highly impurising gas power plants during the next collapse period. But then the government shift comes. Then Bondevik suddenly becomes an engineer and Steensnæs contractor for precisely strong impurity gas power plants, gas power plants that release 0.9 million. tonnes of CO2 in the year! And not enough with that. In order to bring about the highly impudent gas power plant, taxpayers have to pay for it! Bondevik II shall subsidise Snow White and the construction of the gas power plant by up to NOK 2 billion. Compared, the government is investing 470 million. kr on the Energy Fund, which will be used for new renewable energy sources. That means that Bondevik II is investing SEK 1.5 billion more in the development of Snow White and the construction of highly impuritying gas power plants than in the alternatives to the climate problems that we have to deal with, according to the Minister for the Environment. One would like to talk about leading the var-principle, but talk about solving the principle, talk about what has happened to the Christian People's Party from Bondevik I to Bondevik II! On March 9, 2000, Bondevik I left. On 9 March two years later, it is intended that Bondevik II should lay the foundation for the development of highly impurising and state-subsidised gas power plants. There may be reason to have some understanding for those who have problems understanding what has happened so soon after the election, as the Christian People's Party has changed its position on this question. There is reason to recall that the Cooperative Government can seek cooperation with other parties, for example: with the environmental party SV. SV has just received a large group, among others. on environmental issues, and of course we are interested in cooperating with all the good forces that can improve the environment and that can address climate problems. Even today, Sem-mates offer a proposal, i.e. a proposal to follow the policy they have outlined in the Sem-Declaration that they should follow. There is a proposal submitted by SV. We ask the Government to end its own policy. With this, the Government is invited to vote for its own policy by supporting SV's proposal No. Eight. For what is stated in the Sem Declaration – and it is very positive there – is, for example: ‘Cooperation governance will pursue an offensive environmental and resource policy based on the sustainable development objective’. That's great! It also states that ‘the precautionary principle, the polluter pays principle and the natural limit of tolerance are used for the practical policy to be pursued’. That sounds great. I fully support that. But what is happening in practical policy? Well, the principle disappeared. The Minister for the Environment talks about the principle and shows a great effort outside the country, and announces an offensive climate policy and a marine environmental message at home. At the same time, the Minister for Oil and Energy is ready to make the climate policy a challenge in relation to Snow White and the development of highly impurising gas power plants. The practical policy must follow the precautionary principle. Yes, yes – well, at least it sounds nice, but the practical policy is not there. SV is ready to join the Cooperation Agency in clearing up the problems they have in understanding their own policies, just by joining a number of them if you want to pursue an offensive environmental policy. So based on the Sem statement, there could be some optimism. But then one comes to Stortinget, and to get caught, the Progress Party is cutting one of the environmental protection budgets, so that the minimal increase that the Minister of Environment had given to the environmental protection budget disappears in a very tight cut. I'm sorry. A cut in the Staten's 38-million-dollar map. kr. The fact that the Labour Party in the Committee accepts this seems to me to be very regrettable. Because before that, the Labour Party and SV wanted a strong public sector, and we wanted an emphasis on professional justice. Therefore, one should have discussed this matter, among other things. with those added before one took the grip that was done in the budget. SV cannot accept that environmental questions lose as much as they do in the budget. The size has e.g. repeatedly decided to invest more in the conservation of our wild stocks by investing in research, the fight against gyro and liming. Today, appropriations are being reduced. We know that fishing for wild species represents large values, and not least represents those jobs in the districts. In the Sem statement we can also read about the government's serious concern about the fallacy, but this is not followed up. The plans for a holistic water environment, which was about a mass formation, do not get the strength they need. On the contrary, a year in Aktion Jærvastre will be cut before it will be evaluated. So destroy one for some of the hard work that has been behind that project. We see the same thing when it comes to Lake Vanity, where SV and Right went to the front to raise the problem. It doesn't follow up either. Another example is the Cultural Memory Fund, which many people have been involved in. I cannot understand, when the leader of the committee says that the last time-limit for this to be operational is 2003, that it is not possible to make it clear today. But now we get to hear what the Minister for the Environment says. In addition, we have failed in relation to the voluntary organisations, on which emphasis is placed, and Local Agenda 21. Finally, I would just like to say that SV is satisfied that several parties consider it important that one do something to strengthen the security of the Norwegian socket. But we are very unhappy that not the Right and Cooperation Administration can support the proposal SV has on this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e500	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e505	Now the representative Langeland managed what he was probably looking for, namely to tease the Workers' Party so that we would take a line on SV in this debate. But when the representative Langeland disagrees with the Workers' Party for what has happened with the Staten Kartverk and suggests that we are no longer engaged in a strong public sector, I must protest. For under the budgetary rules of the Storting, we must work together on a budget, and if we are to achieve results, we must deal with the framework that exists. We didn't see any other items that we thought would do that big cut. SV has an expressed desire to be in government and to be a serious party, a party that achieves something in negotiations and results in Stortinget. Then I would like to ask the representative Langeland where he would have cut if he were to deal with such a bet within the framework. Would he have cut the appropriations for the environmental research institutes? Would he have cut environmental protection measures in the northern regions? Would he have cut off Local Agenda 21? Would he have cut off support for organizations? Where would the representative Langeland have found such a cut? It would be nice if he would have responded to it before he went out with such accusations in a big debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e518	This is not meant as debt or as an expression of my wish to dissociate the Workers' Party, as the representative Kollevoll said. I only note that the premises made in the negotiations on the State Budget, where the Cooperation Government, or Bondevik II, tried to win the Advance Party by cutting the Cartwork, accepted the Workers' Party in the next round. And I thought one did it for buttons and slides, as we say in Stavanger, that's too little. If SV had entered into a compromise with the Swedish Ministry of the Environment on its budget, I think we could have moved a lot more money than what was done. However, I believe that one of them must have gone in and looked at what one should have cut in. That's what we in SV do, for example. in the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy; we cut a part of the operation where we think it is defenceworthy, and where we know that it is possible to do so in cooperation with trade unionists. The answer to this is short and straightforward: SV is of course busy getting in position to get a proper environmental policy. We are not busy being in a budget without having that policy realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e527	Actually, I wanted to respond to the line that Synnøve Konglevoll came with, but I will not do so, in compliance with the regulations. A significant part of unnecessary pollution in Norway is due to emissions from other countries. SV is one of many parties that has been a driver of the Kyoto agreement. The SV's justification has been that anthropogenic CO2 emissions are pollution and that there must be international legal legislation with obligations and penalties for those countries that break this legislation. The fact that the Kyoto agreement imposes a different financial burden on some countries, I should like to leave it at this stage. Our marine areas are exposed to pollution from Sellafield that can directly affect the export of fish and seafood, which will have a significant economic impact on Norway. The Sellafield emissions of technetium are one of the most frightening environmental hazards we face here to land. The main problem with this type of pollution is that it is almost not an international regulation and that the small legislation that is is too weak. I think Ireland's fight against the Sellafield emissions and the lack of impact make it visible in a good way, where the International Court of Justice of the Sea rejects Ireland's demands. In our view, the need to have a legally sound regulatory framework is quite obvious. Why will SV not support our proposal, proposal No. 12, on the establishment of a separate International Environmental Special Court, governed by the International Court of Justice in The Hague?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e538	I wondered for a while if the Progress Party had joined the issue of the climate agreement after one had followed the negotiations closely in Marrakech, but it was not clear if one had done so – at least not in this article. So I'm still keeping this question open. In the case of Sellafield, it is clear that, among other things: Its right-wing Minister for the Environment has been there to raise this issue nationally and internationally. This is not at least appreciated, because it is a matter that we ourselves have been working on for decades, also linked to Halden, which the Minister for the Environment will probably come up with. For SV's part, we are very concerned about having international legislation in relation to the environment. That's absolutely right. That is why we have the International Court of Justice of the Sea. We also work to enable the UN to establish systems for environmental and environmental pollution – absolutely an important point. The grip that the Progress Party has can be a grip, but I think the best grip is to have Norway under the UN, which I see, among other things. the Minister for Environmental Protection is working on these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e550	After hearing the intervention by the representative, Mr Langeland, I have the following questions and comments: how would the intervention by the representative have been if the co-operation administration and the committee had not increased the budget chapter for environmental measures by approx. One hundred million. In relation to the government Stoltenberg's proposal? Would it be possible to have an even more negative post? The Bondevik II Government and the Committee have increased the scope for investing in renewable energy sources, energy research, energy savings – including Enova’s working conditions, which are now to take on a real challenge – and public transport. I can also mention: increasing the licensing of watercourses, of cultural memory protection and of radioactive monitoring – which may result in the ultimate elimination of life-threatening emissions from Sellafield – measures against PCB pollution and the support of voluntary environmental organisations, which are making an impressive effort. The latter is an invitation to joint efforts in the field of environmental exposure – environmental considerations need to be streamlined through procedural procedures and actions in both the public and private sectors. And what's the positive is that it's a good one, and that's a right investment. Hasn't SV, which has a strong environmental exposure, discovered the strengthening of the environmental profile in the budget? The representative of Langeland has focused heavily on gas power plants. Yes, we need to reduce harmful emissions using natural gas. That's exactly what the Bondevik II government is about to do. That's exactly what's the main point. One should reduce CO2 emissions. CO2, which is a problem, can be an important resource in the manufacture of fish feed. And then we should stick together about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e559	It is obvious that the representative Lioness felt that SV’s criticism of the cooperation administration was a bit strong. But when one sits in government, one must unfortunately find that there are others who think they have a better environmental policy and climate policy than what is possible for this government to come forward. It must be allowed to point out. Then I just have to admit that if you're going to have a proper climate policy, you don't start building Snow White, by building a highly impure gas power plant that emits 0.9 million. tonnes of CO2. I can't joke about it. I have to point out that it was something that the Christian People's Party very shortly ago opposed. That one, in cooperation with the Right, negotiates to build this, is the Christian People's Party's responsibility and not its SV. So I'm going to have to say that when it's said that it's going to be plus 100 million. kr, it is possible that it is right with respect to some budget at some point, but what happened now was that the Ministry of the Environment got a plus 6 million. kr, e.g. to liming, in relation to the Stoltenberg Government’s proposal. So there was a lot of action, which the Christian People's Party and the SV might have become a few about was important when the Christian People's Party did not put in government, which was not prioritised – among others. in Hordaland, where an important industrial culture memory in Tyssedal doesn't get the money they need to ensure a proper rehabilitation. I could mention liming, I could mention bet on Local Agenda 21 and volunteer organizations. A lot of measures don't get a satisfactory follow-up. But come on, next round!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e568	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e571	The focus of the centre is to pursue an environmental policy based on the principle of sustainable development. This requires the management of ecosystems and ecological circuits. Some environmental damage will be irreversible. Therefore, emphasis must be placed on the precautionary principle and nature's limit of tolerance in the formulation of environmental policy. The centre party therefore believes it is important that we have to have an impact assessment of the petroleum activity in the northern regions. New information from the Institute of Marine Research suggests, inter alia: that production water has a much more negative impact on marine life than we have previously believed. Therefore, we need a thorough impact assessment of the petroleum activity in the northern regions and a thorough assessment and debate on such an analysis. So there are very vulnerable and very resource-rich seas. It is therefore difficult to understand that the majority, the government parties and the Workers' Party, in the budgetary position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, have stressed that an impact assessment of the petroleum activity in the northern regions must not ‘create delays in natural propulsion’. As a result, it is in the air if the government parties and the Workers' Party really want to take such an impact assessment seriously. It seems that the majority believe it should be expanded, regardless of the conclusions of the impact assessment. The centre party thinks it's unfortunate. The centre party wants to give priority to some of the specific challenges facing the districts, and I will mention three areas: The centre party believes that the electricity price should be as similar as possible throughout the country. Had we been able to get through to reduce the transfer rates by 10 million. kr, would be a handshake to people in those parts of the country with higher electricity prices due to natural conditions and high transmission costs. Unfortunately, there was no majority for this. The central party further believes that the current management regime for wolves contributes to the creation of an increased level of conflict between industry and the wolf, and between humans and wolves. It is therefore regrettable that the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment was not willing to support the proposal of the Centre for increased appropriations for the State killing laws, so that injured animals can be removed quickly and effectively when needed. When we are now confirmed that the wolf has walked over the mountains and all the way to Sogn and Fjordane, we feel irresponsible that the bulk of the population still pushes the treatment of a new report of predators until 2003. As a result, predatory policies are influenced by a policy of short-term use and not by a previous policy of war, which we had hoped for. Furthermore, the size has on several occasions assigned several tasks to the municipalities in relation to the management of national parks. The centre party believes that such local administration is important and correct. Local resource management makes it easier to see the impact of personal and political decisions. When transferring tasks to municipalities, the state must also follow funds, and some of them fail. It is therefore wrong when the majority does not follow up on the increased tasks with increased funds. In this context, the centre party proposes 2.8 million. kr more for local national parks than the Stoltenberg government did. Of these funds, 400,000 would have gone to the Dovreberg Council. It's a coordinating body. The remaining 2.4 million. We would be divided into the eight municipalities concerned, divided into four counties. In my home country, for example, Lesja and Dovre, which is largely a national park, got 300,000 kroner each. Finally, in the setting, the Progress Party, the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, together with the Centre Party, argue strongly against cuts in the allocation to the Staten Kartverk of a total of 38 million. kr. Nevertheless, there was as much cut at this post as the Workers' Party government proposed to increase the allocation. There is reason to be concerned about the progress of the digitisation of the charts, but the majority – the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Workers' Party – are taking part in this cut. Finally, on behalf of the Centre Party, I will address proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The other proposals for which we are co-sponsored have been raised in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e590	The representative of Enger has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e595	The representative Inger S. Enger of the Senterpartiet is busy with equal power prices, and she's also busy with the districts. I would like to draw attention to the main priorities of the Centre Party. It states in a note that households with a consumption of more than 18000 kWh shall have an electricity charge of 14 øre. The budget, which is subsequently adopted, provides for an electricity charge of 9.6 øre in general. So this would mean an increase of 4.4 cents too many. Is this thought from the Center Party? Will this not produce very adverse distribution effects? In my opinion, this will affect families with young children who have a large electricity consumption, and it will affect rural homes, because they often live in single homes rather than apartments, which are often located in densely populated areas. It will hit District Norway, and the further north we come, the harder it gets, because the climate is harder and colder. And it will affect those who live in older and attractive homes, who are often older people. If the goal of the Center Party with this was to hit some cabins on Hafjell, then the hit safety must be said to be very bad! The second question is, how can this be implemented? The regime that the central party here represents is going to be a historically based settlement system. How can this be implemented in a free market where, in principle, suppliers can be changed every day? I hope I can get an answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e608	First of all, I want to say to Halleraker, what is impossible in our days? It is clear that it is technically possible to implement this with two prices on the current, which we have great faith in. There's several reasons for that. Firstly, it is important that one tries to limit the use of electricity, and it is a good incentive to divide the electricity charge so that when consumed under 18000 kWh, one price and when consumed above have more. When the representative here a little bit slightly asks if it's to hit the cabins on Hafjell, it's actually not. It's because ordinary families are mostly consumed around 18 000 kWh, and if they want to use more, there are many other possibilities. A major concern was also expressed for large rural houses, but they have, for example, know, and it pollutes no more than other things. Therefore, it is worthwhile to use less power. Those who use little and who are interested in saving will be paid for it – to put it that way – and those who use more have to find out that it will cost. It makes sense to do it this way, and I have to say that in the campaign this was actually some of what we got the most through for. People understood it, people are interested in saving, and people are quite environmentally aware. Then it's very nice that someone gets the opportunity to do this in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e617	I thought it was good to hear that the Center Party is now very clear when it comes to state ownership. It was also my experience at the end of the previous period that they were clear about it, but it was not always as easy to understand when they were in position, for example. in relation to Statoil. I understand that the Center Party is now very clear that they want strong public ownership, and that what happens to the Cartwork – the Center Party’s position there – is the Central Party’s ideological profile when it comes to these questions in the future. We are aware that, for SV, the environmental policy is closest to the heart, but for the Central Party, there is an impression that it is the basic owners that are nuclear sacs. So my question to the Center Party is then related to coniferous protection. SV wants an equal amount of effort in Sweden and Finland, i.e. we have to increase protection by a percentage. My question is, what does the Central Party think of an increase in coniferous protection? Let me also rely on this with people having access to free nature in relation to the rights of all people. Isn't it a conflict if you just have the basic owners in your heart and don't think about people the most? Finally, wolf is something that the Storting is still discussing. From the comments of the Center Party, it may appear that they want them to get the wolves we have to shoot immediately. What is the Central Party's policy when it comes to wolves and wolf management?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e629	This was extensive, and I can't help but understand that Langeland was going to be in most of the areas. I can only stress that we are for public ownership when it comes to, among other things. State power – I guess that's what the first representative went out with. In addition, it was this thing about coniferous protection, where we always talked about the views of the landowners. That might work, but we also know what we're talking about, because very many of us live in the district where there's actually quite a lot of forest. It is clear that some lots have been more ongoing than others in terms of increasing coniferous protection. It's actually that one might have become a little bit old-fashioned when one just wants to protect without thinking a little bit in other paths. Much of the protection is passive, and it becomes in a way like a reserve. For this reason, the principle of 'living forest' should perhaps come out more strongly in the debate, where we are talking about edge zones, edge zones, life cycles, etc. That is why, in a comment in the vote, I say that one should not extend coniferous protection until one receives the evaluation that is now – I think it is in January – from the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture. It focuses on the biological, and then one will actually be able to see how it stands. I think that could be a good help for the Energy and Environment Committee. Finally, a little about the rights of all people. I can clearly say to Langeland and others who had to worry about it, that there is no conflict between the landowners and all-man rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e638	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e641	The left said in the election campaign that we wanted a change of government, among other things. to achieve more offensive environmental policies. That's what we got. The co-operation administration has been very positive in this area, and there has been a new shift in Norwegian environmental policy. We have received a more offensive climate policy, cf. the statement by the Minister of Environment following the climate negotiations in Marrakech. We have a clearly more offensive view of Britain's emissions in Sellafield, a problem that left high in the election, among other things. with a nationwide signature campaign where we collected over 40,000 signatures against emissions in Sellafield. The government decides to present a big message about the marine environment, the first in the world in its turn. A case of the establishment of a long-term long-term cultural memory fund will also be prioritised by the Cooperation Government. In the budget to be adopted today, and through other measures, the Government is paying significantly 100 million to pollution-free gas power plants. kr over two years, so that there can be a legitimate hope that they will replace the original gas power plans with large emissions of CO2. The result has not been given, but there is reason for optimism, and there is reason to commend the Government for its efforts. Other environmental items also have positive things to do. We see an increased investment in alternative energy sources, energy savings, we see an increased provision for the Environment Fund of DKK 1 billion, and we get a stronger commitment to watercourse liming than the Stoltenberg government provided, so that this important work continues. The government's positive attitude towards non-governmental organisations is also important, because they are an important prerequisite for the public engagement Norway needs to call itself an environmental nation. It is also worth mentioning the government's environmental performance in other areas. In the Ministry of Transport's budget, public transport appropriations are strengthened. This means an increased investment on the T-Bahn in Oslo, the Bergen urban railway and a discount for school students and students in the public transport sector. Parts of the opposition obviously enjoy claiming that this government is running with pure Right Policy or jumping when the Progress Party says jump. One could be tempted to use unparliamentary expressions about such claims, but I'm going to be careful to say that it is incalculable. This is particularly true of the policy area we are discussing today. With all due respect for government partners Right, one must well say that environmental policy has not been their main commitment in recent years. I take Parliamentary leader Oddvard Nilsen as a witness of truth when, in the accession debate, he praised the Left and Christian People's Party for the driving force behind the government's policy on the environment and on combating poverty. Such cooperation may give rise to influence and re-introduction, including for an environmental exposure that has been latent in the Right, inter alia. with the time of the current Minister for the Environment in charge of the Young Right. The left enjoys it, and likes to take part in the honour of the offensive environmental policy. The Labour Party has, after the election, taken maritime criticism for its lack of social profile. We have heard much less about the lack of environmental exposure. I agree on the current budgetary chapters as an expression of the willingness of the Workers' Party, once the foundation has been laid with a new government, to move towards a better environmental policy platform on which we can build.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e656	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e659	It's as far as we've discussed earlier as I want to challenge the Left, that's that the Left was in Bondevik I and withdrew from the government when she left because the Right Party and the Workers' Party pushed forward a solution that made it possible to build highly impure gas power plants. Now it turns out that the Left, who is now in government – someone has forgotten about it – is on a race that means that they want to be in and subsidize a gas power plant that emits 0.9 million. tonnes of CO2. At the same time, the Left will be involved in building up Snow White in a vulnerable area for example. fishing. In the election campaign we heard a lot about the Left as an environmental party. I have to say that the environmental alibi gets pretty rusty now that they're into what they're into in this government. So the question to the Left is, has it now become good environmental policy to build a highly impure gas power plant that emits 0.9 million tonnes of CO2? The last question goes on the Aktion Jærvastret. The left has insisted that this effort be made to get the necessary funds for one more year. Left cuts now this. Does the representative have a good basis for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e668	I come from an area where there are Akerselva and other watercourses within my constituency. But I know a little bit about this Jærvastre, because this has been a big commitment to our party people. There, the Stoltenberg government had cut everything. We can't get everything we want in three weeks, but it's now 1 million. NOK in another item that allows that project to continue, and that we get a certain pressure on it, sail if we did not get maximum pressure. The left has not changed the position of gas power plants. And what we have done with this government statement is to influence the research – as we do in this budget – and get going in order to get pollution rules for gas power plants. There's probably a slightly bigger belief in the future in the left than there is in the SV that future can actually bring us a little bit further on the basis of research. We want to push it, and we believe that we are actually coming to terms with the policy that is now in the government budget. This is a dramatic step towards a better environmental policy than the Workers' Party stood for, and the last week's race that the Workers' Party has had in relation to environmental policy is not something we should be very pleased with. We're going to be very happy that we got to reverse the trend that was there. It is possible that SV's armor is somewhat more shiny than Left's in relation to environmental policy, but it is quite clear that the Left's is considerably more in use, and we see that we get much more in cooperation with the Right and Christian People's Party than the SV have been in the vicinity of working with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e679	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e682	The current government has talked a lot about energy and environmental policies. In fact, they have also received relatively good media coverage on speaking. But when it comes to decisions – yes, one sees that media policy is one thing, real policy is another. Now, the government isn't that old, so maybe you should have ice cream in your stomach when it comes to political results. But there are nevertheless important signals given in a budget by the government parties. The government has, for example: declared that they will use Norwegian gas for purposes other than the production of electricity, it is necessary to know. But what is the real government policy in this area? The working party has taken the energy situation in Norway seriously. That is why we are promoting, inter alia: proposals to set up an innovation company in Grenland to further develop some of the resources that we as countries are so lucky to have. What is the position of the government parties in this context? Well, once again, they choose to talk instead of acting. The border area is in a special situation: First of all, everything is in place for the creation of a company in this region.Secondly, more gas is needed in the area to ensure further development of the industry. Thirdly, there are actors who have the opportunity and competence for development in the region. The head of the Committee on Energy and the Environment pointed out in a reply that when the Workers' Party made the proposal, it split the Telemark bench. What is this thing? Driving politics is wanting, and Norwegian society needs action, not talk. But the sermon to the Government doesn't just apply to Grenland. To the greatest extent, Forests in Trøndelag or the whole Orkanger-Verdal region apply. There is a desire to add a gas pipeline to future gas plants with branch pipes for other potential industrial activities. The gas pipe must be dimensioned in relation to this. The pipe is now most cost-effective. But state councillor Einar Steensnæs must have reacted strongly to the pressure from the NHO on this issue. He doesn't like the procedure. Let us, for the region's best, set aside such principles! Let's think about it a little bit, because this is about the possibility of developing an entire region. The procedure of the Government must pain Right more than anyone else. So the party that will be characterised to support business and to be the innovative party is here to stop the development of industry in a whole region. It is with disappointment that we in the Workers' Party record that the government parties are taking this matter so easily. Earlier today, the representative Onarheim gave some positive signals in relation to Forest. We wish him every success in the work of the Cooperation Government. Furthermore, there is a broad consensus that oil and gas resources are national values that will benefit all in Norway. Some oil companies have now found out that they are to centralize jobs. The fact that the oil companies require one to stay in Stavanger in order to get at all work is, in my opinion, in principle reprehensible. We have legislation that prevents gender discrimination. We have laws to prevent racial discrimination and we have laws to prevent distortions of competition. We can only imagine the reactions if, for example, Kristiansand City had demanded that those working in the city also live there. I assume that this will be followed up by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e732	Cooperation governance will focus on an offensive, holistic and long-term sustainable development policy. The time has come for the revitalisation of environmental policy. The draft budget is the first step towards implementing the Sem Declaration on this point. Environmental measures have increased by about 100 million. Compared to the proposals of the Labour Party Government. We are focusing more on energy research, energy saving, renewable energy sources and public transport. The environmental fund's share of the Petroleum Fund has doubled, to NOK 2 billion. At the same time, the Government proposed to strengthen efforts to reduce water and watercourses, cultural memory protection, radioactive monitoring and action against PCBs and grants to voluntary environmental organisations. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment has retained the broad lines of the draft budget of the Co-operation Government, but I think that the opposition can also afford to admit that there are 100 million. kr more in the budget of the Cooperative Government for environmental measures. It is also important to recognise that this needs to be seen from a cross-sectoral point of view. It's investing 65 million. kr more on transport is important for the environment. Betting on an island is important for the environment. Overall, the investment is 100 million. kr more than the Working Party provided. So I see that some people then pull in the cart, and they say there's a change of 33 million. kr. It's not going to work on the environment. But even if you were to put it in and subtract it from 100 million. kr to the environment, it is nearly 70 million. kr more for environmental action. I'm not satisfied with it, we had a week and a half to work on it, but at least it's better than what was there. And in the future, the environmental effort will have to become clearer – that is what is involved in revitalising environmental policy. I also learned that Klungland’s representative believed that there were largely media performances that influenced environmental policy. He called for a more active environmental policy, and then only to talk about traditional industrial travel. I didn't hear a word about the environment. And what is it that the Cooperation Government has done in a few weeks? We have said that we do not want to use forest management in our CO2 accounts in relation to Kyoto. We have announced an additional message for a more active climate policy. We have addressed the Gyrodactylus salaris challenge in Bullaren in Sweden. We have taken an initiative to establish an international panel related to UNEP, the United Nations Environment Organisation. We have called for a UN High Commissioner for the Environment to also be set up to discuss environmental issues internationally. We have arranged for CO2-free gas power plants to be preferred, through a significant incentive package. We have, as I have mentioned, added 65 million. kr more for the transport bit. We have raised Sellafield, and we have even started an investigation under the U.D. in relation to the legal implications of CO2 emissions. These initiatives have been undertaken by the Co-operation Board within eight weeks. And I think one should have been clear enough to admit that this of course involves a shift in the pace of environmental policy, one of which is set out in the Sem Declaration, and which is very important to us. The co-operation administration wants Norway to become a leading nation in the field of the environment. In climate policy, as mentioned, we will work actively internationally to bring the Kyoto Protocol into force and strengthen national efforts to ensure that Norway meets its obligations. Another area of cooperation management is a clean and rich marine environment. Norway collects billions of dollars of marine and coastal industries annually, and fish and fish products are our second largest export product group for oil and gas. Increased appropriations for the impact assessment of petroleum activities in the northern seas are part of this priority. The co-operation administration has announced that it will present its own big message on a comprehensive management of the marine environment that will make Norway a pioneer in this area. 1 pst. of our cultural memories are lost every year. In order to secure cultural memories and environments for future generations, the Cooperation Government has proposed increased allocations for cultural memory protection and will come back with a separate case of establishing a cultural memory fund. Today we are discussing environmental policy in the form of appropriations. It must not lead us to see environmental protection primarily as a cost item. Environmental protection is investment in the future, in the well-being and livelihood of our children and our children. Environmental protection is not retrospective but as forward-looking as investment in education and research and, for that matter, in the petroleum fund we are building to ensure future freedom of action and well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e751	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e755	I've learned that when you're calculating, it's an advantage to compare it to the same thing. I think the calculation presented here by the Environment Minister becomes strange when he claims they had 100 million. kr more than us for environmental protection. First, the new government based itself on new estimates that increased the scope of action. That's one explanation. But the Minister for the Environment cannot write or speak away from the fact that the framework put at the disposal of the Ministry of the Environment after the adopted position between the Advance Party and the Government Parties here in the House was considerably lower than the government of Stoltenberg put up in the Ministry of the Environment's budget. So then the state council is strongly provoked that Klungland suggests that one thing is to say a lot of good about the environment in the media, that's good, but that's action that counts. And then the Minister for the Environment draws in here as an example that he has now thought that in relation to the forest in relation to the climate, the Norwegian forest should be kept out. I just want to remind you that the Minister for the Environment from here in his statement on climate did not say one word about it before the representative Brustad challenged him on what he saw confirm it. Then I also think that the roughness should go both ways. Then I want to say: if we are to succeed in environmental policy – and that is what I hope and believe, and I also believe that there is a basis for agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government on a lot – we depend on many people to contribute. We depend on getting a greater commitment, a greater understanding at local level in the local community to succeed. I have registered that the municipal minister has now given signals that the process of the Stoltenberg government has made it possible to delegate more power and authority, especially in the field of environmental protection, is now on ice. I think that is very regrettable. My question to the Minister for the Environment will then be as follows: How does the Minister for the Environment intend to ensure that we get a greater commitment locally by, among other things, to delegate more power and authority also to municipalities? And what is the timetable for following up what the government of Stoltenberg proposed in the task message, and to which a majority of people have actually joined? Because it can't be that a government can suddenly add a big decision to it and thereby add processes to ice. Does the Minister for the Environment also agree that, in order to succeed in environmental policy, we depend on many of the municipalities involved in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e770	It's a fact that in the Co-operation Government's budget proposal, we added 100 million. kr more for environmental action. If you don't recognize it, you don't recognize that there's a $65 million contribution to society and society. kr is an environmental measure. That's it. Nor does it recognise that energy savings and research into CO2-free technologies are environmental measures. Of course it is. This is a whole of 100 million. kr. And of course, you might think that the cut of the Cartwork should be subtracted from this post. And of course you're free to do that. However, there is a net increase in environmental work. The Ministry of the Environment’s budget was strengthened by 6 million. kr for environmental action. So it's true that in the framework of the Financial Committee, this was reduced by 33 million. NOK due to the cut of the Cartwork. There is no reduction in environmental measures. There's a reduction in the Cartwork. I will come back with a full review of this in connection with the revision, and I will also report back to Stortinget. But I think you have to have your tongue right in your mouth in relation to what you're doing here. Then I welcome the invitation from the representative of Brustad for cooperation on environmental policy. That's what I think is constructive, and I'm going to put it on my heart. But as far as forest management is concerned, it is no longer going to be used when, in the first commitment period after Kyoto, we are going to calculate what we are going to do in Norway, of course, I can say that this was said as a response to the Workers' Party's contributions to the Storting in my statement. But I would point out that I answered that question 14 days earlier in Stortinget, where I concluded the same thing. There was a representative from SV who asked that question, and I think it would be a little voice to SV not to mention it. [[The President clubs.]] But I admit that I said to SV that we should not use hot air, and I admit that I told the Workers' Party that we should not use hot air. So we have agreement on that point. Now I don't have much time to answer the last question. However, in relation to the State's environmental protection department, I would say that the policy is not changed until the Stortinget may have adopted a new decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e779	The president was a little out of time. But the President expects us to get back to this in more articles later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e782	In my line, I'll talk a little bit about public growth, and then I don't think about the Map, but about voluntary environmental protection organisations. Today, 25 environmental protection organisations receive State grants. A majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, consisting of the Workers’ Party and the Government Parties, is now calling for an increase in the framework of grants to environmental protection organisations in order to bring more named organisations into this scheme. That's what I think is a strange procedure, to put it mildly. I thought there were more objective criteria to obtain financial support than different political majority in this Chamber. In principle, in the Progress Party, it should not be a public task to provide these organisations with financial support. We clearly see the need for organisations to be financially independent of the state and party groupings, and therefore do not have to take into account what is politically correct, and what a majority in this Chamber must think at all times. The way today's system works, there's a huge variation in the crown amount per. Member. For example, the Norwegian Nature Conservation Association, with its 18 000 members, receives NOK 3814 000, an average of NOK 211 per year. Member. Norway's Environmental Protection Association, which has approx. 1,200 members, receive NOK 150 000, which amounts to NOK 125 per person. Member. When there are so many variations per. member, it is not possible to put under the chair that someone may feel unfairly treated as today's system is. Do the Councils of State need more objective and equal criteria for grants to environmental protection organisations, so that they are treated equally?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e793	A little bit in the extension of the previous line, I have to say that voluntary teams and the environmental work of organisations are also important in terms of creating a local commitment. The fact that we have support schemes for these organisations by the Ministry of the Environment, I believe, is crucial for creating an increased interest in environmental work. I was in the situation that I was invited to Ink Wolf and Rokkerolf a few weeks ago. Then a representative from Blekkulf said that the first members of Blekkulf's Environmental Detectives now had the right to vote in the year's elections; there are young people who have become young and who have been concerned about the environment for a number of years. Clearly, it is also a little bit like how to look at politics. So I want to continue my efforts to bet on voluntary teams and organisations, and that's why I've invested 2.5 million. kr more for this. I have noted the views of the representative Korsberg relating to more objective criteria in relation to the number of members. I'm relatively new at work, so I haven't really gone so deep into that particular issue, but I'm going to take it with me. I think it's an interesting point of view, and I'm going to take a closer look at the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e802	The councils called for the futility of the Storting in their article. Then I got a little surprised. For what SV has just stressed is to be clear about the comments we have made in relation to the Minister of the Environment's activity. Quite rightly, that activity has been particularly high abroad, but it has been said by the SV that the effort has been good. This party has thus been voiced, as requested by the Council of State. One gets to hear about it gallantly other than SV this right here. Among other things, in relation to the effort in Marrakech, not least, in relation to what the Council of State has said when it comes to forest, and in relation to the fact that he actually manages to distance himself from the most harsh when it comes to the use of gas on land and when it comes to the construction of gas power plants, I think he has managed to keep that profile. It's positive. But the state councils must also toil to be challenged in some areas without being left with a leak! Because it's so easy that even if it looks good, there's a part that doesn't match. My main challenge to the state council will then be: is it so to understand that if he were to start with blank sheets when it comes to the climate message, would he have had the heavily impurifying gas power plant in relation to Snow White? Is it an advantage for the Council of State to have it when he writes his climate message? In the end, about cultural memory funds. Is the Council of State in agreement with Ramm's view that this should be up and running by 1.1.2003?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e811	At first I have to say that the committee leader, Brother Yngve Rahm, is a wise man, and I think you should pay attention to what he says about the cultural memory fund as well. So we're going to try to do our best from the government's side. It's a fact, as I also said in my post, that 1 pst. cultural memories in Norway disappear each year. It's a huge challenge to do something about it, because it's our cultural heritage that disappears in that way. In relation to roughness, I have no problem saying that I think SV has treated the Co-operation Administration in a very proper way in terms of both environmental and energy issues, and in a nuanced way. So we're not hanging out with leppa! So the question of starting with blank sheets. Nobody does when you go into a job like this. We started with the Sem declaration, which is quite clear and binding. The Sem statement states that it is noted that the Stortinget decided in the spring of 2000 that three conventional gas power plants should be built. Then there is also in the Sem Declaration an opening for Snow White, provided that you relate to normal rules of procedure. But beyond that, no conventional gas power station will be built in Norway. That's why we've suggested that it's the CO2-free technology that's going to exist. In addition, significant incentives have been provided for those who intend to build conventional gas power plants instead of building CO2-free. There, the Minister of Oil and Energy and I have had a dialogue with the industry, and there we are calling for, for example. The support of the Labour Party in that work – I have to say. That's where I think SV has a point. We are not interested in, for example. to begin instructing Statoil to sell gas at a lower price than market economy. So I believe that this government is adding to a responsible policy also in the energy field that is based on the Storting decision, but that points forward in relation to a CO2-free technology. And I think SV should value that – and that's what you do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e822	State Council Brende expressed instead that he wanted rustiness and some praise perhaps, and I want to give it to the extent that he thinks it is pleasant! I think the Council of State has been very good and early marked a clear and good line in the fight against the recovery facility for nuclear waste in Sellafield. It is clear that it is a very important work in thought, among other things. on the impact of radioactivity on our marine areas. Eight weeks are short, so in other areas the government has not moved so well yet, but I want to give the council the chance to clarify the government's position on predator management. In his reply to me instead, Langeland suggested that the Center Party could well imagine shooting all the wolves. That is not the case, but we should not underestimate the conflicts associated with the management of predators. And we want a new predator policy. We also want a larger outlet – to be completely open on it – of harmful predators. In the last big period – that was election fighting, I might stress it – the special representative from the Right in Hedmark was a very active spokesman – I heard him in several debates – for a more restrictive predatory policy. It was especially in terms of wolves. So my question to the Council of State will then be: Will the Council of State follow up what the representative of Hedmark foreshadowed, and will the Council of State contribute to the decision of the Storting as a elected body on the management area of the wolf?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e833	I thank the representative, Mr. Enger, for the pleasant words, to which I hope I can live. Then go to predator management. I am pleased that the representative stresses that when SV claims that the Center Party will shoot all the wolves, it is not right. I guess when it's not like that, it's because you're aware that Norway has joined international conventions, among other things. The Berne Convention, which says that all countries have a responsibility to take care of vulnerable animal groups. As far as predator management is concerned, it is a very difficult area. The size has decided that we should have a minimum population of large predators, but at the same time we should be active in the field. That there are quite challenging things going on in the field, we see, especially in the summer when the sheep are out grazing. What we're going to do from the government's side is to work on, are remedial measures, related to guessing, dogs, fences, and all sorts of creative approaches to make this go better together. However, if large predators are still to be kept, to which one is internationally obliged, and at the same time actively operating in the field, there will be conflicts. We're going to try to limit them as much as possible. The Stortinget will be presented with its own predatory message in 2003, which we have started working with in the department. We want an open line to all those who are both concerned and interested. It is important, for example, to: job with fear-reduction measures. That is why I am pleased with the initiative that the Labour Party has now taken in relation to the budget, on increasing efforts at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e842	First of all, I would like to say to the exchange of lines between the representative Brustad and the Council of State that it is interesting that paragraph 1 of the Council of State's list of things he has done is that he should not take advantage of the possibility of taking CO2 into account in the forest in the climate accounts, and that this is something that the Council of State has only said about in the Storting on the initiative of other parties, and that was not mentioned in one word in the Council of State's own climate policy statement. Of course, for those of us who are concerned with environmental policy, it is exciting that we have a Minister of Environmental Protection who goes out offensively. Among other things, he did. in Stortingets Question Time when the representative Sylvia Brustad took up the strong expansion that has taken place in the beach zone. Here the Minister for the Environment said: «Allemannsrecht is a foundation for outdoor life in Norway». It is therefore ‘important to protect the values represented by the rights of all’. I think it's great that the Council of State is so clear. But when you read the budget setting, it seems that he hasn't quite gotten his party traps with him. Among other things, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are not involved in a comment that, together with SV, we stress that «the Directorate of Natural Management's main objective is to preserve biodiversity and to protect and strengthen the rights of all human beings». It's a note that both the Right and the Christian People's Party participated in last year. The Bondevik II Government proposed inter alia: a cut of 6,5 million. the purchase of open air areas to the benefit of the general public, and the budgetary position would not underline the importance of providing funds to facilitate fisheries for the general public. I'm going to be bored with big doses of Northern Norse roughness here in the hall. I hope that this possible imbalance between what the Council of State says and what is written in the settings of big business is just a result of the fact that the lines of communication between political leadership in the Ministry of the Environment and the representatives of big business have not yet been fully put in place, but that that contact and the lines of communication will be completely up and going when the Stortinget of Spring is going to deal with the big business message about outdoors.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e853	I'm going to do that coordination if the representative of Konglevoll, who is a known gas power opposer, makes the coordination towards his own group, who now has a rough ride against the oil and energy minister because he is not willing to instruct Statoil to sell gas below the market price to Industriekraft Mid-Norway. It is perhaps the most astonishing play that has come from the Workers' Party during this debate. I'd like to think about how you look at it in an environmental perspective. As far as the Kyoto Protocol is concerned, we were very hard on the Norwegian side to say that it was not going to be hollowed out when we were in Marrakech. Unfortunately, there was some glare in relation to hot air and forest management. But the first thing I did when I got the chance to respond to it in Stortinget was, like the first Norwegian Environment Minister, to announce that Norway will not avail itself of the hot air option, the forest management bit, in connection with our 2008 climate accounts. It's a fact that when I notified it, no other environmental protection ministers had been clear about it before. That's what biodiversity and open-air life are all about. It's a bet area for this government. It is true that we are betting more in this round on the organisation of national parks, because there are many national parks that are not marked in the way they should have been marked, and we spent money from buying up to it. But both of those areas are to be prioritised in the future. In terms of planning law and beach area, during the spring I plan to make my own odelsting proposal with the follow-up of the Planlov selection, such as. means a narrowing of the views of the major society in relation to the rights of all persons. With regard to the settlement in the coastal zone, the county councillors have now also been informed that, for each pending plan item, critical consideration should be given to the exercise of their right of objection with regard to the settlement in the coastal zone. The ministry has made this quite clear to the statesmen. I think that the Northern Norwegian roughness will also appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e867	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e870	I'm going to start this post by saying a few words about the bulk of the population, consisting of the government parties and the Workers' Party, their treatment of the Staten Kartverk. A total cut of 38 million. kr on Staten chart allocations will have serious consequences and lead to significant delays in digitisation of the national map base. The fact that the Workers' Party is trying to blame the Advance Party for the cut in the Cartwork is simply comical. The labour market will also lead to a significant deterioration in the build-up of skills in the State Maps and the loss of the necessary jobs, which will hit the head office of Hønefoss hard. It is a fact that the cuts in the Cartwork are so powerful that it requires a new review in the context of the revised state budget. Why a majority of the government parties and the Workers' Party cut so much now that revised to be used for a rescue operation for the Cartwork, is incomprehensible to me, but I am also not a member of these parties, fortunately. The State's mapping system is also a government management company which, in some cases, competes with private companies. There can therefore be no doubt that today's system is unlucky and unblemished, because private players meet the State's mapping system both as a customer and as a competitor. In order to achieve a level playing field and to avoid unfortunate conflicts of stability, our view, and the previous view of the Right, should be transformed into a limited liability company and sold. Unfortunately, our proposal is not supported by a majority, nor is it supported by the Right this time, since the Right is in government and is opposed to its previous proposals. Last night the business committee had a debate here in the hall. All the parties then talked about the many possibilities of the farming industry and the growth that had to come within this industry. It was said that the farming industry is the future both nationally and not least in the districts. I fully agree with that, and that is why, in the Progress Party, we are very sceptical about the principles of national salmon rivers and national salmon fjords, which will result in large areas being linked and therefore not usable for farming. In the past, we in the Progress Party have been asked to get appropriations for the problem of wild game in a separate post, without having any impact. This time there is unanimity for the proposal, and we are very pleased about that. Because I think it will be important that the measures become more transparent, making it easier to budget in the future, and especially in the long term. Then I hope that this post does not suffer the same fate as the post of liming, namely being cut every year. As surely as cut, it's that someone will increase the appropriations, which it most often becomes the majority. But not this time. I'm really not so surprised about that, because it seems like the criteria for becoming the Minister of Environmental Protection are that the appropriations for liming should be cut sharply. There should therefore be no danger of me ever becoming Minister for the Environment – and I have never had a daydream about that either! However, I am disappointed that the bulk of the population is not close to granting the necessary means of liming. It should be of political interest to remedy the damage caused by pollution. It is a regrettable fact that a significant part of the pollution in Norway is caused by emissions from other countries, and in these times I think of the Sellafield emissions in particular. Therefore, it is important that Norway in international forums works for agreements that record and limit such pollution. An objective must, of course, be to be able to apply the obligation of liability. We therefore believe that a separate international special court for environmental matters should be established under the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Unfortunately, the proposal does not get a majority this time, but we will be able to promote the proposal on later occasions. It is possible that this proposal will be adopted at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e898	In the Energy and Environment Committee, the government parties chose to form a majority of the budget together with the Workers' Party, and I would like to express my joy at the fact that the budget compromise in the Committee did not result in the Workers' Party being given the majority of their comments on the State subsidisation of the gas pipeline to the conventional gas power plant in Forest. This means that the government parties have not joined the Workers' Party's interpretation of the Sem-Declaration at this point, and we find it very pleasing in SV. We in SV do not want the state to subsidize a polluting gas power plant in Forest. But the joy is also due to the fact that the continuous manipulation campaign that has been driven has apparently not led. About two years ago, the Address Paper revealed a secret gas network in the Trøndelag County. The network’s expressed objective – as stated in the minutes of the start-up meeting on 29 November 1999 – was to ‘ensure political support in the Trondheimsfjorden gas pipeline Stortingen’. Of course, this work was supported by the developer, Industrial Power Mid-Norway, as well as by the NHO. In addition, however, there were also central bureaucrats located in the municipality of Trondheim as well as in the municipality of Süd-Trøndelag. As the primary target group for the impact, the members of the Energy Committee on the Storting had been flashed out and ‘other central staging representatives with a focus on the Trøndelagsbenken’. The work was planned through a ‘command centre’ — modelled on the one already established at Industrikraft Mid-Norway — with a plan for the information and impact work. The organisation may not be so perceptive in itself, but when the group in a report refers to itself as a ‘non-existent group’ which should be ‘cautious about profiling the group in the media’, it becomes a bit more pelagic. In a very good analysis article, the Address Book recently referred to these revelations as embarrassing. But even more embarrassingly, the newspaper believes it is that the subtle game to the developer after the revelations has actually just continued: ‘We are witnessing a drama from the world of reality that transcends all the world’s ‘reality television’. The director is a man of power. Those who have one overall goal; to get their will through on their own premises. We have seen that they are using the instruments that are considered appropriate, including attempts to manipulate opinion and brutal pressure on the authorities. In their eyes, targeted use of media is a right. In the scenes, local politicians applaud loudly.’ There is a former South-Trundel government politician here who has not applauded. And I have a great deal of understanding that last week the Minister of Oil and Energy was indignant that the Director of Industrial Power Mid-Norway, through direct pressure, tried to force promises of state subsidies. I myself have many times been provoked by the methods that have been used, and the dirty game that has been driven to realize this project. The fact that the Workers' Party acts as willing agents for capital forces, in this case one of the largest energy companies in the United States, Mirant, is regrettable, and I think the Workers' Party should go a little in itself in this matter and ask the question, is it really worth the price? The environmental policy of the Workers' Party is a scandal, and many have left the party for that reason – myself included. If the industrial lobby were to succeed, it would mean that greenhouse gas emissions would only increase by 2.2 million. tonnes of CO2 annually. I think it is in place to illustrate which mechanisms and counterpowers actually need to be overcome if we are to manage to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. And I'm not so naive that I think the story of the lobbying of gas power plants at Forest is unique in Norwegian context. The special thing about this story is that it became publicly known. It is an image of ‘an alarming lack of understanding of democratic processes — including open games’. In view of this, it is appropriate to read the comments made by the Workers' Party and the Advance Party on State aid for gas pipelines to Forests. We, who are concerned with reducing climate change emissions, find that this time we were doing well. But now it is asked whether the Council of State continues to be able to resist the Workers' Party and the American capital forces. In this case, many of those affected by climate change worldwide will have reason to be grateful.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e922	Oil and gas activities are currently generating large revenues for the Norwegian community, particularly in terms of revenues from the sale of oil and gas, but also through the ring-fences created by the activity for Norwegian industry. The semi-declaration states that: ‘It is important to ensure that the petroleum sector becomes a significant contributor to the financing of the welfare society and to industrial development throughout the country also in the future’. Petroleum resources on Norwegian soil have provided the basis for the development of the Norwegian oil and gas industry. The industry is currently Norway's largest industry and has a very high level of competence and technology. The industry employs more than 70000 people and creates significant ring-effects for other Norwegian industry, both in the form of large purchases and in the form of technology cooperation. There is still a high potential for oil and gas activities on Norwegian continental shelf. The expected remaining petroleum resources account for more than 10 billion Sm3 oil equivalents. In comparison, over 30 years of production on a Norwegian base, we have collected about 3 billion Sm3. This shows us that we should continue to have a long-term perspective on Norwegian oil and gas activities. The forecasts show that Norway has a potential for a further 50 years of oil production, while gas production has a time-perjective of 100 years. This gives us great opportunities, but also a similar great responsibility. The resources on the Norwegian base provide opportunities for further development of the Norwegian oil and gas industry. We rely on the expertise built up in the Norwegian oil and gas industry to develop this resource potential. We also see a significant world market for oil and gas-related products, where there are great opportunities for Norwegian companies. Technology is the main driver of the development of petroleum activity. Research and development are essential for the most efficient and environmentally friendly extraction of petroleum resources in the future. In addition, increased efforts to develop technologies in the oil and gas industries may contribute to increasing the future revenues of the country from its activities. The responsibility that rests on us, which has got these huge resources off our coast, lies in exploiting and managing resources well and rationally, to our joy and for future generations. And the responsibility lies in protecting the environment, avoiding unfortunate climate change and using our technology and knowledge to prevent conflicts with fishing interests and the marine environment. I have noticed that the committee is committed to strengthening the safety of the Norwegian base. I'm glad. The majority of the Committee allocates 2 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal to contribute to this, against the corresponding cut in other items. I want to ensure that these funds are placed within the budget of the Directorate-General for Oil in line with the majority's objective. The government believes that Norway has much to do with being an international leader in the development of gas power without CO2 emissions. We are therefore increasing the investment in research related to gas power cleaning technology. Overall, an increase of 30 million was proposed. kr over the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environment's budgets. This means a significant strengthening of efforts in this area. I note that there is broad support for this in the Committee. The Government will present a strategy for domestic use of gas. With regard to the issues related to the organisation of work on domestic gas use, I refer to the Stortingen decision in connection with the proposal sent from the Odelstingen treatment of Innst. O. No 59 for 2000-2001: ‘The Government is asked to come back with an assessment of who will be responsible for following up the national gas strategy in the context of the treatment of the notified natural gas wholesale notification.’ As the Committee points out, in this area there are important problems relating to infrastructure, to new technologies and to organisation. The government will raise a wide-ranging discussion of these issues in line with the Committee's comments. The co-operation administration will pursue a forward-looking energy policy. Norway should be able to target itself as the leading energy producer in Western Europe. We have special assumptions for both oil and gas, hydro, bio and wind power. But we still have a long way to go before we have used this in our own energy supply to ensure a safe, flexible and environmentally friendly energy supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e956	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e959	We have been producing natural gas in Norway for 24 years, and we have gradually grown to be the third largest producer of natural gas in Europe. At the same time, we are the largest exporter of gas other than Russia. It seems that there is quite a broad consensus between the Workers' Party and the government parties that there is a potential for increased value creation. And perhaps especially now, when parts of the industry are faltering, we should aim to apply a certain amount of natural gas domestically, and that is something that, in the view of the Workers' Party, should be done reasonably quickly. However, we distinguish layers on the Workers' Party's proposal for a company to strengthen innovation and development of environmentally friendly technologies, which we believe should have four fields of activity: the establishment of a pilot plant for pollution-free gas power plants by 2005, natural gas as a bridge to future hydrogen communities, technology development and the development of modern infrastructure. We propose that this be added to Grenland, and I wonder that the government parties in this round will not vote for that proposal. When we want to add it to Grenland, it's because there's a strong industrial concentration, there's great competence, it can help to renew and maintain an industrial environment that's in trouble today, and there's raw material access, etc. However, I have heard in the debate that both the representative Onarheim and, in particular, Rahm have said that if the government comes back with a proposal on Grenland, the representatives should not oppose it – if I have understood correctly. I also hope the representatives work for it to actually come to Grenland. But my question is, what does the Council of State really think about the Workers' Party's proposal? As far as I remember, the Council of State gave positive signals to such a company in Grenland at a conference we attended in Bergen a short time ago. Or is the Council of State thinking about dividing this into several environments? There is something the Labour Party will warn against, because Norway is a small country, where we need strong environments that are not spread in too many places.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e968	I think I'll start by saying that the most important thing we can agree on in this debate today is what is going on using natural gas as an opportunity for value creation and equivalent income for the country of origin, and also using this to strengthen the jobs along the coast where it's natural to take in natural gas. And in this context, innovation and the development of new technologies will be an important part of the effort that needs to go hand in hand with this programme for increased use of natural gas in Norway. Another important task is to ensure that we have an infrastructure that makes it possible to get in with natural gas in those places along our coasts that we're facilitating. A third point I also want to mention is what is going on commercialization and information. It is evident that Norway has little tradition and information regarding different uses of natural gas. And an important part of a strategy for increasing the use of natural gas is that it is also a rate of increased information. All these are matters that will be addressed in the announced gas message, and a recommendation will also be made on how to organise these tasks, whether they become one or more companies or centres. The Labour Party is making it a major point in this debate to already be able to establish that this should be in a specific location, that is, Grenland. I do not know if it is the most important thing, but of course it is important for Grenland, and it is important for the other areas of the country that have similar ambitions. I have a long enough experience in Stortinget to understand that Stortinget will be allowed to influence it and decide it, but I think it would be wise to wait for the location decision for the Storing Message to be available.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e981	Today’s Businesses from yesterday can be read as follows: ‘State power is moving towards monopoly’. According to the newspaper, State power will be controlled directly and indirectly by more than half of Norwegian power generation if the latest plans for buying-in in Trøndelag go through. In the past, the Progress Party has repeatedly warned against this development, which is clearly anti-competitive and will ultimately go beyond its current customers. The majority of the population, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, parties that no longer have a majority in this Chamber, decided in our course to add a total of 16 billion kroner of government power in the form of capital and increased loan and guarantee frameworks. Two of the current government parties, Right and Left, joined forces with the Progress Party and shared our concerns for development, and the Council's own party was in favour of a lower amount. I challenged the Council of State on these questions during oral Question Time a few weeks ago, without him sharing our concerns and the concerns of our current customers about the development. I would therefore like to ask him if he now, after the most dramatic developments, has seen the light – literally – and will consider intervening with Statkraft and ensuring that they take their possible expansions outside Norway, so that we avoid this unfortunate competitive and monopoly situation. Because, of course, I expect him to agree with his fellow State Councillor Victor Norman, who in today's edition of that newspaper says that we should have a functioning competition market in the power sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e988	First of all, I can agree with my government colleague, the competition minister, that it is important that we have a well-functioning power market, and that this power market works to the benefit of the end-user, whether it be industry or private households. I have also said in the oral question procedure to which the representative, Mr Vaksdal, referred, that for my part I think it is unfortunate if we get an approximate monolithic structure in the Norwegian power market, where one power supplier is given the opportunity to play a dominant role and can determine some of the price structure in the market. At the same time, we are aware that we have a Nordic power market, a power exchange, so that the price will be determined differently from that of the power companies. It'll be competition. It is also important to follow up what Sylvia Brustad raised in the same questionnaire, namely the possibility for the end user to change the power supplier if the pricing of the company supplying power is not satisfied. I also think it is important for me as an oil and energy minister, who is currently responsible for the ownership of Statkraft, to deal with the competition rules neatly. It's the Competition Authority that plays the role, and the Competition Authority sort it out under another State Council. But my starting point is that we should have a complex power market where there are different actors to offer. It is in that way that we achieve the most efficient power market for the benefit of the customer and for the end user. Of course, the size of State power has to be assessed in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e997	The Minister of Oil and Energy has for the past few weeks worked hard in the Address Paper in connection with the gas power issue in the Forest. As I said in my post, the matter that has been rolled up has been characterised as a hopefully rare story in Norwegian everyday life. A coherent manipulation campaign and the exercise of brutal pressure against central authorities is what has taken place. I therefore have a strong understanding that last week the Minister of Oil and Energy was quite provoked by the fact that the Director of Industrial Power Mid-Norway, through direct pressure, tried to force promises of state subsidies. The address paper even wrote that the Council of State was furious. I am very pleased that the Council of State has got an insight into what methods have been used, both now and in the past, to realize this project. I have some knowledge of it. I'm from the region, and I've been a state politician in the South Trøndelag. I am not so naive that I believe these stories that the lobbying of the gas power plant at Forest is unique. The special thing is the revelations. I am very pleased that the Government now wants a neat order in this case, namely that it will first be seen in a larger context in the forecasted down-to-earth notification of the use of natural gas. The 2002 budget went well, but now it is asked whether the Council of State will continue to be able to resist this. I hope with all my heart that he can do it. I will therefore be allowed to ask the Council of State: Is it relevant for the Christian People's Party and the Minister of Oil and Energy that fossil energy is being subsidized more strongly and with more money than renewable energy? What is the opinion of the Government and the Christian People's Party on that matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1007	The government is in favour of increasing the use of natural gas in Norway with an environmentally friendly approach. That's the essence of the Sem declaration. So Stortinget has asked to be presented with a big message on how this is to be implemented, where, as I said in a previous line, I will address the funding arrangements and the legislation. I would like to take up the priority between different competing measures, to put it that way. Here, the creativity of the homeland is very great, and that's good. But it is clear that there is also a need to prioritise and to be able to put the different measures in order. I believe and have thought that it would be completely irresponsible and not in line with Stortinget's intentions if, before we have submitted such a gas report, we were to take a concrete position on individual projects with State contributions, as in the case of Forest. It amounts to several hundred million dollars. That would be irresponsible. When I'm pressured, I react. If I didn't just get furious, as I was quoted in the address paper, I can confirm that I was reasonably cash in relation to what I was exposed to. It is not possible to press the Government or the Council of State for clarification until the Stortinget has given its approval to the formulation of this policy. The application from Skogn is also not the only application available. There are several people who are interested in signing up to the policy that we have announced in the Sem statement. Therefore, I believe that the only reasonable and correct thing to do is to wait for the Government's assessment in the wholesale message. The Stortinget can then take a decision and decide the policy in this important area. But the Sem declaration stands firm. The Government will contribute to the co-financing of environmentally friendly measures in the use of natural gas in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1018	The issue of oil drilling in the northern regions is difficult, especially in relation to its impact on the marine environment. There are particularly two issues that are of great concern in terms of exploration drilling in the north. One is the question of the effects that environmental damage can have on an area as vulnerable as it is. The second is new information that produced water from the oil industry has a much greater negative impact on the marine environment than we previously thought. The entire Committee is concerned with better impact assessments related to further exploration in the Barents Sea. That's good. However, the real significance of such impact assessments is more uncertain. Government parties state in the setting that such impact assessments must not delay the natural progress of a field. And if I perceived the representative Onarheim right today, the impression was reinforced. If you want such impact assessments, you have to take it seriously. It must not be the case that the conclusions of the environmental studies are almost independent. It should not be allowed that the consideration of the so-called natural progress of a field does not take into account the conclusions and proposals for measures that may be in the context of an impact assessment. My question to the Council of State is: How serious will the Government actually take the conclusions of the impact assessment, and is it also willing to make an open assessment of the Snow White Development in relation to the conclusions of the impact assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1027	The representative of Enger points to a number of oil drilling conditions in the northern sea areas that the Government will take into account. It is important that we do not go any further than we know that we have control, both in terms of emissions and in relation to the impact on our fishing resources. That is why the Sem Declaration provides for one named project to be cleared, namely Snow White, if the opinions of the experts do not indicate any other decision. That's not how far we've encountered it in the department. Then there is a type of ‘hour out’ as one will carry out an impact assessment for all-year petroleum activities in the northern sea areas, from the Lofoten and northwards, as it says in the Sem Declaration, before moving on to new projects. This is an expression that the Government wants to take into account the issues raised by the representative Enger. I can confirm that we will take this seriously. I look at the comment in the vote that we want to have the best possible progress on further projects in northern seas. We will contribute to that, but do not let it go at the expense of the necessary research that we need to make sure that this petroleum activity will not go beyond either the nature, the climate commitments we have made, or the important fishing resources that have such an impact on the settlement and value creation of this part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1034	Government parties have tried to keep the flag high in order to keep the weakest in society. That, of course, is commendable enough. Nevertheless, when I choose to start my line to the Council of State with this, it is related to a development in the labour market offshore which the Workers' Party does not like, and which we believe the Government can influence. The employer's right to control is indisputable. Once you have accepted a job, you must deal with the contracts that have been concluded during the time when the employer is in possession of a job. Something else is going to happen when the oil companies dictate. In order to take up employment at all, leisure time, residence and the possibility of obtaining an apprenticeship contract shall be regulated by the oil companies. I have previously asked the Council of State about this in a different line, and he then indicated that there would be an agreement between the parties. But now it turns out that it is an impossible task to get an agreement between the parties in relation to this. So it's a dictation from the oil companies. I therefore allow myself to ask the Council of State if he believes that it should still be possible to take work in the oil sector independently of residence. Then, President, I have 25 seconds left!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1043	22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1046	It is true that the representative of Klungland has interrogated me about this earlier. I hardly have any other answer today than what I gave earlier. But I understand that it reacts under the kind of conditions that would dictate the employees of a company to settle in specific areas in order to get an addition relationship. If this were to be the case – I have to add it, because I do not know the conditions that the representative of Klungland is now addressing – in the form that has now been set up, I must say that it amazes me. In any case, it is not in line with the assumption that employees’ rights should be respected in a relationship between the employer and the employee. But I think the right address for that kind of unacceptable conditions, if they were to exist, of course, must be the employee's organisation. If this is designed in the way the representative of Klungland refers to, I can't honestly understand that this topic has not already been well lit by the trade union movement. I know the trade movement so well that I know that once they put their resources in place to change something that is unacceptable, they will succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1051	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1054	In the Stoltenberg Government's draft budget, environmental investment has increased in several important areas. Firstly, the Workers' Party has facilitated a strong increase in the contribution to biodiversity. We have proposed an increase in coniferous forest protection of over 40 billion kroner, which will ensure the progression of the coniferous forest plan. Progress in the National Park Plan is also ensured by an increase in the commitment mandate. The most important step forward in ensuring biodiversity is the introduction of a new knowledge-based management system, which we have proposed in the Biodiversity Notice, to be addressed to the spring of the Stortinge. As part of this, the Labour Party has proposed an increase of 9 million. kr for monitoring, monitoring and follow-up. Allemannsrechts is a foundation for outdoor life in Norway. There is now a development here, especially in the coastal zone, which means that there is a great need to increase bets on the purchase of open air areas that should benefit everyone. Overall, the Workers' Party has proposed an increased bet on outdoor life of NOK 16 million. A third area of activity is increased safety and preparedness along the coast. There is a total increase in the government of Stoltenberg's state budget of 70 million. kr in this area – 35 of them in the Ministry of the Environment’s budget. What is the biggest new investment in the draft budget is the grant to the nickel plant in Kola. This is a follow-up to a work that was started several years ago and is now being followed up by appropriations. This is an important environmental issue in the Barents region, which is most important for Finnmark in Norway. A fifth bet area is cultural memory protection. The working party is for the creation of a cultural memory fund. Once it has not been put in place yet, we believe it would be right to start to experience cooperation between private owners and the public. We just have to note that it was not a majority for our Constitution in Stortinget, but that the Workers' Party is in and forms the majority for a general strengthening of the Riksantikvar. The transition from a Workers' Party government to a Right-dominated Bondevik government involves a cut in the Ministry of the Environment's budget. With the subsidiary support of the Progress Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have adopted a framework of 36.5 million. kr lower than the Workers' Party proposed. This is a cut in the Ministry of the Environment's budget which we believe is very unfortunate. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party has chosen to compromise with the government parties on the adjustment of some items. And in the case of the State's Cartwork, a majority of the Stortinget Government is asking to return to the revised national budget. So in addition to that, we have had an impact on the main features of the important areas of activity that we proposed. One reason why we chose to make a compromise is that we feared that cooperation with the Progress Party would further weaken areas in which we are concerned, for example. buying-in of open space, coniferous protection and Local Agenda 21. That is why we are pleased that in some important areas, we have seen increases in cooperation with the government parties, among other things. in relation to Local Agenda 21 and environmental work in municipalities, in relation to the work on local climate action plans, in relation to the research at NINA and the Polar Environment Centre in Tromsø – and the Workers' Party and the Government have joined forces in predatory policies in an increased focus on fear-reduction measures, taking into account the good experience we already see where these measures are being implemented. Finally, there is one thing I would like to mention in particular. In August this year, former Environment Minister Siri Bjerke launched a package of various environmental and cultural measures for the Groruddalen totaling 25 million. on the budget of several departments. The challenges in the Grorud Valley mean that it is important that these measures are followed up, and I assume that the new government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1075	We've lived with the seas for all generations. In earlier times, the sea was a dining room and represented good nutrition for many coastal households, often in combination with agriculture. In today's processed version of our country, Norway, with its large oil and gas reserves, appears to be one of the world's leading energy suppliers. Furthermore, we are one of the largest fishing nations, both through fish caught in the sea and through increasing aquaculture activity. In addition, we are not least one of the world's dominant maritime nations – all of this based on our location by the sea. Therefore, it is important and right that the Co-operation Government focuses strongly on a clean and rich marine environment. In particular, Norway as a fishing nation is dependent on both purity and wealth in the sea masses. Norwegian seafood has purity as one of its main characteristics and a trade mark in competition with products of other countries. Due, inter alia, to: animal diseases in Europe have greatly increased consumer awareness of purity and food safety. This serves the interests of us as a fishing nation. Today, the purity and biodiversity of the sea are threatened by several teams. Skipsuckell along the coast constantly reminds us of our own vulnerability. Names such as ‘Green Ålesund’ and ‘John R’ remind this, not to mention the Russian tanker ‘Kaliningrad’, which, at the beginning of July of this year, operated relatively uncontrolled off the coast of Troms with 17,500 tonnes of crude oil on board. Vulnerability is also shown in our own dependence on other countries' policies. Their decisions have an impact on our seas – on our biodiversity and purity. If we look north, we can mention the Russian state Duma, which has given a clear signal for the import of nuclear waste into its treatment facility in Mayak. This box is likely to be used for imports of nuclear waste along the Norwegian coast. In a relatively short time, the Barents Sea may face a new environmental threat, namely the shuttle traffic of ice-going tankers transporting oil from the rich fields of Timan Pechora to a transhipment terminal close to the Norwegian border. The oil is likely to be transferred to supertankers before proceeding along the Norwegian coast. Turning south, we see the threat from the nuclear recovery plant in Sellafield and the emissions of technetium from these plants. Unfortunately, a strong increase in radioactivity in seawater, seaweed and shellfish along the Norwegian coast has been scientifically demonstrated. The concentration of radioactive substances is increasing in the food chain and, in the long term, this trend can be very damaging to the fishing industry in Norway. The co-operation administration shows in its budget that they are taking a greater focus on a clean and rich marine environment seriously. It is shown, among others: through increased allocation of environmental monitoring and data in relation to radioactive pollution increased allocation for the impact assessment of petroleum activities in the northern seas increased allocation of oil protection equipment; In addition, there is an important and strong signal from the Co-operation Government when they clearly state that the chart page is to be protected from the cuts within the State’s mapping system – just not to delay the process of digitising charts, given the safety of the Norwegian coast. Finally, the notified notification can be mentioned, where the lines of conflict between oil and fish become a major issue. With such a notification, Norway becomes the first country ever to carry out an overall review of the marine environment. The Co-operation Board has stated that it is to be committed to the work of a clean and rich marine environment. This year's budget shows not only will but also active action in relation to working towards these objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1109	I would like to comment on the calculation presented by the Minister for the Environment instead. When Environment Minister Brende says that the Government proposed 100 million. This is because there was a greater room for action due to new calculations in relation to what the new Government provided. The point is, we have to compare the numbers from the financial setting. The Working Party has also used more for the environment. We've agreed to spend $10 million. kr more to enok. We've agreed to spend $30 million. kr more for research at CO2-free gas power plants. Then the difference is 60 million. kr. So the majority, that is. the Government Parties and the Advance Party, in the framework of the Ministry of the Environment with 36.6 million. kr in relation to the Workers' Party's proposal in the financial position. Then it's just about. Twenty-three million. kr again by the government's increased bet with respect to the Workers' Party. In addition, the government parties in the budget position of the Committee on Transport have, as far as I know, reduced the allocation to the Railway Agency by 15 million. kr – it is environmental policy – and 10 million. kr to other public transport services in relation to the proposals of the Workers' Party. Then there's nothing left of the 100 million. kr as the Minister for the Environment stands and boasts of being better than the Workers' Party. Moreover, as the Council of State is of course aware, a settlement has been reached between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party within the framework adopted in the context of the financial situation. If there is an additional proposition to be applied to Børge Burnde's calculation, yes, he should also be included in that calculation, inter alia. Including the Government's decision to reduce the appropriations for express buses by 25 million. kr. Fortunately, this corrected the government parties somewhat during the financial management process. I like to give Børge Burnde credit for being an offensive environmental protection minister, but I also believe that the same thing should be compared to the same thing. I think it is possible to reach agreement in many areas of environmental protection policy between the Labour Party and the Government Parties, as we have now achieved through the budgetary procedure, but I expect that one does not produce the policies of other parties in a wrong way. So also to the claim of the Environment Minister here, that representatives of the Workers' Party should have stated that we would now instruct Statoil in terms of price for Forest. That's wrong. Neither Olav Akselsen, Aud Gaundal, nor signed it. What is Olav Akslingen, among other things, has said, on the other hand, that it could be an idea that the Minister of Oil and Energy spoke to Statoil, in the same way that then Minister of Agriculture Bjarne Håkon Hanssen spoke to the food chains in order to bring down the price, in the same way that I have encouraged the Minister of Oil and Energy to talk to the electricity suppliers in order to bring the price down to the consumers. But there's something quite different than instructing. And there are none of the speakers I have mentioned here from the Workers' Party who have raised the issue. So once again: Honor the Environment Minister for saying and doing a lot of good in terms of environmental protection, but as I said, I expect him not to produce other parties' policies in a way that is not right. Finally, in the case of proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party, on innovation companies in Grenland, I want to turn it into a transmission proposal, because I feel that through the debate there have been positive signals from several representatives of the government parties, including from the Council of State, that there is a good basis for getting something to do in Grenland. So instead of having a proposal voted down because one would rather wait for the government message, I want to re-do that proposal for a transmission proposal, so that it is possible to come back to it during the processing of the gas message. But the Labour Party's position is clear now, and it will also be clear when we deal with that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1126	Today, as yesterday, we record a fairly high level of commitment from the Workers' Party's speakers in this Chamber, so at the end of this debate, it might be good to sum up some facts. In the fall election, the voters gave a clear message. They wanted a new government with a new policy, a policy that was better suited to meeting the challenges of the future than the Stoltenberg government managed to present. We've got a new government. The Semi-Declaration and the Cooperative Government have something new in store. It focuses on the future, the consideration of emerging generations, the environment and sustainable development – hand in hand with a predictable policy for business. The exciting thing about the work of the Committee on Energy and the Environment is that all this is within the Committee's remit. As a former regional politician for Hordaland, I have been working on the Sellafield case for several years. And finally, we have a Minister for the Environment in this country who is taking this matter so seriously, which is so important to the whole of the coast. This offers an environmental policy based on good value-conservative principles that lead to the precautionary principle, that the polluter pays, and that nature's limit of tolerance is applied. The co-operation government's adding well and well 100 million. to environmental measures in relation to the Stoltenberg Government. No distortion of calculation can change on this fact. I would be so liberal that I would like to say that I think it is gratifying that the Labour Party in the Committee supports us in this effort, as the representative, Mr Brustad, has just explained. This, too, is a continuous line in the field of energy policy. One of the Government's major areas of activity is energy research with a special focus on stimulating the development of so-called CO2-free gas power plants. In the business world, we see an exciting research effort aimed at reducing the disadvantages of excess heat and exhaust gases from gas power plants by exploiting them for value-generating industrial purposes. It is therefore gratifying that the majority of the Committee supports the Government in developing plans for a pilot project for CO2 and NOx emission reduction in relation to the gas power plant development. It is exciting to see plans from many competent settings in Norway for this purpose. Let me draw up Green Global Energy in Bergen, which has presented plans for algae production as a basis for the scarcity product of fish feed, as a valuable by-product of power generation. It is gratifying that the Committee sees these possibilities and is aware of the important connection to the gas pipeline between Bergen and Kolsnes. The co-operation administration also shows a keen willingness to invest in increased extraction rates on the base, the development of new energy sources and the greater domestic use of the valuable resource of natural gas, which will remain in the next hundred years. But then it is also important to develop a market and an infrastructure for gas use, for example. to offshore activities and ferry fleets. The availability of the LNG product within a reasonable range of weeks is key here. Statoil, the majority of states, has a special responsibility, and I would say that it is expected to follow up previous commitments and plans to enable such a development.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1142	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1145	Before the fall elections, I had the pleasure of studying energy physics, and in that connection, in a week's time, I'm going to have exams in thermophysics, or thermology, as it's called among the less extensive. This subject is among others: the basis for both gas power plants and the use of bioenergy, and it is based on a few simple foundations. The first one determines that energy can never rise or disappear. The other one tells us that exergia, or energy quality, will be reduced in any process where we're picking up an effect we need. In this debate, the Progress Party has highlighted Norway’s energy consumption vis-à-vis other countries and has completely ignored attempts to point out that the real special feature of Norwegian energy consumption is that such a large proportion is electricity, i.e. 100 pst. exergy. For my own entertainment I have to be allowed to say that I am looking forward to the Progress Party completing its argument in relation to ignoring energy quality, by rejecting the energy debate that energy can never disappear, so what is the SV really fighting about? I would assume that the party, like everyone else, wants to conduct a consistent argument. Furthermore, I have registered that the representative Onarheim has underlined our obligation to take care of the natural resources we have, and that the representative also has a great and good care for future generations. I'm a little uncertain about the extent to which I can include myself in it, but I hope that on a later occasion the representative Onarheim will be able to explain to me what makes Norway's natural resources in relation to wind and bioenergy less tangible than the gas in the North Sea. Because I don't see how else to understand the lack of willingness of the majority to invest properly in research on new renewable energy sources. Most of them are aware that Norway, Sweden and Denmark had an early distribution between themselves in this field. Denmark has made windmill ecology a major export article. Sweden has grown in bioenergy. In Norway, wave power was given up because it was not achieved during the first two attempts, and the remaining efforts are still ironically still at Kolsnes. This should not become the future image of Norwegian investment in new renewable energy sources, but it may soon be if the majority's willingness to invest does not increase. Finally, I would like to say that I share Mr Onarheim's wish that Norwegian technology bets provide a basis for increased prosperity internationally. That is why I am taking the opportunity to encourage the representative of Onarheim to think about where the need for wealth growth is greatest – in countries with large oil and gas resources, or in those countries where small-scale energy technologies can supply electricity to some of the billions of people today who are completely out of reach, for example. artificial cooling of medicinal products.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1156	The representative Halleraker said that the voters at the fall elections had given clear notice. That gives me reason to ask some questions: Message of what? Notice that the Workers' Party is still Norway's largest party, or that the Christian People's Party would fail its friends in the center and go to the right? I am not sure if the voters have given such clear notice in the autumn. State Council Børge Burnde called for futility in his post earlier today. I intend to deal with it in relation to Halleraker. As for the Minister for the Environment, I have to ask about the Council of State, when he says that my contribution was focused on traditional industry, does not look at the development of environmentally friendly use of gas as an environmental policy. Because in that case, I am a little surprised by his argument for strengthening the environmental budget, which he used immediately afterwards. It may well be that the Council of State has not been at its post long enough to see that there is indeed a link between the development of technology and industry. But I hope in my rudeness that he will realize it over time. In relation to what I was about to talk about politics and maybe have problems following it up, the Council of State rammed up different things, for example. that forest is not to be used in the CO2 accounting, that he is working on a climate notification, that he will fight the gyro, that he will have CO2-free gas power plants, that he will stop the emissions of Sellafield. Yes, when you're going to be clear, I want to ask the Minister what's new in this policy. What in the new policy of the Minister is what the Labour Party has not worked for?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1167	It's not just because I don't want to extend the debate that I will now try to take a very atoning line. We have today disagreed a little bit about where to place things. My industrial heart really banks too many of the proposals that have been promoted. The reason why I don't want to follow what the Workers' Party has come up with is that I feel that such things need to be seen in a context, and I ask the Department to do that, and that's what you get back to in the Gas Communication. I think we can then get a lot of interesting angles, which can in part stimulate to help industrial environments that today need drag help, and that also applies to everything that's going to happen around the coast, to see where it can really be beneficial to get such an injection of energy – and with new opportunities to move on. So it's also so that we have to see these things in context. We have to be concerned about the environment, and we have to be concerned about value creation. It's probably where the Socialist Left Party and I can't find each other. We must constantly ensure that we are on the offensive of technology development, look at how we should develop the best possible technology to improve the environment, and also ensure that we have a good basis for what we will live on in the future. I think this debate has been quite clarifying. I think it has been quite good, because we have been focused on some areas where we disagree, but also in many areas where the Committee shares a common view on preserving the environment and providing value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1176	My script said that environmental measures have increased by about 100 million. kr compared to the proposals of the Labour Party Government. There is no one who has denied that it results in correctness, and that bet has continued. The representative Brustad also mentioned that the government proposed to reduce the allocation to express buses, and that she was pleased that this has now been corrected. There are many arguments for having express buses, but there are also some environmental implications, such as: that the express buses are parallel to the railway, so that an environmental initiative was not on the part of the Workers' Party in the case of express buses. So Klungland and what happened to Sellafield. The first thing I did when I became the Council of State was to take a Nordic initiative so that we in the Nordic region could stand together with the United Kingdom. We then got on the Norwegian initiative a meeting with the two British Environment Ministers Michael Meacher and Margaret Beckett. We took a Nordic initiative – Norway called for it – in relation to Ireland, so we have welded ourselves together and have a common strategy. I also signed one case on the other day I was the Council of State, asking the U.D. for the legal implications of technetium 99 emissions – that is, the United Kingdom releases radioactive waste that can be cleaned right into the Irish Sea. I carried out the legal review on a recommendation based on what was then also with me. In relation to forest management, I am the first environmental protection minister who has said that hot air and forest management are not to be included in our CO2 accounts. We're going to promote a marine environmental message in the New Year – and it wasn't yet written, to say it like that. It will be an environmental message where we take care of our entire sea area and focus on how we can also keep it in a good constitution environmentally. We have also called for a UN High Commissioner for the Environment, and we have set up a major incentive package to facilitate CO2-free gas power plants. We are willing to provide electricity in grants equivalent to 2001 levels for those who build it. So my question goes to the Workers' Party: is it supported by the initiative of the Cooperation Government? Is it supported by our initiative that we would rather have CO2-free gas power stations than conventional gas power stations? As for the discussion that has developed that the Minister of Oil and Energy should talk to the Director of Statoil to discuss how to get lower gas prices to Industrikraft Mid-Norway, you don't think there are any instructions, it's just a talk. What, then, happens when the main shareholder of a listed company has to call and tell him that he thinks that the gas price should be lower than the market price? How will that work? Is it as a shareholder? Is it as Minister of Oil and Energy? Is it possible to perceive anything other than a strong political pressure to deviate from what should be the starting point for our gas sales, namely the market price?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1191	The council concluded its engaged post by saying exactly the same thing as I had intended to take hold of. How is that possible? When I took this up with Olav Akselsen saying that you should talk to the Government, the Axis was present in the hall and had a good opportunity to say from if he has been misplaced. His statements about taking a talk were confirmed by the representative Brustad. Then the question is, how can it be for the party that owns 81.8 pst? – the number is quality assured by the Minister of Oil and Energy – is it possible to take a talk without it being perceived as an instruction to lower the price? One thing is that here in the hall you open the way for the construction of a gas power plant – that's how it works. Something completely different is when you want to run for a builder with money to do a project that initially does not have profitability, profitable. This is also seen by the desperation expressed by the developer through the media, especially through the Address Paper. One gets the impression that this is obviously a large airlock – which is now in the process of collapsing. And that's why almost any means are used to put in place government subsidies, which are obviously totally dependent on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1200	I am not going to help start a new debate, but I would like to stress what the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Oil and Energy have said in relation to Forest. Let it be quite clear that neither the Government nor the Stortinge place any obstacles in the way that you can expand if you want to, and if you are willing to take the risk that is purely economically linked to this. Initially, the gas power plant in Forest was to be a commercial gas power plant and not dependent on subsidies to get started. But the government has said that the environmental elements of this, for example: branch pipes shall be capable of being evaluated in an overall context, related to the gas communication. The reality of Forest is that prices could not be predicted to change after GFU ceased to exist. And you don't have the ability to get a good enough deal with Stat power, seen with your eyes. There's the cloud. But this is Forest and Industrial Force Mid-Norway's own responsibility, not that of the department. As regards Hydro on Her Island in Porsground and this centre, I would like to stress that I very much agree with what both Sylvia Brustad and others have said. There's more in this room that supports Grenland, but we do it a little bit different ways. The reason why we've been detained in relation to the proposal that the Workers' Party has made is that it goes a little further than just applying to a location. They draw up some important assumptions as to what this company should do and how it should work. That mandate has not been served. The Stortinget does not have the power to work in relation to it, because we do not have a decision-making basis for it. When Sylvia Brustad has announced that she wants to turn this into a transmission proposal, I think it's a reasonable choice. I would like to say that the proposal that exists from two of the government parties on this point, we would also like to ask for a transfer proposal. Then, as the committee leader, I would like to conclude – without contributing to more debate today – by thanking everyone for contributing to a good, factual and proper debate. I would like to thank the Labour Party for its constructive contribution to achieving an offensive environmental budget. SV has played its role as a necessary corrective not only to the Government, but also to all of us. We have defended the government's policies to the best of our ability, and – in all modesty – that is all sorts of good reasons for doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1215	Sylvia Brustad has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1218	I have no problem supporting most of what Børge Brende adds up to, whether it's climate, forest or other things. We've agreed to that. In addition, the Workers' Party has laid the foundations for several of these things. Then to Forest. The basic question I'm going to challenge state council is: Is government council fire and right for or against gas power stations? That's the basic question. There's been a big debate here on things that aren't so much disagreement about. And so in the case of Forest, it's the gas pipe we're talking about. I read here – and I have realized that the Minister of Oil and Energy has confirmed – that if the gas pipe goes to things other than gas power plants, it will be opened in order to provide state support for it. This is what is being discussed. We have not taken a position on how much it should be, how extensive it should be, etc. I feel that there is no major disagreement about this, but that the government wants to come back to this during the processing of the gas message here in Stortinget. The questions to the Council of State Fire are: Is the Right and Government Council burning for or against this? Does the State Council support the Sem Declaration if the pipe goes to things other than gas power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1227	To the specific question from the representative Brustad: In the case of Industrikraft Mid-Norwegian plants at Skogn, the company has been granted environmental authorities' emission concessions, and they have received a concession from the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Government, under the Energy Act. Industrial power Mid-Norway may, if they wish, initiate the construction of a gas power plant. Everything's in place. It is therefore surprising that some people make it as if the Government were preventing this – not at all. What appeared in the papers was that Industriekraft Mid-Norway received a gas offer from Statoil of 80 pst. over what was economically viable for them to take as their starting point. When GFU existed, they received an offer of 42 cents – as far as I remember – and now an offer from Statoil of 71 cents. What is politically interesting is that former oil and energy minister Olav Aksensen has been out in the Address Paper and said that the government has to put a political pressure on Statoil to reduce the price. There have been repeated by several workers' party representatives here today. Then I would like to ask the following question: How can the Minister of Oil and Energy deal with this? The right starting point is that of course we refer to the Stortinge decision in spring 2000 regarding the construction of conventional gas power plants. The Sem statement takes this into account, but it is said that you prefer CO2-free gas power plants. Therefore, the Right in the Sem statement has helped to facilitate a large incentive package. I have asked the Labour Party if they support this incentive package. Is it the case that the Workers' Party prefers CO2-free gas power plants rather than conventional ones? I have not received an answer to that. And what does the Workers' Party put into this that the Minister of Oil and Energy will take a phone call to Olav Mountain in Statoil? And as a representative of a party that is a member of a social market economy and a well-functioning market and that listed companies should be able to deal professionally with their owners, I'm of course against the oil and energy minister taking a phone in contact and beginning to discuss the provisions relating to how Statoil is selling its gas. Statoil's task as a listed company and the task of the Director and the Board of Directors is to optimise the value creation of the company. Then, of course, they should sell the gas expensively, in order to obtain the best possible return for the shareholders' confiscated money through the equity of the company. It's a good principle, also for the Right and the Cooperation Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1238	The President is aware that the Councils of State can take the floor almost unlimited in a debate like this. I hope this is not misused to initiate new debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1242	I have had the floor only once in this debate and will seize this occasion since it became so much interest around my person. Let me just make it clear: I would like to follow the leader's call to land amicably and collectively in the debate, but I'm afraid I have to clarify two things. One concerns the request to contact Statoil to discuss the price of gas. That won't be the case. I'm not going to do that. The second is what Sylvia Brustad finally said in a conciliatory tone – and I interpret it positively – namely, that we may not disagree so much anyway. I would then like to point out that the project I was presented for by Industrikraft Mid-Norway was a State commitment of 200 million. NOK in equity and co-responsibility for SEK 900 million. DKK in loans, a total of NOK 1.3 billion. It is a scheme that I stated clearly that it is not going to be applicable. I'm not ready to make a decision. We have not put the policy into place in the Government, nor have I consulted the Stortinget. I believe that when it comes to such major principal, but also economic, issues, the Stortinget has both a right and an obligation to give its opinion in respect of the Stortingen's own decision to produce a gas report. Before concreteising individual actions, before prioritising a priority between different alternatives, I cannot decide on that type of project. That's what I said no to in Industrial Power Mid-Norway. That's what I reacted to in relation to the challenge I got through the Address Paper, and that's the position the Government still has.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1251	The President's request in place was not referred to the Council of State Einar Steensnæs. Rolf Terje Klungland has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1256	I would first like to make it clear that it has never been the Labour Party's policy that someone should be instructed in relation to the gas price at all. An untruth won't be more true even if it repeats several times. In the case of the gas pipeline to Forest, it is also not about going in and providing support to the gas power plant in Forest. But in order to develop the region's industry and business, there must therefore be more capacity on that pipe than that needed for the gas power plant. That's what our budget position encourages the Government to follow up. We haven't said anything about amounts, but we would have appreciated if the government had read our budget position, because then they would have seen it much clearer. In the case of CO2-free gas power plants, it is only to refer to the budgetary position, where we have followed up and supported the government's policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1265	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1273	Then we're ready for voting. The President has recorded that yesterday's President's invitation to find his places as soon as possible does not seem to have fallen into particularly good soil. I repeat this because it so obviously facilitates the counting for those who are responsible for the fact that the result of the election is also to be reflected when we are going to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1282	During the debate, 15 proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1 and 14, by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing Party proposal No. 2, by Inger S. Enger, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 3, by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 4, by Sylvia Brustad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 5, by Sylvia Brustad, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Promise Party proposal No. 6, by Brother Yngve Rahm on behalf of Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 7, by Sylvia Brustad on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 8, by Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 9-13, by Mr Voksdal on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 15, from Brother Yngve Rahm on behalf of the Workers' Party, Right and Christian People's Party It is first voted on proposals under the second frame-independent proposal. Proposal No. 14, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government is asked to provide an evaluation of the climate policy results of the land-based gas use in the Haugesund region in the context of the notified Land-based Natural Gas Dissemination Communication.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1332	Proposals Nos. 9–13, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up an energy and petroleum research fund of 10 billion. krona, where the yield is used for technological research to improve the degree of extraction, the economy and the safety of the continental shelf, as well as other relevant energy research projects.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the conversion of State Power SF into a limited liability company and the opening of private capital.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up new legislation on financial support for voluntary environmental protection organisations and to promote this as a matter of its own before the next year’s budget.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the work in international forums on the establishment of its own International Environmental Special Court under the International Court of Justice in The Hague.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to transform the state’s commercial activities into limited liability companies and to be sold.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1369	Proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to facilitate policy-making on issues related to the marine environment and climate policy in order to be addressed in accordance with the objectives of the Cooperative Government on sustainable development and the objective of following the precautionary principle.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1384	We have now come to proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party. The representative of Sylvia Brustad pointed out that the proposal had been converted into a transmission proposal and that the text would then be amended to: ‘The Government is recommended to make proposals for the creation of a company that ensures that the necessary technological development for the use of natural gas in Norway is forced and made commercial. This company shall initiate research and development projects, product development and commercialisation of technologies, alone and in conjunction with other environments, ensuring optimal environmentally friendly use of natural gas for different energy purposes.» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. We have come to proposal No. 6, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The President has taken the view that this proposal was also converted into a transmission proposal, and the text then reads as follows: «It is recommended that the Government assess the creation of companies which ensure the necessary technological development and commercialisation in the field of natural gas.» The President proposes that this proposal should also be forwarded to the Government without any responsibilities. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, then be taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to launch as soon as possible an investigation into a framework for the use of instruments for the promotion of energy produced from renewable energy sources and to submit proposals for measures aimed at: to increase the capacity of energy produced from renewable energy sources to ensure that instruments are designed to build stable framework conditions over time, while at the same time avoiding adverse distortions of competition, ensuring equal treatment of all renewable energy sources for the effective achievement of policy objectives.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1425	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to take appropriate action on a cultural memory fund in line with the previous decision of the Storting so that it can be established and operated from 1 January 2003.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1440	So let's do some suggestions under the second suggestion. That is proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. This proposal is an alternative to roman numeral V of the setting under field 12. The Committee had, under Roman Num V under Framework Domain 12, cancelled:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1468	There is therefore an alternative proposal from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘VEnlargement projects on Norwegian continental shelfThe Grand Council agrees that in 2002 the King may authorise projects on Norwegian continental shelf under the following conditions:1. The project must not have any principal or social aspects of importance.2. Upper limit of total investments per year project represents 5 billion. kroner.3. Each project must demonstrate acceptable socio-economic viability and be reasonably robust against changes in oil and natural gas price developments.4. There must be ad hoc cover for investments under cap. 2440 Direct economic involvement of the State in the petroleum industry.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e1501	So let's pick up the rest of the box area 12. There are two proposals for this framework area. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e2512	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e3518	We then consider the proposal for a decision under Framework Areas 12, I to VIII, with the exception of V, which we have voted on in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e4525	The President will draw attention to the fact that during the debate the Chairman of the Committee has corrected an error in the setting up of the Committee. Under the hood. 1810 Director-General for Oil Item 1 Operating expenditure shall be NOK 243000000 and under item 21 Special operating expenditure shall be NOK 67000000.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e6155	For Framework Area 13, there is a proposal from the Workers' Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 15th The proposal is Roman numeral IX of this framework area, and the President will take this up with the other Roman numerals. It is also the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party that are behind the motion for a resolution, so here it is a certain parallel. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘IXProposal for a decision to grant under the heading 1465 Purchases of services by the State in the State Cartwork, item 21 Payments for the State Mission, are added to the keyword ‘can be transferred’.’» The President has understood that the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progressive Party want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e6176	The proposal for a decision under the heading Frame-independent proposals remains to be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e6192	The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-07.ana.ud1309e6220	Then we should be done with the voting. Case No. 2, Unit, deleted.
