ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e32	The representative Eli Sollied Upperaas, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from 10 December to 13 December from the representative Haakon Blankenborg on leave from 11 December to 13 December, and from the representative André Kvakkestad on leave from 13 December to 14 December, both to attend the Council of Europe meetings in Paris.from the delegation of the European Parliamentary Committee to the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and the EEA Joint Committee, signed by the Head of Delegation Morten Höglund. The application concerns the participation of representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, Julie Christiansen, Gunn Karin Gjul, Ågot Valle, Ivar Østberg and Morten Høglund in the EFTA ministerial meeting in Geneva on 13 and 14 December. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: Sverre Myrli, Harald Espelund, Mette Korsrud, Christian Holm and Ib ThomsenFor Hordaland County: Ragna FlotveFor Uppland County: Reidun GravdahlFor Troms County: Leif Christian JohansenFor South-Trondelag County: Ola Røtvei3. Mette Korsrud and Leif Christian Johansen are elected to Lagtinget at the time they meet representatives Julie Christiansen and Ivar Østberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e133	Christian Holm is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e138	The President proposes that two presidents be elected for the current meeting and for the Storting meeting this week – and considers it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e143	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e148	Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are proposed as chairpersons. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are considered unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e156	Before the cases are dealt with, the President will propose that today's Storting meeting be suspended at 9 p.m. 12.15 and set again at 12.15 a.m. 15.30 to allow representatives to participate in the event at the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in Oslo City Hall. As a result, the President will further propose that the meeting continue beyond the scheduled time for the morning meeting until the current map has been completed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e171	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes. Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coastal Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines of response following the speeches of the main speakers from each of the party groups and on the submissions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e182	This year before and after the award of the Nobel Peace Prize to the United Nations, the defence budget is being dealt with by Norway for more than 50 years – I dare say – in the various UN aid and development organisations, as political prime minister of the UN Security Council, and not least as a participant in the UN peacekeeping forces. More than 55 000 Norwegian boys and girls have participated in international peace operations under the NATO and UN post-war regime – from the German Brigade via Korea, Congo, Lebanon to Kosovo. The Norwegian forces have had a very high reputation, although the requirements for our international military operations are becoming increasingly high in terms of response time, training, equipment and the ability to interact with other countries’ forces. ‘In fact, I’m a little tired of being a United Nations soldier’, said a former Norwegian soldier to the Evening Post last Saturday, adding: ‘I understand that I, and tens of thousands of other Nordics, have contributed to giving the world organisation the strength and weight it has finally received.’ [[Lighted in the hall became weaker.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e201	It was just the TV lights that got turned off, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e204	When I present with this budget-inner. S. No 7 for 2001-2002 from the Defence Committee, let me do that by first hailing today's Peace Prize winners and all the Norwegian boys and girls who have been, and are, in the UN service abroad, and recognizing that the picture of conflict has changed dramatically since the UN was founded in the smoke of the smoking ruins after World War II, founded to prevent war between states. In addition, the Committee, a unanimous committee, argues that if the proposed amount of Norwegian forces abroad appears to be too low, the Government must return to the Stortingen with additional appropriations, as the Government has also announced if it becomes appropriate to send Norwegian forces to Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. The Defence Budget has a net envelope of SEK 27.2 billion and is supported by a broad majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Government Parties. This majority has merged both on all budget chapters and items and on the political comments in the vote. Such a majority is a strength for Norwegian defence and security policy, pointing forward to a defence policy settlement to spring when the Government has announced a proposition that addresses the necessary changes in the defence structure and proposals to finance it. In today's security policy situation, it is important that defence policy is based on a broad majority of the Stortinget, where the centre of gravity is the Workers' Party and the government parties. This is further supported by the recent treatment of possible Norwegian military assistance to the war on terrorism, where the SV and the Progress Party showed with all their clarity that they are security policy leaders. However, it is important that an overall committee continues to emphasise the active and balanced conduct of security and defence policies in cooperation with allies and neighbouring countries. When NATO adopted its strategic concept in the spring of 1999, the alliance also took up new threats, such as terrorist networks, the spread of weapons of mass destruction and international crime. NATO recognised that terrorism can create instability in international society and that the modern, open and increasingly technological and globalised society is vulnerable. Now it is also important to stress the Article 5 guarantee of NATO and the mutual solidarity contained in this guarantee. Once the NATO Council has declared that there is an Article 5 situation following the terrorist attack on the United States on 11 September, it also demands us as allies. Then I have a strong call – not to say a prayer and it goes as much to my co-workers as to the Council of State – for the reorganisation proposition that comes to spring: we must not resort to the fight for structures or places that have been adopted down or moved. We cannot deal with a long-term defence plan every year. The announced proposition must, first and foremost, ensure consistency between the tasks, structure and funding of the defence and contribute to the elimination of the imbalance that has arisen as well as to the promotion of exceptional measures against terrorism. Then the Defence Organisation must have the necessary peace to carry out the modernisation – this in order to improve the operational unit, make the Defence more robust and secure a new device of the Defence Investment. In relation to the second imbalance – between operation and investment – all batches underline the need to strengthen the investment side. The most amazing thing in today's budget position is that the Progress Party reduces the investment chapter by no less than DKK 2 billion and spreads it around on different operating chapters. This is a bit funny for the Home Protection Agency, which the Progress Party benefits from more than twice what the National Council for the Home Protection themselves thought they needed in addition to practice and training. To put it a little on the head, it would probably help little with training if the Home Guard had not had money for ammunition. So the proposals of the Progress Party are probably promoted in full assurance that it will not be adopted. In other words, home protection is the area where the imbalance between adopted structure and the economy is greatest. We have to take responsibility for doing something about this. In a response from the Council of State to a letter from the Committee on the Protection of Home Affairs, it also states: ‘In the case of the exercise activity, 2002 appears as an exceptional year.’» Issues have also been raised as to whether the pace of implementation of the transition to a new structure is consistent with the decisions and intentions of the consideration of the suspension of the long-term plan on 13 June this year. Other speakers will come to this point later. I would like here to carefully ask the Council of State to comment on the issues raised in the setting. In the spring session, the Committee shall be given the opportunity to deal with military and civil protection in a context. After the June Stortinget stressed that the overall defence concept needs to be modernised, we need to look at a global social defence when the Vulnerability Notice and the Ministry of Defence's structural proposal come – if they do not come in exactly parallel, they will at least be dealt with in parallel. Among other things, there must be: management and coordination responsibilities are carefully assessed. We are so far not sufficiently aware of the wide range of sectors that need to be involved, and of the interdisciplinary nature of preparedness in the open, democratic and technological society. Finally, the Committee has – we shall call it seriously in doubt – joined an investment authority that the Storting will adopt today. It is a matter of empowering the Ministry to initiate and implement lower-category tangible investment projects, as well as construction projects with a national share not exceeding 100 million. kr. This is a high sum. We assume that the amount is due to the large reorganization projects that are now underway. The Committee will therefore follow this closely and will not be able to endorse the 2003 budget. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e242	It's going to be line change. Before we start that, the president will notice that we have some problems with the flow. It is possible that we have to switch to manual timing – it is not unusual at other major events. So if there's no number on the clock, it's not because you have unlimited speaking time, but because we have to switch to another timer system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e247	Let me first join the committee leader's tribute to the UN and to today's prize winners. Otherwise, there was an interesting and conciliatory article delivered by the committee leader – one might say a little in deference with the writings that the committee leader otherwise conducts in the daily press, but now leave it alone. Of course, from the Right-hand side, we are going to conclude that the additional proposition is not going to alert any rematches, and we are also going to conclude that this mentioned double imbalance is not just going to end, but is going to end. I would like to remind you that the structure adopted was thus adopted by the work of the majority of the Grand Duchy in June. I would like to be allowed to challenge Marit Nybakk if we have correctly understood her clear emphasis on the need for both structure and funding, and whether this means that the Workers' Party, almost in the form of a blank mandate, will join in the funding that will come into the proposition along with the necessary measures that are otherwise proposed. It will not be easy to understand that one should insist that the structure adopted should remain unchanged and that one should not have a double imbalance in the future unless one can be assured that there is a willingness to address the issue of financing as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e256	I would also like to stress that it is important that there is a broad consensus. What I want to promise is that the Workers' Party will contribute very constructively to a broad defence policy settlement, both on funding and structure, when the reorganisation proposition comes to spring. I would like to stress that in the case of such a demanding process of change as the reorganisation and modernisation of defence, it must have a predictable and predictable framework from start to finish. Such predictability can only be established through a broad and committed political consensus, and I believe that the representative Mr Næs and I can agree on that. I would like to reiterate that such agreement should be created through a defence-political settlement between the political parties, and the centre of gravity at which the Workers' Party and the present government parties should form. The working party will then look at the proposition when it comes. We will, of course, engage in constructive cooperation with the other parties in this Chamber in order to achieve the reconciliation that the Defence and the Defence employees deserve, so that there will be predictability and calmness in the process that has been initiated and that will continue in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e265	In a letter – there was also the flow, it was great – from the Royal Ministry of Defence on September 27, 2001, signed by Bjørn Tore Godal, we can among other things. read the following about how to reach 121,6 billion, or 121,6 billion dollars. 30.4 billion per year. years: ‘The work has been carried out in close cooperation with the Defence Command, the Defence Research Institute and the Defence Building Service. I recall that the entire adopted structure was recalculated in order to ensure the most accurate estimation possible." In today’s Evening Post, we read that the chairman of the Defence Committee, Marit Nybakk, in connection with the fact that the government parties have joined the Workers’ Party, among others. says that it is ‘advancable because it is a prerequisite for bringing together realistic economic appropriations, structure and intended tasks for the defence’. And then you present a budget that has a deficit of approx. DKr 4 billion. Then, of course, the question arises: how could the Workers' Party say that there is a correlation between realistic economic appropriations, structure and intended frameworks, etc. Is it possible when you subjugate as much as you've done?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e277	Let me first point out that some of the most important things when the spring proposition comes, is just to ensure consistency between realistic economic framework and structure and volume, and that we get a balance between operation and investment. I would also like to stress what is coming out of the proposition, that it is also important to ensure a target achievement of operating savings of NOK 2 billion per year. years and a reduction in staffing of at least 5000 annual works – to which the Stortinget joined – and, as I said, a better balance between investment and operations. I do not want to decide here and now on a very concrete sum or concrete sum per. years, but will look at the structures that will then become final – hopefully – at the proposition being dealt with during the spring, and the economic framework that we then get. But I agree with the representative that the economic framework conditions for defence must be both realistic and consistent with the structure that is finally adopted for spring, with the refinements that may then be made, in order to establish a defence structure with better operational capability, a structure that is also adapted to current and future security policy challenges. I want to kick the ball back to the Progress Party and encourage them to join in on that too, because I think it is important that, just as in Denmark, we get as broad a majority in the Stortinget as possible on the defence of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e288	Norwegian workers' movement has a long tradition of being anti-war. Norway's most famous military negotiators are Gerhardsen and Tranmæl. We see that of those who are recruited today, well, thousands to relieve the civil service obligation. A paradox is that one cannot afford to keep up with the preschool of civil servants at Hustad clay in More and Romesdal, a preschool that provides an educational provision that is absolutely necessary in a world where the power increases. All of these that are mentioned, also have no reckless defense in any way. The common defence system in Norway depends primarily on the willingness to defend that is always present in the people. We are now seeing tendencies that one will bet more out of the Norwegian territory and increasingly relinquish forces without UN mandate. I'll give you an example. In the Bondebladet in spring, there was an article about farmers who, when they were going to HV practice, didn't get a large enough daily rate to cover the costs of dismissals. It's these, farmers and fishermen, who are going to be able to be with all over the country, who are going to be in and stand for a large part of the people's defense. And here, a person should be so close that they won't even get such a day's money that they can get away from doing their job. It may seem to me that the defense is investing more in high technology, out of area, while the territorial defence and maintenance of the defense of the people are going on chords against a kind of mercenary defense. We're relinquishing forces to Afghanistan, while 50 pst. by the people are opposed or at least concerned. This weakens legitimacy. Nybakk was involved in the legitimacy here in the staging room. But I want to ask, how is it with the legitimacy of the people?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e302	I am a little uncertain about what was the conclusion in the line of the representative Jacobsen. But first let me emphasize that I am absolutely sure that the Norwegian defence has great legitimacy in the Norwegian population, and has no reason to doubt it. In relation to the various forms of defence and preparedness, which I understood the representative was raising, I would like to remind you that we are going to deal with, in the spring, a big message about vulnerable society, i.e. vulnerability, and that we need to look at civil-military preparedness cooperation – in broad terms. As far as such preparedness is concerned, we will just have to stress that there are a lot of sectors that will be affected. We have to look at indiscriminateness, we have to look at everything, from the emergency situations via Home Security to the other part of Defence, i.e. the cooperation between civil and military preparedness. There is no contradiction between modern and high-tech defence. We have to have that with the threat images that exist today. And I believe that the change of defence that we have adopted will help to ensure that the defence is well equipped to meet precisely the new threat images that the technological, globalised and open, democratic society is facing. I would also like to emphasise, in relation to what the representative has to say about the local population and civil society, that Home Security is likely to have a completely different role in terms of vulnerability than it has been today. And put on the tip: it helps little to guard bridges on the border with Sweden if the threat is that you can drip a pipette with poison in the Maridal waters.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e311	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e314	First, I want to give recognition to the previous Defence Committee, which gave its position in June. Through the work in Stortinget, a good framework was laid for the defence activities over the next four years. Significant deficiencies in the defence proposal of the Labour Party government were corrected by a majority in the UK. Today's big business and our committee have been given the obligating task of putting the decisions of June into practice. We will deal with this work in close, constructive and not least optimistic and forward-looking cooperation with the Defence and Defence personnel and with the political and administrative leadership of the Ministry of Defence. NATO cooperation will, of course, lie as the very support of this work. If one can ever talk about the need to operate in teams and with optimism and good cooperation as a guide, then it will be in the immensely demanding, but the more important task it will be to bring the defense of our country into a state of predictability, security and robustness. The double imbalance cannot or will not continue. On the right-hand side, I can assure you that it is with great optimism and determination that we are going to this work. As always, the Right will invite as much as possible to a broad and committed cooperation on Defence. Our country, a small, but strategically and resource-relevant, northern border town of NATO and with a very large neighbour, needs agreement and coherence on defence and security policy. Right invites to such cooperation. Through its binding wording in the Sem Declaration, the Co-operation Board has laid the foundations for the implementation of the new structure. This work is already in full swing, and I would like to thank the Department of Defence's management, but not less the Chief of Defence and his staff of enthusiastic staff, who have gone into this process of progress, knowledge and determination. Conversion is both the keyword and the marslin in the process we are facing. Predictability and full political backing are the guarantee provided by the Defence and Defence personnel in this work. We also have something to offer – call it a carrot. Through the transition, we offer exciting and ethical high-quality jobs in the service of peace. We offer career opportunities and security in a high-tech environment. We offer participation at a high human and professional level in a world that is becoming ever smaller, and where peace and security can only be ensured in close interaction with our allies. Modern and motivated defence is the most important tool in this work. Defense is a matter of peace. As a smaller bracket, I would like to mention that this time too, unfortunately, we are experiencing some groups of concern and even suspicion and pessimism in the luggage in the conversion process that the defence is now facing. That SV, as usual, is on the sideline of the defense work, I put less emphasis on – it is most likely to be a quality sign. I also do not place the decisive emphasis on well-meaning defence friends feeling disappointed that after four weeks of government, the co-operation government could neither provide a fully funded race. But we should perhaps have been able to expect that the Progress Party, the third largest party in the Grand Duchy, would put aside the obstruction strategy and suspicion. The party usually claims that it defends the interests of the defence, and then undoubtedly a cut of DKK 2 billion in material investments in 2002 will be a little constructive. I both hope and believe that it is seen as more constructive when I lay down the right credibility in defence issues, together with the clear commitment of the Sem Declaration that the Cooperation Government will: ‘implement the conversion of defence in accordance with the structure adopted by the Storting and ensure that it is financed’. The fact that the Minister of Defence wants six months from command post in the Ministry of Defence to ensure the quality of the basis for the Storting decision should be found by most people to be both reassuring, understandable and necessary. It wasn't easy to get all the calculations under the previous regime, and the events on September 11 didn't make this any less necessary. At the same time, I would like to stress – and that is the most important thing – that the process of conversion in the defence is now in full and without delay. There is simply no room to convert, rationalize and practice at once. The security policy image enables us to implement with certainty the structural changes that have been adopted and that this work can be carried out with full force and intensity. Another solution could lead to frustration and invisibility. The size is given the follow-up proposition before Easter, and the Storting will treat it in good time before the summer holiday. I also assume that the Storting will have the follow-up to the Vulnerability Committee's setting in the same period. By doing so, the Cooperative Government and the Storting will have met yet another premise, namely that the long-term plans for defence and civil protection will be dealt with in the context. The terrorist attacks on New York and Washington on 11 September have not made this less important. The role of Home Security in particular may prove that the Storting was very predictable during treatment in June. So a little bit about the very extensive work the Defense is doing. The main objective is, as is known, to establish a defence structure which significantly improves operational capability. This requires new arrangements and prioritisation of defence investments. The annual operating costs of the defence must be reduced by at least NOK 2 billion. Such a gigantic conversion is possible only by means of strict discipline in relation to decisions: Organisation sites, garrisons and other structural elements adopted shall cease to exist at the same time as new activities are set up.The number of annual works shall be reduced by a minimum of 5000 compared to the number per year. 1 September 2000. Property, construction and equipment not included in the new structure shall be phased out and disposed of as far as possible. There's no room for new rematches! In 2002, the implementation of these comprehensive conversion measures will be a key task for the defence activities. Both the restructuring and the reduction of the central management of the defence will be an important and necessary part of the conversion. As you know, the new Armed Forces Staff shall be integrated and co-located with the Defence Command and the Ministry of Defence, with the result that the overall defence management will be reduced by a total of 50 pst. At the same time, a new command structure with almost the same downturn targets shall be established and radical changes in the structure and organisation of all defence sectors will be implemented. In parallel with these extensive conversion measures, the activity within the core areas of defence should, of course, be maintained. The defence shall carry out the production of strength necessary for the establishment of the structure we are going to have after the conversion. A crucial factor for motivation will be the retention of sufficient personnel with high and critical competence in the defence. I allow myself to repeat what I said about optimism, predictability and trust in the defence of this nuclear personnel. Through the increased structure adopted by the Stortinget in June, the task was of course not reduced by a reduced staff. I trust the defense will also solve this problem. In any case, the Spring Proposition will include additional measures in relation to this issue. The cooperative management requests trust and will provide trust back. The Cooperation Government, by the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, has as its overall objective the balance between tasks, structure and resource access. We are proud and humiliated to have been assigned this task by the people in elections. Of course, the conversion of the defence must not be seen independently of the conversion that is taking place in NATO. This conversion will undoubtedly be marked by the terrorist attacks against the United States on 11 September. As a NATO member, Norway has met an Article 5 situation for the first time, and it is extremely important for Norway's security that we fulfil our alliance obligations. Adaptation to NATO is an active process that ensures that the alliance remains central to the development of Euro-Atlantic cooperation. For Norway, we must, through active efforts, ensure that we retain the opportunities to receive effective and necessary allied support in the event of such a need. Of course, it is conditional on Norway being committed to our allies on important issues for the alliance. At the same time, Norway, as a non-member of the EU, must ensure its potential for influence and participation in the development of its own European defence identity in the bodies to which we have access. As head of the Norwegian Parliamentary Delegation to the OSCE, it is natural to stress the important role that the OSCE can play in the troubled corners of Europe and Asia. As we see, we are facing very significant challenges in terms of defence. With the change-over will and the pace of change in progress, and with confidence in the treatment of the spring proposition in the next six months, the Defense will be well equipped to fulfill the tasks the Defense will be faced in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e374	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e377	There was a lot we could get into an interesting article. But I would like to grasp what Hernæs started with, thanking the previous committee for a good framework for the structure and for this budget. And then it's with a little wonder I read in the evening post for Friday that the defense-political spokesman who was there and made this good decision calls it a "stupid game". He says that the right has tricked the voters by not finding the 925 million. kr as they found on 13 June. Then it's quite natural for me to ask why the Right can't do this. After all, I have said in my post that it is a little short time. But the 925 million. kr was at least found on June 13th, and then it can't be so very difficult to find them in December? It is a common diet for us in the Workers' Party that we get criticism of our defence budget. I can only remind you of some statements from the national meeting in his party last May, where they also used expressions such as that the Workers' Party was back to the policy of the used rifles. But I think the budget that Stoltenberg presented is a good budget. The right is going to have problems doing it better, and it's going to show up. So my question to Hernæs is, why in the world can't the Right can't find these 925 million. kr, to which the excellent committee had submitted last year, as Hernæs said.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e388	Of course, it could be an interesting exercise if we were to start mutually quoting what former members of our party groups have said about the defense. I don't think the Right would get very bad out of such a masculine equation, but I don't see that it helps the Defense today to take that angle. The representative Lund said that the Right cannot find that funding. The right has asked to be believed that we will have half a year, as I said in my post, from the command station in the Ministry of Defence to look at the background of the structure that was adopted in June. I want to maintain – and after Marit Nybakk’s contributions, I actually had to see it as a unified position from a practically total mass – that it was a good structure that was adopted in June. As Lund now puts it, I almost have to be able to perceive it there that Marit Nybakk and he have different opinions about it. The next point is that the Sem Declaration establishes, and not only from the Right, then it is from the three cooperating parties that the structure adopted is to be financed. And we just want the time we need, up to our proposition, to get those things in place. I assume that this might be revealed through the further debate. It is absolutely impossible for me to understand that the words that the representative Lund in his reply to me put in his mouth, are consistent with the view that the committee leader Marit Nybakk asserted in his post. But what is the Labour Party's position in relation to the adopted structure, we will hopefully be exposed during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e399	It is quite interesting to observe that both the Workers' Party and the Right spokespersons have registered and are very concerned that the Progress Party has cut the investment budget by NOK 2 billion, without mentioning that in a note we have proposed a fund of DKK 3.4 billion, just to cover such things, and that in our proposal for V we have asked for an order mandate of up to NOK 3 billion for equipment acquired abroad. We've transferred the $2 billion to the pointed end of the defense, which we, after all, are very concerned about, but which other parties seem to have less interest in. Our total alternative budget is much higher than both the Workers' Party and the Right. So we have made it possible to add more money to the pointed end in order to carry out the tasks that we have decided, after all, that we should do and that the Right has also been involved in adopting. The representative Hernæs also points to the importance of implementing the new structure, but he is not willing to grant the money. Then I have to ask: why does he not follow up the proposal made on behalf of the Right in this Chamber on 13 June of this year by the Right then Defence Policy Spokesman, Mr. Ingvald Godal: ‘The size assumes a frame of NOK 118 billion. for the defence budget for the next 4 years’; So it's going to be 30.4 billion dollars per year. years. That proposal was also endorsed by the Progress Party. So on that basis, I have to ask Hernæs how he's been thinking about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e411	Ongoing impatience is very often a good thing. But the representative Width will have to lubricate himself with patience to the spring proposition available. Then he will receive an answer to all the questions he asks in the Advent season. Otherwise, the Progress Party, we have to respect that, is very good at what they are good at, namely, to make proposals – which are voted down in the Stortinget. But there won't be any defense of it. There will be no defence of going beyond the framework set by a virtually unanimous increase in the use of the country's total resources. There won't be $2 billion of referring to a fund that doesn't exist except in baffling terms and in hopeful thoughts. The defense cannot exist in such a way, and after Wideth's reply I must say that I believe the committee leader hit the nail on her head when she spoke of us operating with two extremes in defence issues in Stortinget. It's very bad, and it should be completely unnecessary with regard to the Progress Party, which, at least verbally, confesses to the will of defence and the desire to take care of our defence. That is why I think I agree with the committee leader's call that it might now be an idea to use the pause we're getting to our proposal and to the Vulnerability Committee's position – whether it's a message or a proposition, I don't know – to think about whether it won't serve the defence of our country and Norway's security interests better to find a broad, affluent consensus on defence and security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e418	I noticed that the Right Defence Commissioner said it was a quality stamp that SV was not in. I can agree with your heart. This is primarily a quality stamp for SV. What we've seen in the last year is in many ways a counter-procedure of what you should have had. First, major material investments are adopted and then a plan for defence is adopted without even discussing in Stortinget the position of the Vulnerability Committee, led by Kåre Willoch, who is a party trap of Hernæs. The Vulnerability Committee addresses many of the threats facing civil society in Norway. That means that the old threat picture in which we have traditionally been trained exists, to a small extent, and that there are completely new threats facing civil society. There may be environmental disasters, there may be terrorist attacks against oil installations, there may be poverty in Russia, there may be ethnic unrest, and there may be religious fundamentalism. A great deal of what civil society is now facing challenges, the traditional Norwegian defenses will not be able to solve. That means, of course, that you should have dealt with all of these things in the opposite order. You should have started with: what are the threats to our society? How do we solve them? What investments will be made? How will long-term defence plans have to be dimensioned in order to meet this? This has not been answered by SV, and of course we are sorry for that. It makes very many of these debates, unfortunately, come in order that the conclusion is already drawn when you start discussing new threat images. What I would have liked me to challenge the representative here next is: if it turns out in the context of the treatment of the Vulnerability Committee that there will be a need for change not only in civil society, but also in the military organisation to meet new threat images, how does he see that it may be necessary to make changes to this? The representative, Hernæs, believes that the Norwegian defence per year. Today is rusted to capture the new threat images that everyone sees, perhaps especially after September 11th?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e427	There were several things to agree with SV i in this post. I think I must be allowed to say first that when SV talks about defence policy, I get an undivided association with hobby lawyer Sindre Piltingsrud. When he was interviewed on one occasion in Flåklypa Official Journal and asked what was his highlight, his greatest effort in life, he referred to his work of peace in 1932–39, which – as the hobbyist said – would bear the finest fruits if only the war had not been broken out! With regard to the specific issues, I agree in some areas of the heart: it is – and we have stated it in a relatively sharp order – bad that the Vulnerability Committee's position has remained in the departmental drawers for four years. What it must have done there, I should not say anything about it. The last time I was a member of the Defence Committee, it was one of the explicit premise that the suspension of the Vulnerability Committee, i.e. the long-term civil protection messages, and the long-term defence plans, should be dealt with in parallel. I do not agree that they should be in the opposite order, but I fully agree that it should happen at the same time, as it is now possible in the propositions and messages that come to spring. That's why the answer to the questions – also this time: No, I don't want to answer hypothetical issues that will exist as facts that we can deal with and deal with in a few months' time in the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e436	The president assumes that the representative did not have ambitions for a direct comparison with that hobby lawyer, but the associations were there enough. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e442	After all, it is nice to be called the tip of a Norwegian defence policy for a party that is willing to pay the majority in Stortinget in June. So on 13 June this year, we adopted the Innst. S. No 342 for 2000-2001 – or St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001, referred to as the Conversion of Defence in the period 2002-2005, also referred to as the Long-term Proposition. With the changes that were made during the treatment in Stortinget that day, the defense got a more expensive structure than intended, a structure that, according to the departmental and state council Godals, would then cost 30.4 billion kroner per. year, or NOK 121.6 billion in the period. Despite this, the Labour Party government submitted a budget far below the assumptions of their own Council of State. In the election campaign in front of this election, the Right was out with a high cigarette lead and great promises in relation to the Defense. The defense is pri. No One, the Right-President said. Similarly, the Minister of Defence has recently been out and promised more money to the Defence Agency, more money for the purchase of new fighter aircraft, etc. Then came the supplementary proposition, and the hopes were great. But to the great disappointment of many, not least of the defence's own employees, the supplementary proposition contained nothing but promises to the defense that one would return to the case. Those promises we've heard many, many times before, without anything happening. Rather, we have adopted defence structures for a number of years, but where the money never comes, which is the direct cause of the imbalance in defence between goals and means, which unfortunately the sitting government is now following up. ‘The Government... will ensure that the defence structure adopted by the Stortinge is financed’, reads among the few lines of the supplementary proposal on defence. Then I have to ask, when then? I have to repeat what I have already said in my frustration: it has been heard before. The government says it will continue what the previous government has already done – and that should not be difficult. This government believes exactly the same as the previous government, unfortunately for the Defence and Defence personnel. Given that the same is generally the case, it is no wonder that the Workers' Party and the Government embrace each other in the agreement not to introduce the Defense economy in order to implement the structure they have previously voted for. It is therefore not strange that the Workers' Party and the government parties have several common comments in the setting. The Progress Party shall have in all budgetary positions provided that there is consistency between objectives and resources, as well as this time. In the alternative budget of the Progress Party, we have proposed approx. SEK 1⁄2 billion more than the working party and the government parties. In addition to this, we refer to the Budget-inner. S. No 1 for 2001-2002, where the Progress Party proposed to establish a fund for material investment of DKK 3.4 billion. This would give the Defence the freedom of action they need in order to implement the necessary material investments and to establish an agreed structure, without prejudice to the domestic budget. The Progress Party believes that it is natural that large material acquisitions are financed outside the framework by such a fund. Proposition content, consultations and correspondence with the Ministry of Defence have shown that stockpiles of ammunition, spare parts and fuel are currently at a very critical level. Of course, this situation will have a major impact over time on the operational capability of the defence. The Ministry points out that this will mean that there is an urgent need to reduce the volume of the defence structure. The Progress Party will therefore strongly stress that it should not be the majority's under-budgeting over many years that will lead to a reduction in stocks and that will govern the defence structure. It must be the country's need for a defence based on security policy and defence policy realities to dimension a credible structure and not a random situation due to a failure to take long-term and predictable economic decisions. The defense is in a transition phase, and the defense itself says that they are in a tough time with big conversions and tight budgets. In the situation we're now in, where there's no match between goals and means, we've put the defense in a situation they can't live with. The Progress Party is concerned that there is today no political will in Norway to maintain a credible defence. The international community is constantly evolving and changing, and this is reflected in new power concentrations and new threats. This development brings with it new alliances between parties that have previously had a greater distance ideologically. The change has also led to greater conflict resolution than in the past by carrying out armed action against the causer of the conflict through alliances, directly or indirectly with support from several countries. In this way, it is now more or less accepted that elements that threaten common interests are jointly stopped, even across defence alliances. The defence's task has traditionally been to prepare an invasion defence of Norway. There has also been a limited exercise in international efforts. Whether Norway currently has a real invasion defence is highly questionable. Whether we are able for a limited period to delay an invasion or to exercise limited resistance to an unwanted intrusion is also highly doubtful and is a problem that needs to be addressed by today’s under-budget. There has been a lot of talk lately about a new security situation in the world. The enemy is now more invisible and difficult to predict, and thus difficult to protect from. It is therefore very difficult for me to understand that we in Norway today are deprioritising the defence to the extent that we do now. It is necessary to maintain a certain size of defence, and this size has been adopted in the Storting and described in the Defence Study 2000. The tasks and the situation underpinning this study and the decision underpinning the development of defence have today been somewhat altered as a result of international developments. An argument that we don't need bigger forces, but small flexible units, I think is a misunderstood issue. Of course, we need small flexible units, but we also need to be able to provide larger, coordinated forces if a situation requires it. So it's not about either. It is therefore important that we now look at the defence tasks and challenges in a new light. It is important to now be trained and trained in view of the new situation, where Norway needs to be more prepared to participate in international missions. The general defence structure must also be seen in relation to the new threat. This probably implies that one has to consider other threat images against more urban strokes, infrastructure and oil installations, etc. This will require the Defence that it must be prepared to move units in a short time to areas exposed to threats or actions. This places great demands on the mobility capacity and flexibility of the organisation. Therefore, in view of this, within the agreed framework, the Progress Party has re-disposaled more financial resources at the sharp end of the Defence. In our proposal, the money is disposed of from the item «Larger equipment acquisitions», which we believe should possibly be added via additional appropriations. I would like to refer here to our proposal for V, Orders, where we agree to exceed the capped appropriations. 1760, item 45, Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance of up to NOK 3 billion for equipment acquired abroad. In relation to what I mentioned earlier about our ability to do, among other things. to be able to move units in a short time, I refer you to our proposal, no. 3, on the matter of acquiring new transport aircraft as soon as possible, and further refers to the existence of a very good offer from the United States, which, however, requires a rapid response from the Norwegian authorities. Finally, I would like to make the proposals from the Progress Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e485	Per Ove Width has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e490	The party of progress has long viewed itself as a defence-friendly party. The reason is that they say they have taken the defense seriously and on the word. The defence is in what is referred to as the ‘double imbalance’. One part of this imbalance is the relationship between operation and investment. The Progress Party itself points out this imbalance in the budgetary position, as the rest of the Committee does. But in the budget, the Progress Party is moving in the direction that they themselves are warning against. How can the Progress Party, on the one hand, warn against exacerbating the imbalance between operations and investment at one moment, and then take SEK 2 billion from the investment chapter at the next? It must be to move towards its own policy. I expect that the representative of the Progress Party will argue that they will strengthen the defence budget and that the criticism should not apply to them. However, under the given framework, the Progress Party is exacerbating the imbalance between operation and investment. Does the representative, Mr Width, see that their proposals in the budget do just that? I wonder if the representative Width is aware that he is now in the same situation as SV, with a lot to run and little to invest, i.e. a backpack defense and not a new technological defense, in which the rest of NATO is now investing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e495	Yes, the Progress Party is, as the representative Halvorsen says, a defence-friendly party. There has not been any contribution from the Labour Party. On the other hand, they have gone from the decision in Stortinget of 13 June that they themselves were behind, and sub-budgets once again what they have been involved in structuring. Halfway says we take NOK 2 billion from operating and investing. Yes, we do, but we're adding at least the same amount. It says to read, and it's strange that Halvorsen hasn't discovered it. And in my post I referred to our suggestions. That they may not be adopted because the Workers' Party and the government parties do not want to strengthen the Defence Party, the Advance Party cannot do anything about it, but at least we have proposed more money to the Defence Party than both the government parties and the representative of Halvorsen's own party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e500	Let me first give praise to the Advancement Party because, together with the Right throughout the 1990s, they have been hot spokespersons for the Norwegian defence. However, the proposal for investment appropriations for 2002 is just over DKK 6.2 billion, and the Progress Party proposes a budget cut of DKK 2 billion for next year. I am aware that the Progress Party has proposed a fund of approx. 3,4 billion kroner, but – with all due respect – this proposal did not get a majority, and the fund would certainly hardly have given such a high return that it could have covered the two billions for next year. In the light of the rose I gave initially, I would say that I feel that the Progress Party, when it comes to the budget for next year, now has both feet safely planted in loose air. And then is my question to the representative Width: What are the already adopted investment projects that the Progress Party would recommend to the defence leadership to cut out in 2002?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e507	It's nice to get praise. I can't return it to the Right, unfortunately, because I see the Right this time on a line that they haven't previously laid down on. They have followed the same line as the Workers' Party, which they have strongly criticised in previous negotiations here in the United Kingdom. So now they're in position and they're doing the exact same thing, and that's how it works is pretty interesting to observe. When we have reduced the investment budget and we propose to take the money out of the budget if there is a need for it, it is not to weaken the budget. It's taking away investment and adding the pointed end, which the other parties obviously won't be on. So they're not interested in strengthening the Army, the Marine Defense, the Air Force, the Home Guard, the Salvation Helicopter Service and the Coast Guard. It's only the Progress Party that points to these things, and that will give money to this very thing. When it is pointed out that it is a proposal that has fallen into Stortinget, it is not quite right. It has never been proposed to set up a fund, but it has been a committee comment, and there are two different things. So there's never been any vote over this, but it's inside as a comment. What we've done is we've moved money, which the defense must be able to dispose of itself. We're not going to control the defense to the extent that we're going to say they're going to put in there and subtract there. They have to figure this out for themselves. We have to be able to leave that to the Defense. But we've added that money again that we're moving within the investment framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e516	SV wants a defense that can defend us against the real threats to our security. The defense today does not do it sufficiently. Therefore, the future defence needs to be changed. There is a need for a shift in understanding that environmental damage, poverty problems and violations of human rights are today the main global security challenges. We're not going to solve these challenges with the use of weapons. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Width, the following question: how has the Progress Party taken up the new threat picture, and how is this made visible in the budget presented by the Progress Party today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e523	In any case, SV has not added anything to this budget in relation to the modified threat picture, rather on the contrary. The SV reduces the budget. SV has no defence culture and no defence history. They're only concerned with depriving the defense. And I'm really wondering how they are, for example. intended to meet this in the context of NATO. Has SV now come into the situation that they will propose that Norway leave NATO, which they themselves have programmed, but which they prefer not to talk much about in the situation we are now in, with the strange threat images we have? It could have been very interesting to get an answer to that. Now I'm not going to ask, I'm going to answer, but maybe on another occasion. As I said, SV has not added anything. What we've done is strengthen the budget. So we have an alternative budget that is stronger, and we have added more money to follow the structure that has already been adopted, than the other parties in the Great Britain have done. We have added the sharp end to the Defense more money, which we believe is very important in the threat situation we are now in. But as I have said in my post, and as others have also said, there is something new that has emerged, and we must take that inward into the time that is coming. I hope in that connection that there will be a proposition from the Government for the autumn, but I am not very optimistic about it. But if not, I can promise that the Progress Party will address exactly that issue much more seriously than what has been done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e530	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e533	SV wants a defense that can defend us against the real threats to our security. The defense today does not do it sufficiently. Therefore, the future defence needs to be changed. There is a need for a shift that takes more account of the fact that environmental damage, poverty problems and violations of human rights are today the main global security challenges. We're not going to solve these challenges with the use of weapons. In the original budget statement of the SV, as it appears in the budget entry. S. In, that is, Roman numbers and not Arab numbers, as we've been hurt by writing, a proposal has been made for a framework for defence that is 2.8 billion dollars lower than the majority. This is not a dramatic cut, but, in our opinion, a realistic framework for the defence of Norway in the threat situation we are in. We make the biggest cuts in investment, especially on equipment such as frigates and tanks, construction and construction, but also on the development of the Eastern Region and the Mauken/Blatin link. SV is of the opinion that the region of Eastern Europe must be stopped, in particular because of the changes in the conditions of use that will create more noise and run-off of heavy metals, but also because of the large natural values that lie in this area, and that we should be able to cooperate more closely with the Swedes in their training fields in the Älvdalen. In SV, we believe that the investments made in the defence are too much tied up to the concept of the defence of the past, where invasion from the east was seen as the greatest threat. At a time when terrorist attacks against civilian targets appear to be the most serious threat, these investments do not appear to be particularly targeted, to put it mildly. They seem to be more fond of having the principle than it is necessary. SV has also highlighted a number of other factors, which together constitute the threat situation in Norway and which form the safety policy framework for our proposals. SV is in favour of increased allocations to the Home Guard, Coast Guard and rescue helicopters. A glance at the map is enough to show that coastal protection for Norway is important. Not only do we have a long coastline, but we also have very important industrial interests to defend in terms of fishing and oil installations. It's paradoxical that the Coast Guard doesn't have enough budgets to use 100 pst. the vessels we actually have. And there's no shortage of Coast Guard duties. Today, Norway is responsible for more than 2.2 million km2 of seas, a sea area seven times the size of mainland Norway. Our coast is 57 000 km long, and together our total sea and land areas are 30 pst. of Europe. In these coastal and marine areas, we have the world's largest fisheries if we include farming. So Norway manages one of the world's most important food vats. Our oil and gas production is also in these seas. It too is among the largest in the world. Our marine areas are exposed to fish fraud, breakdowns and oil spills. Congratulations have prevented us from having major accidents. If someone wanted to run an oil tank into the rocks somewhere along the Norwegian coast, we would face a disaster that would hit the vulnerable ecosystems for decades to come and greatly reduce food production. How are we going to protect these marine areas so that we can make the best use of the resources that lie there? In relation to threats to this, we cannot see that frigates are what are going to happen. Should there be a threat to an oil installation, as Dagbladet writes today, or, perhaps even more realistically, to a gas pipeline to hit the important energy supply to Europe, frigates will not be crucial. Different teams have found that the frigates are part of a concept to which Stortinget has not taken a sufficient position. The new strategic concept of NATO has so far been far too little discussion. It has obvious weaknesses in relation to international law that we cannot live with. SV has been and is very critical of NATO’s new strategic concept of access to operations outside its own territory. We believe that NATO here assumes a function that the United Nations should have. We've wasted billions and can throw away new ones without getting a step closer to security, precisely because the majority of the Biggest has not taken up enough of what is the real security challenges our society is facing. A alert alert to follow-up of the Vulnerability Committee is hopefully just around the corner. In SV we have great hopes for that work. In the beginning of the autumn budgetary procedure, SV had the following challenge for Prime Minister Bondevik and the Government: not to allow a crown to the Progress Party until the perspectives of the Vulnerability Committee have been properly reviewed and addressed in the Stortinget. We are pleased that in this round there has not been the addition to the defence budget that the Right and others have indicated that they see the need. In the opinion of the SV, our defence policy needs to focus much more strongly than it is today. the following points: Firstly, how are we to secure our vulnerable Norwegian oil installations against terrorism and sabotage? Secondly, what kind of preparedness must we establish to ensure sources of drinking water against poisoning? Thirdly, how can we defend ourselves against chemical and biological warfare? Then what kind of preparedness do we need to take to secure ourselves – not against a Russian invasion, but against nuclear accidents, cargo, illegal trafficking and the smuggling of radioactive material? And finally, how can we ensure communication and electricity supply at a time when computer technology is increasingly crucial to these important societal functions? Most of us have until now saved us from serious virus attacks that can erase our personal hard drive on our PCs, but computer viruses and hackers become an increasingly serious and costly threat to an increasingly vulnerable society. At the same time, Norwegian politicians are required to have a self-esteem of what works and are acceptable instruments in the international fight against terrorism. So far, the majority of people have been busy with one thing: to end up loyally about the United States and trust that the Americans know what they're doing. This doesn't last. I am amazed at all those who say that the war in Afghanistan has been a success. We know a little bit about that. In particular, we know little about whether the war may have led to the recruitment of new terrorists. The lessons from, among others, The Gulf War is also that the damage to civil society was far more extensive than what happened during the war. SV has long called for a longer-term thinking. The world is full of dangerous conflicts, including: because the major powers have not seen any further moves forward. Saddam Hussein was supported by the West to defeat Iran. Osama bin Laden was recruited by the CIA to strike back the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. And everyone can see that Israel will be subjected to terror and threats as long as the Palestinians do not get their fair peace. We are about to have a break to attend the Nobel Peace Prize to the UN and Kofi Annan. I also want to pay tribute to the winner, as others have done before me today. The most important work we can do for international peace and security must be to extend the UN to a real gathering of the world community. The UN must be made the central framework for global cooperation on security, the environment, the economy and human rights, and freedom of action and authority must be strengthened. As a small country, Norway has a strong interest in an international legal order, built on international law and linked to the UN. The major global challenges require more extensive international cooperation. The UN is and should be the central framework for such cooperation, and it must be an important task for Norway to contribute to a more democratic UN with heavier instruments. SV has proposed to cut the defence budget by SEK 2.8 billion. For us, it is more important to spend this money in other areas, such as education, the environment and research, on the road to the green knowledge society. We believe that there is still room for considerable rationalisation of the Norwegian defence, and note that the Socialist Left's proposal for a framework has fallen on this chapter. SV will vote against the current voting setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e580	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e583	I think I would first like to express my pleasure at the fact that SV is once again a member of the Defence Committee. It was a little sad in the last period when SV did not prioritize the defence committee. We can say that we have gone from Ketil Bjørn to Kjetil Bjørklund. I would say that it has been a pleasant acquaintance, and I think it was a good post that was made today. What's a little sad is that SV leaves the framework, and so we really don't know what SV stands for in defence policy. We know from the financial situation that SV will cut NOK 2.8 billion, which the representative Bjørklund was in. He was also in his post on a number of priorities. When do we get a kind of defence manifesto from SV, and not just no to everything, no to shooting field and no to investment? My question is, what is SV's defence policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e590	SV wants a defense that can defend us against the real threats to our security. Environmental damage and poverty problems are today the most fundamental safety challenges. SV therefore believes that the defence must be changed so that we can defend ourselves against these real threats, cf. what I said in my main post about e.g. ensuring our vulnerable sea areas and oil installations and nuclear accidents in the northern regions. SV will have a total defence where a large part of the guardians can work for peace, development and the environment. SV will have a defence based on a general duty of protection. Protection obligations as a basis for recruitment to the Defence have many advantages, in particular because a defence based on a general duty of protection becomes more firmly anchored in the population. SV is pleased that the Storting adopted a third category of protection obligations this year, and will work for us to get good arrangements based on this decision, which gives more sense of making an important effort for peace and security nationally. SV wants a more defensive defense, and is in favour of a neutral Nordic outside the big power blocs and the military alliances. Norway has been an important contributor to resolving international conflicts through the UN, and SV will work for a more democratic UN with heavier instruments that enable it to address global security policy challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e595	I would like to join the representative of Halvorsen's glad that SV is back in the Defence Committee. Then we can get a good deal of reprisals for many previous debates. Now the representative Bjørklund says that SV is opposed to NATO's new strategic concept. That is an interesting wording. If there is a recognition that SV is in favour of a NATO with the old strategies – there are probably a few years behind schedule, but it is not so unusual from the gerly defense as SV foreshadowed in the earliest times of its existence and also in the future – they may at least have come so far that they can join NATO as a concept that it is just NATO as it is today, they are against, while NATO as it was before, they are too. It is correct in sharp contrast to what the previous Ketil – Rolf Ketil Bjørn – asserted when he sat on the Stortinget. The representative, Halvorsen, asked an absolutely hopeless question as to whether SV has any defence policy. I note that they too spend well over 25 billion dollars on defence. They're not supposed to have frigates to protect our coastline. What kind of ships are what you think in SV, just to take a small and completely delimited area? When one sees all sorts of possible vulnerabilities along our large seas, it might be interesting to hear what kind of vessels we were going to use for defense, and what number, and what training and what tasks they actually should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e604	It was a commendable attempt by the representative Hernæs. In the case of boats along the coast, SV will primarily strengthen the Coast Guard, which we have pronounced countless times. As far as NATO membership is concerned, it's true that SV has the principle view that we're against NATO membership, and that's a view we share with, for example. Youth Organisation of the Workers' Party, AUF. However, we take note that there is a clear majority in Norway that is in favour of NATO, and a clear majority for this in the Stortinget as well. We also believe that when Norway is a member of an international organisation with which we have entered into commitments, something more is needed before we break these agreements. It is clearly problematic for a NATO Member State to say no when an Article 5 situation is defined, but it is also problematic when this is determined as quickly as we saw in the situation we have now been in, and when the Member States do not have the opportunity to consult their parliaments in view of this. It must also be stressed that this is the first time since 1949 that Article 5 has been in force and that there is no practice in this field. We ask questions about how it was decided that there was now an Article 5 situation. We agreed that Norway should stand up and contribute to the fight against terrorism and against the perpetrators of the September 11 attacks. But we believe that Norway was not necessarily obliged to engage in war in Afghanistan, and that it would be possible for us to take a critical position on this in NATO, without it being considered as a deportation request. Moreover, we have been and we are very critical of NATO's new strategic concept of access to operations outside its own territory. We believe that NATO, as said earlier, assumes a function that the United Nations should have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e611	I would also like to welcome SV into the Defence Committee. It's always important to see a case from at least two sides, and we'll probably get to know that eventually. The Socialist Left Party is and will be what they have always been in defence: they want to reduce the means of defence and thus the ability of defence to carry out the tasks imposed on them by the majority of the Stortinge. This is to the extent that we're good for the others, because we know what SV stands for. But does the representative not see that what happened on 11 September has changed the world in both good and evil, and according to our NATO membership, Article 5 requires a good and effective defence, which requires a defence budget that is so that the defence tasks can be resolved? Otherwise, the representative Bjørklund’s contributions were marked by environmental protection and other protection, but perhaps not so much of the content of the matter here today – the future and the content of the defence. So what does 11 September mean for SV's future Norwegian defense?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e618	On 11 September, Article 5 of this Article will be connected. As everyone knows, SV has been the party in Stortinget that has held a different line with regard to the relationship with the conflict that has occurred in Afghanistan. When the United States asked for support to bomb one of the world's poorest countries, a country where war has been raging for more than 20 years, SV said no, while in all other parties in Norway this thing was scouring – the United States is always right. SV has options for bombing. That's probably the core of the answer to the representative's question. SV's option was to focus on the following in the short term: increased international cooperation to apprehend people who were guilty of terrorist acts on 11 September or who might be planning new work to stop financing terrorist activities intensifying the efforts to obtain a political solution in the Middle East, Kashmir, possibly other relevant conflicts to negotiate with the Taliban that could lead to the extradition of Osama bin Laden, although we were fully aware that the Taliban regime has not been particularly easy to negotiate with, and that there has been criticism from the international community with a debt pull But there were not very wholehearted attempts in that situation to get negotiations going. The international community had not done enough to contribute to political change in Afghanistan before 11 September. The sanctions did not work, and UN agencies had begun to ask questions about the appropriateness of the sanctions. So there was every reason to review the measures against the Taliban, but full war was not the answer. It is still the position of the SV that there are alternatives in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e642	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e645	«A timely defence of national security and international engagement», the Chief of Defence shall have stated as his vision. It is important that it is not a slogan, but a measure taken seriously as intention and guidance throughout the system. It is essential to have common objectives to succeed in the implementation of the demanding reorganisation under way by the Defence Agency. The stuttering had a thorough review of the defense during the treatment of St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 in June this year. It was then adopted a larger structure than the government had proposed. Both the previous and the current government found it most appropriate to return to Stortinget with their own proposition in spring 2002, instead of in the budget proposal and the additional proposition now in the harvest. Ensuring a balance between defence tasks, structure and access to resources is important and the announced proposal will propose additional measures to achieve this balance. In addition, there are proposals for longer-term measures to combat and finance terrorism. The defence needs a stable and predictable framework to succeed in its important work. In the Sem Declaration, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left have said that they will ensure that the defence structure adopted by the Storting will be financed. The conversion shall lead to a significant improvement in the operational capability of the Defence. This is a function of the response capacity, mobility, fighting ability and endurance of the forces and shall enable the defence to respond appropriately to a given situation. Operational capability depends on factors such as level of exercise and training, the quality and quantity of material and the suitability of management, command and control apparatus. All these factors will be improved through the whole of the conversion as planned. In addition to implementing the reversal of the defence, the activity of core activities shall be maintained. The defence shall also maintain the production of strength necessary to achieve the established strength structure. It is equally important that sufficient critically qualified personnel remain in the Defence. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway's defence and security will continue to be firmly anchored in NATO. NATO cooperation will have a high priority in 2002. The conversion of defence must also be seen in the context of NATO's role in European security and stability and the needs, requirements and obligations of Norway's NATO membership. Norwegian security interests are strongly dependent on NATO and the transatlantic links. The terrorist attack on the United States in September this year shows that all the Allied countries are directly affected by threats and attacks affecting one of them. Norway must demonstrate its will and ability to contribute actively in the fight against terrorism. Norway will participate actively when the alliance membership so requires, and contribute resources that the alliance collectively needs. Such involvement will also enhance the ability to defend Norwegian territory and Norwegian security interest. Both Norway and other countries need to defend themselves through a demanding transformation and efficiency in order to better address the challenges facing us in the new international threat picture, not least in terms of counter-terrorism. The ability to deal with new security threats needs to be strengthened. Modern and flexible defence is also a nationally balanced defence, underpinning the concept of total defence. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that the total defence should be revitalised and cooperation between the civil and military sectors developed, in order to make the best use of the overall resources. Together, military defence and civil protection shall support and complement each other at a central, regional and local level in such a way that citizens and communities are best protected both in crisis and in disaster, in peacetime and in war. Both defence and civil protection have objectives that facilitate this holistic approach. Strong interdependence between defence and civil protection implies the importance of harmonised planning. Equally important is that it is based on the same threat assessment and perception of reality. The government will coordinate the threat to the security of the Kingdom on the basis of intelligence information on terrorism, murder and organised crime, and there must be a political responsibility anchored in the Government. Openness to the population if the threat picture is necessary. It suggests that it is important at the same time to disseminate information on the overall defence. It will be part of and build up the necessary opinion and knowledge base and will allow more people to contribute to the defence work. Some of us also believe that there should be a compulsory course on the total defence for both girls and boys. Today, despite the principle that the activities responsible for a sector in peace are also responsible for the necessary preparation and implementation of measures in crisis and war, it is primarily the military and the particularly interested who are being trained on the ground of total defence. An overall committee has noted that the role of Home Affairs needs to be considered separately in the notified public security and preparedness report. The budget for social security and preparedness is presented by the Ministry of Justice, but dealt with by the Defence Committee, and I have been the case rapporteur for the area. The chapter was given more money in the additional proposition. There is an overall committee on all the notes, but the Progress Party also has a special comment. The Directorate of Civil Protection, in cooperation with the county officials, shall strengthen the ability of municipalities to deal with crises. The preparedness work in many municipalities needs more State assistance and guidance on quality assurance and empowerment measures. The Civil Defense Task Force shall have annual exercises below. New practice concept will be based on the current threat situation. There's also an increase. The replacement of worn-out material is necessary both to carry out exercises and to ensure that it is well prepared. Necessary material must be available at all times. That is why the budget has been increased. Protective masks are important, and the increased appropriations are replaced. The civil defence warning system has now been assessed in the light of events in the United States. This has led to a necessary upgrade that is intended to cost 30 million. kr. The appropriations for 2002 are therefore increased by 15 million. kr. As mentioned above, a comprehensive communication on social security and preparedness will be provided, addressing device, dimension, responsibilities and governance premises. The terrorist acts targeting the United States on 11 September indicate a time gap in both national and international security and preparedness work. There is no doubt that the acts of terrorism have aroused many, which today's debate is also marked by. The Communication also reviews the overall need for civil protection resources and the necessary preparedness of the police. Finally, the focus of defence activities will be the implementation of a fundamental change of defence. The main objective is to establish a new defence structure that significantly improves operational capability. This requires, inter alia: a new facility and prioritisation of the investments of the Defence. It is the defense itself that must take the tough job it is to change. Then it will be our job to facilitate that it can be carried out in the best possible way. The Christian People's Party is in the committee's recommendation for a decision, and I therefore ask the Christian People's Party's representatives to vote in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e700	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e703	I share the views of the representative on the overall defence, and I also look forward to working together on the processing of the big message based on the Vulnerability Committee's position, which we hope will not get too long, where my opinion, among other things, is. is that we need to look at management and coordination responsibilities, and of course at the relationship between civil and military preparedness. However, I have another question for the representative Wisløff Nilssen. A process of reorganization as demanding as the one we now see in Defence must have a predictable framework. It also means that we need a wide-ranging defence policy settlement to make this happen, a settlement that we, among other things, need. has seen in our neighbouring country Denmark. I would like to ask the representative if she shares that view, and whether she also believes that such a settlement should be as broad as possible. A minimum must be the current government parties and the Workers' Party, hopefully the Center Party, and then we'll see what the Progress Party is capable of contributing. I'm saying this because in Innst. S. No Unfortunately, 342 for 2000–2001 did not reach the broad consensus on a comprehensive approach. I would therefore like to ask one of the representatives of the government coalition in the Defence Committee, the vice-chairman of the Committee, whether she will help us to reach such a settlement, get a broad consensus. Then the Workers' Party is also going to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e713	It is a demanding reorganisation The defence is in progress, and I fully agree with the committee leader that predictability is becoming absolutely essential in order to achieve it. That is why I also agree that a broad settlement, a broad consensus, is very important to get this predictability and to get a stable progress in relation to the defence. It will also be exciting to get more up-to-date on how to do this in Denmark. Perhaps we can learn some of that, but I look forward to a good debate in the committee as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e725	It is so difficult to attack the defence policy of the Christian People's Party, as it is somewhat round, I see, and slip into the cooperation partners' budgets and remarks. But it says, among other things, reading that it is important to ensure a balance between defence tasks, structure and not least funding. This is something the Progress Party does not understand that the Christian People's Party can handle when they are involved in a clearly underbudgeted defense. Perhaps the answer from the Christian People's Party can be found in the warning of further rationalization. In the Christian People's Party there are any plans or thoughts that more camps or military installations will be removed from the military map in the following years, or how will the Christian People's Party be able to defend this savings? Otherwise, the representative might also have some thoughts about boys and girls in the defense. Is the Christian People's Party perhaps concerned with the idea of having a duty of protection for girls? I also noticed that there were some thoughts that we need to strengthen NATO cooperation. Of course, the Advance Party is very happy that the Christian People's Party has thoughts and plans about it, and we want to be part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e732	In terms of the defence's tasks, we come back to the balance of the announced proposition. And then it says in the Sem statement, which I also mentioned in my post, that we are in favour of financing the structure adopted by the Stortinget in ours. But we have to wait for the proposition and take that review then. With regard to the duty of protection for girls, I can say that the women of the Christian People's Party would like to have a duty of protection for girls, but in the Christian People's Party we have not discussed it thoroughly enough yet. What I meant in my post was just as much about the overall defence concept – that part of us is missing something because we're not in the military, and not getting in the total defence and preparedness that we really need in the job when we're going to have a responsibility for preparedness in crisis and war. There I have some experiences myself that shocked me, and that's what also makes me see the importance of good information to everyone to make it slip as close as possible when the crisis is first there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e739	The need for the establishment of the Eastern Region has changed dramatically following the reorganisation of the Defence. The need for shooting areas can be resolved by the use of existing fields in Norway or by the rental of shooting areas capacity in Sweden. In addition, the changing assumptions with the increased use of the KFOR field and the effort forces trigger a dramatic increase in the use of ammunition and noise in the area. The current government has stated that they have great ambitions on behalf of the environment. The Eastern Region is a very environmentally hostile project. The field consists largely of ants, and the increased use of ammunition will lead to a dramatic increase in emissions of heavy metals, which will leak into the watercourses of Rena and Osa. In addition, the economic consequences of the establishment of the field are unclear. I would like to ask the representative Wisløff Nilssen whether she believes that the development of the Eastern Region is in line with the government's stated ambitions in the environmental field.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e744	It's no secret that the Christian People's Party and I personally opposed the Eastern Region and the expansion of shooting and practice fields. But in the Storting we got into a minority, and there's still a majority in the Storing who want this shooting and practice field. Then it is very important that we work constructively to minimise the damage. That's where I think SV and we have common interests. The Christian People's Party has asked for a new estimate of costs, an overall financial framework, for the whole project. And we expect that to happen. Noise is a problem that also concerns those who are affected, and I think it's a bit challenging what we've heard lately, that Osen might have to be removed. These are the things we need to clarify – not least with heavy metal pollution, which has increased dramatically according to the information we have received. It's also a big problem. There must also be normal environmental arrangements in relation to this field of shooting and practice. I expect that to be taken care of, and that we will also receive a briefing from the Ministry of Defence on what it is like when they come so far. You also have to apply for concessions. I had probably seen that one had waited until they had been there, not to throw out a lot of money in a few things, but we'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e749	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e752	The defence is faced with enormous challenges in order to cope with the fundamental transformation of its activities resulting from the decisions taken by the Stortinget in connection with the Innst. S. No 342 for 2000-2001. In several areas, changes were made to the Government’s proposal for a future defence structure. This has meant that the total expenditure of the Defence Force during the long-term planning period will be greater than that foreseen in St. Prp. No 45 for 2000-2001, and approximately DKK 3 billion higher than proposed appropriations in next year's budget. Thus, the additional costs resulting from Stortinget’s treatment have not been proposed either by the government of Stoltenberg or by the government of Bondevik. This is a significant weakness in the submitted budget. The defence has, throughout the 1990s – under changing governments, I have to add – worn out with a so-called double imbalance: a significant imbalance between the tasks the Storting expects the defence to take care of and the appropriations granted through the annual budgetary procedures. This practice may now appear to continue, despite the fact that all the parties in our strong expression of the need to correct this double imbalance and ensure the adequate provision of financial resources for the implementation of the decisions taken by the Stortinget. I record that both the outgoing and the sitting government have announced an additional proposition for the spring. In the light of the relatively substantial changes made by Innst. S. No 342 and the change of government of the autumn, of course, I understand that the department needs some more time. However, I assume that the decisions taken are followed up and are the basis for the dimensioning of our future defence. The wording on page 118 of the supplementary proposal of the Government of Bondevik can be interpreted as a rematch scheme when it is said that: ‘come back to the Storting in the spring session with proposals for actions that will further contribute to rationalising and modernising the defence organisation and structure’. It is also the same wording that the government of Stoltenberg used. Through the treatment of St.prp. No 45 it was made apparent that the different parties naturally had different priorities in relation to the dimensioning of the future defence. Of course, the centre party will also argue in future for the defence structure we believe is the most appropriate, taking into account the security policy situation at all times. I also assume that the other parties will do the same thing. But I would warn against letting such disunity overshadow the need and opportunities to reach agreement on future financing. Like several speakers here today, I would like to point out the need for us now to be able to pool ourselves on a common decision that will enable the needs of the defence to be financed in relation to the majority decisions taken in this Chamber. It must be possible to disagree on the matter and it must be possible to disagree on the design of the future defence, but it must nevertheless agree to provide a framework for both financing and implementation of the structure adopted. The centre party will help to make this possible. A broad consensus on the economic framework that ensures the necessary progress in the conversion of defence will strengthen our position as an ally, and it will be an important signal to the defence staff that defence will continue to be an attractive and modern workplace in the future. It will be a necessary contribution to the long-term maintenance of the broad defence will upon which we, as a nation, are dependent. This means that I consider this year's budgetary procedure to be almost a break and therefore, in my contribution, have not dealt with the facts of the matter. I await with excitement the proposition that will be presented to the spring. I assume that there will be a proposition and not a message, as the representative hereafter suggested, as additional funding has also been signalled to ensure consistency between structure and funding. Finally, I would like to put forward proposal No. Four from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e772	Odd Roger Enoksen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e777	A review tone in this debate is that we all look forward to it becoming bright and springy, and that we get an additional proposition. I noticed that the representative stressed that, regardless of whether we had to have different views on the defence structure, we should gather on joint funding decisions when the proposition comes. I would like to stress that I think it is important that we remove the imbalance that now exists between structure, volume and funding, and that that must be the main objective. I would like to ask whether the representative shares that view, and whether he also agrees with the target achieved on 13 June, on operating savings of DKK 2 billion per year. years and a manning reduction of at least 5000 annual works and a better balance between investment and operation. I ask about this because I don't ignore that in the additional proposition that comes to spring, we also get some adjustments that we have to take our position on. I would appeal that we try to agree both on the structure that lies there and on the financing of it, so that the defense now gets calm and knows what they have to deal with. This applies not least to all of the thousands of employees who are now facing a reorganization that is, in part, going to be painful, but that will give us a more modern defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e784	I share, as I also said in my main post, the view of the representative Nybakk on the need to reach a broad consensus to the extent that it will be possible in this Chamber, both in terms of structure and funding. In fact, I believe that to some extent it may be possible to see these two relationships independently, so that one can gather around a broadest possible settlement on funding, even if we disagree on structure. The relatively extensive changes adopted by the Stortinge in spring appeared during the hectic period of St. Prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 was addressed, to be difficult for the Ministry to calculate the exact impact of the economic and future structure. It is therefore not entirely unlikely that there is a misunderstanding between the size of the structure decision and the ambition to reduce operating costs by NOK 2 billion and the number of personnel by 5000. I will reserve the right to come back to that, and have a closer view of, when we see the proposal submitted by the Government for spring. However, for the Central Party, the structural decisions taken by the Stortinget in the spring, which involve a need for more funding, will primarily guide further work. If it turns out that it is not possible to achieve the structure with a staff reduction of 5000 and with an operating reduction of NOK 2 billion, then we are willing to look at that extent, but, as I said, see it in a total context when this matter is presented to the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e792	First of all, a little misunderstanding. I didn't mean to create any doubt that there's a proposition we get regarding the Defense of Spring. I have expressed some uncertainty as to whether there is a proposition or a message we get regarding the Vulnerability Committee's setting. But if I have understood the Minister of Justice correctly, there is a message we get in that area. The representative, Mr Enoksen, said that he regards this budget as a ‘sleep cutting’. That's only partly correct, because there's now a full pace of conversion in all the defense's organs. All the decisions adopted in June now work towards the end of the government and the leadership of the defense of all the forces to put an end to them – organizational sites, garrisons and other structural elements that have been adopted. The number of annual works shall be reduced by at least 5000 men, and properties and constructions should be phased out and disposed of as far as possible. So it's a resting-point with clear reservations attached to that name. When it happened otherwise to the article to Enoch, it was a pleasure to hear it. In general, the centre party joins the setting, with the exception of some very small immaterialities. And just to underline it, it's not like the Progress Party has claimed, that the Cooperation Government has joined the proposals of the Workers' Party, because the Workers' Party has joined the proposals of the majority in the Grand Duchy in June and, among other things, the Labour Party. The centre party was on. I have to understand the contribution to Enoch there that he will also stretch very far towards participating in the financing of the structure that has been adopted, and I think for the sake of order that it might be okay if he would confirm it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e803	It can be confirmed. During the treatment of St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 in the Spring Stortingen, it was from the three centre parties, as was then agreed on all the comments and proposals in the Innst. S. 342 for 2000-2001, pointed out that we wanted to contribute to the widest possible settlement of the financing of the agreed structure. I guess we all know the background because it wasn't allowed to do in ours. But I hope, when we get to the next crossroads, that it will be possible to agree on funding that can ensure that the decisions that are taken can be implemented. When I used the term "sleep cutting", it is not that the proposition does not adequately satisfy the need for structural changes to be continued, but I used the term in relation to the fact that in the long term it will not be possible to implement the decision of the Storting without bringing funding into line with the decisions taken in the Stortinget. That's what I think there's actually quite a broad consensus about here, and in that way I used the term "sleep cutting." We can't continue with the double imbalance in the Defense also into the next long-term plan period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e810	I think it was an interesting post the representative of Enoch held, and I can agree with very much of what he says. He expressed a willingness to try to get to things that I look forward to when spring comes. There's a lot of talk here about reconciliation and consensus, and it's not least the Progress Party concerned. We're a little disappointed that we couldn't have already done that, because we know what the new structure will cost. I'm a little concerned about a certain tone and a certain undertone in the assembly here now that might suggest that things can happen here – talk about reductions and changes in addition to the decision that was made in June, and that one will thus facilitate the economy and structure. I hope that is not understood correctly, and I would like Enoxen to state that he does not believe that it should be. But when we talk about consensus and conciliation, it's also talk about what we're going to agree on. And it's clear that for the Progress Party, it's certainly not possible to agree if you don't add up to the economy that's calculated in relation to the decision that was made in ours. It's not, as Enoxsen said, but as he has so far corrected, something resting we take. It's full activity. And I hope that Enoch does not have thoughts that the structure and the economy can now be changed in relation to what was adopted on 13 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e817	I thought it was sufficiently precise – both in my main post and in the line exchange so far – that it was the opposite that was my starting point, namely that the decisions taken by the Stortinget should be taken as a basis for further work, and that the defence should be financed in line with the decisions taken by the Stortinget. The centre batch does not add up to reductions in addition to the decisions taken in June. But at the same time – when you also read what is between the lines in St.prp. No 1 and in St. Prp. No 1 Appendix No 4 – it is quite obvious that the Ministry has provided room to focus on different aspects of the Storting decision in ours. One can choose to focus on the structural decisions that were taken, or one can choose to focus on the objective of operating cost reduction of NOK 2 billion and a reduction of 5000 annual works. To the extent that there is no agreement between the two parts of the Stortinge decision, there is room for interpretation by the Ministry. I'm reading the proposition so that two governments now have arranged for a certain degree of rematch in relation to structure. I don't think it would be appropriate for the Defense to do so, and the Center Party will of course not contribute to such a rematch.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e824	The cord shift is over. Next speaker is the State Council Odd Einar Dørum, who has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. The President will draw attention to the fact that if there is a full reply to the statements of the Dørum Council, it will go far beyond the time set – and it will not happen. We will see how long a possible exchange of lines will take, but the President will prepare the representatives in the Chamber for the risk of having to interrupt in the middle of a line exchange. State Council Odd Einar Dørum – please!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e831	I perceive the President so that he encourages discipline. This is true in a debate on both defence and civil protection. I would like to stress that the Government's overall proposals, including those mentioned by the Defence Committee under the heading. 451 is considered to be an important strengthening of civil security and preparedness of society. The Sem Declaration states that society’s growing vulnerability to IT systems, energy and water supply, threats from organised crime, terrorism, etc. requires greater awareness and coordination. The overall defence concept is based on the principle that military defence and civil protection should support and complement each other in crises and disasters in peacetime and in war. However, I see a need to clarify the lines of responsibility of civil-military cooperation. As you know, the Ministry of Justice has a coordinating responsibility for civil protection today. I am referring to the fact that the Vulnerability Committee is proposing specific organisational changes. The Government will therefore seek to find effective ways of anchoring overall responsibility for civil security in the Ministry of Justice. I suggest that it will be explained what this implies in the Single European Act on social security and preparedness. The size of the population is explained by the fact that, in spring 2002, the Government will return to any proposals for funding related to measures that will contribute rapidly and effectively to reducing the vulnerability of society. It may include civil protection, police and police surveillance measures. In addition, the Government will provide an assessment of the overall need for civil protection resources, including the long-term needs of police and police surveillance services, in the context of the National Social Security and Preparedness Survey. The government has made significant efforts to monitor the vulnerability of society. In 2002, the main objective of the Government in the field of social security and preparedness will be to implement measures that effectively reduce the vulnerability of society. A strengthened focus, however, means that we have to make some choices. I think it is most important that we focus on the security and preparedness of the societal critical functions. I am thinking about the telecommunications sector, the power supply, the banking and financial industries, the emergency and rescue situations – to name a few. In this context, I would like to mention that the creation of a common and secure telecommunications solution for emergency situations – here we already have a pilot project based on the Tetra standard in place – is a very important response to effective crisis and disaster management. As you know, in 2002, the Ministry of Justice will present the key messages on social security and preparedness. My starting point for this message is to reduce vulnerability in society through optimal organisation and resource use. The message will include: address the future safety and preparedness arrangements in society, the dimension of work, where responsibility should be placed and what should be the guiding principles. Furthermore, an important part of the Communication will be to provide an updated picture of the future challenges we face. Among other things, we must: improve organisational cooperation between intelligence, surveillance and security services. The population must have confidence that governments take social security and preparedness seriously. This has become particularly important to be clear after 11 September. I am therefore concerned that the changes and measures proposed in the forthcoming long-term plan are the result of well-considered assessments that are suitable for maintaining this confidence. The government has proposed a strengthening of civil defence, and it will be dealt with here today. Through increased exercise and investment in materials and equipment, the level of civil protection preparedness and crisis management capability shall be significantly increased. Civil defence is an important support resource for major accidents and disasters. Finally, let me say that I have noticed the Committee's comments that, in the context of the Communication on Social Security and Vulnerability, we should also be concerned about the role of Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e852	There will be an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e855	I'll be straight up! «Vulnerability» and «safety» – why would one then put down the Forsculpture of Civilian Protectors at Hustad clay?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e862	Could it be possible to give an equally brief answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e865	– Because we want an effective use of money for all crews and the least possible civil guardians in line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e870	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The President will now cancel the meeting, and a new meeting will be held at 5 p.m. 3:30. The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 12:15. ----- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 3:30. President: Mr Eirin Faldet
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e886	The decision continues to deal with the matter. No 1 on agenda No 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e889	I also had the pleasure of ‘serving’ in the Defence Committee during the last great season. Throughout the last year of the period, we worked in the Committee on the Greatest Reorganization of Defence since the work on the defence system in the 1930s. Wednesday, June 13th, we will deal with the Innst. S. No 342 for 2000-2001 to the long-term proposition promoted by the government of Stoltenberg in February. Prior to the decision-making basis, there was enormous work in the Defence, Ministry and Stortinget. 13 June was to mark a time gap in defence policy. Not everyone was equally satisfied with the result, but we all thought that now was the uncertainty and instability above. The defence should have predictable and stable frameworks over time, so that there could be consistency between the resources, organisation and mission allocated. Over the summer, the Ministry calculated the costs of the adopted structure, and from a wide association of political parties it was given signals that the costs were to be paid. The Bondevik Government’s Sem Declaration even highlighted this as a separate point. The new Minister of Defence went out with high political command – fighter aircraft and transport aircraft were to be purchased outside the defence framework, 30 billion kroner were to be entered into the budget, etc. Today, after the political self-defense of the times in the legs of the Right Party, we know where we stand. The under-budget budget is DKK 2.7 billion compared to the structure adopted. We're starting the new planning period with an anomaly greater than the accumulated deficit over the entire current planning period combined. Even worse, when the Government will come back to Stortinget with another long-term proposition one year after the previous one. So we're going to have a system of annual long-term propositions. What is the point of predictability and stability? Right-wing former defence spokesman and my good committee colleague, Ingvald Godal, are asking in an observational post in the evening post last Friday for the defence staff to apologize for these strange circumstances. He says, «All of us who gave reason to believe that the Right was to trust in defence issues, now owe the voters and, in particular, the defence personnel an apology. Let it be presented for my part.' It's an untrue speech from an unreasoning politician and a former guard! I have to admit that I have also had the feeling that something is wrong when we have to deal with the long-term message in this way. Let me make a few comments on the chapter for which I am the case rapporteur for international operations. We all know how dynamic and uncertain the world situation is, as the debate last Wednesday showed. It goes without saying that in such an uncertain situation, where Norwegian forces may constantly be involved in international operations, budgetary flexibility must be present. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee has agreed that if it appears that the proposed amount under Chapter 1792 is too low, the Government will have to return to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with proposals for additional appropriations. Let me also say a few words about a relationship that embraces all defence politicians: the duty of protection. The principal basis for the duty of protection was again confirmed here in Stortinget on 13 June. There is therefore reason to be concerned again whether, in today's situation, the principle of universal protection is undermined when the convocation next year is set at around 14,000 ratings. This is worryingly low and below what the new structure will require in an average year. The same relationship is in principle valid for Home Affairs. Here it is only possible to train officers and specialists properly, while exercise activity is more than halved. This is very unfortunate, and I am therefore pleased with the unanimous comment under the HV-chapter that in practice binds the Government to come up next year with a scheme for the Home Protection that is in line with the assumptions of 13 June. However, such an extra round is unfortunate and should have been avoided.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e913	The 2002 Defence Budget is the first budget for the 2002–2005 conversion period. The government has no plans to make a new long-term proposition, but we have plans to make an implementation proposition, in line with what the previous government had planned. The terrorist attack on the United States of America on 11 September and the continuing military action in Afghanistan underline that the current conversion of defence is completely required and must continue with unrestricted strength. The budget line for Defence is, according to the decision of Stortingen on 28 November, NOK 27.6 billion. It is initially almost the same real level as the current year's budget. However, 700 million have been released. kr in relation to the current year’s budget for multi-national peace operations, and these funds are entirely redisposed to measures necessary for conversion. If we withdraw the funds allocated to multi-national peace operations, the 2002 defence budget has been increased by 2.5 pst. in relation to the level for 2001. However, it is essential that a separate proposal be presented to spring which will address the necessary changes in the defence structure and proposals for its financing. In addition, the proposal will address exceptional measures against terrorism. When we adopted the conversion proposal on 13 June, we did not have ‘11’. September” – that had not happened. Now we've got an even stronger challenge than what we had on June 13th, and it actually has to be baked into the whole we're going to implement in terms of defense over the next four years. In view of the limited time available to us, the government has not found it possible to propose such a whole already at the time of the presentation of the supplementary budget. In the work on the upcoming proposition, the Government will try to identify actions that will further contribute to rationalising and modernising the defence organisation and structure. The essential emphasis is placed on implementing the necessary changes in defence, and the government's clear objective is to finance the defence structure adopted by the Stortinge. The fight against terrorism has been dramatically renewed in this autumn. We need to demonstrate the ability and willingness to make an active contribution to this struggle, and in the context of the 2001 regrouping proposal, the Committee has already supported our proposal to allocate 56 million. kr for preparedness for terrorism. With regard to the possible Norwegian strength contribution to the fight in Afghanistan, I refer to my statement to the Stortinget on 5 December, and with regard to the financing of such contributions, the Government will address the matter with the Stortinget as soon as the budgetary needs are clarified. I note to my satisfaction that there is a broad consensus on the need to implement the agreed modernisation of the defence without delay, to finance the agreed structure and to increase the response to terrorism. I would also like to point out very clear feedback from our allies, which correctly favours Norway's work on the transition that is now taking place, but at the same time expresses concern that the shifts in the material project could have consequences for the modernisation of the structure. Furthermore, the modernisation of defence according to common objectives is a clear commitment Norway has made in NATO, a type of commitment that everyone, including the Progress Party, has talked about in terms of following it up in practice. I am therefore a little surprised when the Progress Party is now presenting a proposal for a budget in which material investment is proposed to be reduced by NOK 2 billion, which is redistributed to the operating chapters. It will just help to strengthen the double imbalance and, given the critical need to reduce the level of operations of the Defence for the purpose of building up a new structure, it could have directly disrupted the conversion if it had been adopted. I would also like to refute the claim made by the representatives of the Progress Party on the Defence Committee that it is a planned assumption that the 2002 defence budget will be based on the estimated average cost of the agreed structure, i.e. 30.4 billion 2001 kroner. It has always been stressed that appropriations for conversion in 2002 should and should be below the average and then increase beyond the period – this is because there are some practical limitations on how many new investments it is possible to complete the first year of a transition period. Finally, I would like to confirm the assumption of the Defence Committee that future activities on Rygge, Gardermoen and Kjeller and the other areas mentioned under 5.1 in St.prp. No 1, is presented to the Stortinget in the same spring proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e934	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e937	Let me first underline that the Government has the full support of the Workers' Party in the fulfilment of Article 5 of NATO and the fight against terrorism. Then I would like to stress that in the budget setting submitted it is such that the Labour Party and the government parties stand together chapter by chapter, post for post, crown for crown. And not just that: the same majority is behind every single word in the comments on security policy, economics and political signals ahead of the announced proposition for spring. We, as a party, are prepared to enter into a wide-ranging defence policy settlement. But I would like to highlight two issues that are important to us. One is that it should now be time that the Right ends with the mention of the Workers' Party's defence policy that has been Right Exercise until just a few weeks ago. And that's not a trifle, because at the Right National Meeting, it was expressed that the government of Stoltenberg put up to, not a conversion, but a rage, and that unfortunately the Workers' Party's attitude reminds us of the policies of the 1930s. This has been said both by the Chair of the Right National Assembly and put into notes from the same national meeting. I expect that we can stop using this kind of expression about each other's defence policy and rather go into more committed cooperation, just as we have done in Denmark. The second reservation I would like to make is that it is now important that reorganization should not be postponed for six months, that we should therefore not have a fight over structures or places that have been decided upon. And after the proposition has been adopted – hopefully by a broad majority – the defence and defence personnel have to have a predictable future, so that they know what will happen, and we don't get a new round of years later.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e946	My assessment of the relationship between the Right and the Workers' Party's defence policy is that there was some disagreement, especially when the proposition was presented. But through the processes of the previous Defence Committee, there was a great deal of consensus, not least because, contrary to what was proposed by the Proposition, the Labour Party, along with the Right, went in to increase the HV structure from 60,000 to 83 000, that the Labour Party in the Stortinget, unlike in the Proposition, was in favour of preserving the MTB weapon, and that the Labour Party in the Stortinget, as opposed to the Proposition, went in to invest in the new MTBs of the Skold class. This is a development with which the Right is well pleased. I would also like to point out that the former Council of State Godal pointed out on 13 June several times in important areas where the Right and Workers' Party were united. And he recorded with pleasure that he had received a majority, among others. along with the Right, for 90 pst. of the restructuring proposed. Regardless of what had been done at various national meetings, at least the outcome of the Grand Duchy's proceedings on 13 June showed that the power to agree on a great deal, and the examples I drew out, show that we got our defence policy on a good and correct track. I am very pleased that we here today have had many contributions from workers' party people who are inviting for a wide-ranging defence policy settlement. Not least in the current situation, an Article 5 situation in which we have reported a strong contribution to Afghanistan, and where there is crisis and unrest internationally, it should be particularly important to create wide-ranging settlements. At least I accept the invitation of the Workers' Party, and I hope, when we get to our proposition, that most of the parties in this Chamber will be able to end up about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e957	It is quite strange to observe the obvious proposal that is now being made between the Workers' Party and the Right in this Chamber. I don't think the defense earns anything special about it. What's being added up here is an obvious proposal to agree to subdue the defense once again. It's pretty interesting to read the little thing that's in the supplementary statement about the defense, and I want to refer a little bit of what it says there: ‘The Government will place the essential emphasis on the necessary conversion of Norwegian defence. To succeed in this very demanding task, the defence needs a stable and predictable framework. The Government will therefore ensure that the defence structure adopted by the Storting will be financed.The Ministry of Defence will, in this context, in the spring of 2002’ – a year after the adoption of the structure – ‘promote its own proposition which takes on board the necessary changes in the defence structure and proposals for funding it’. I have a feeling that here it's a scheme to change the structure, but I sincerely hope that's not the intention. If there's anything the defense needs now, there's peace and order in the sequences. Now it doesn't have to be more unpredictable. If it is the case that this is a scheme to change the appropriations and the structure, it must be to grant money in relation to a reduced structure. I would like a guarantee from the Council of State that that is not the case, that it is not working to reduce the structure and thus put the level at a lower level.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e971	I would first like to point out that my invitation to the Workers' Party to enter into a wide-ranging defence policy settlement was also, to a maximum extent, an invitation to the Advance Party and all the other parties in this Chamber who have an interest in strengthening the Defence. I think in the international situation we're in, we're served with the widest possible settlement, and we're also able to settle for a government change. Furthermore, I would like to try to answer the question about the structure arrangement for the spring proposition. My clear ambition is that of the Sem Declaration, namely to finance the adopted structure. But at one point there can be room for interpretation of what is really the adopted structure, because the Storting came up with some additions, while maintaining objectives both on downsizing and on operating savings. What is therefore an important exercise in the presentation of the Spring Proposition will be to refer to some alternative ways of fulfilling the Storting decision. The goal is that when the negotiations to be in spring are finished in Stortingen, we have funded the structure we have adopted, where we agree on interpretations of which structures we are actually continuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e978	The Minister of Defence was recently in Brussels, where she promised Norway, among others. would contribute 3 500 soldiers to the EU Force Register. SV has been critical of the Norwegian registration of this force register, mainly because we find it strange that Norway, which is not a member of the EU, should register the largest force in relation to the population of all the countries to be included. I think it is unfortunate if Norwegian forces are to participate in operations that we have not been able to participate fully in the planning of, and that are to be managed by an organisation we are not a member of. When Norway has reported so many soldiers and so much equipment, it is close to believing that one expects this to be a way of buying influence in the EU. I have noticed that in the last year's budget debate, the Minister of Defense, in his capacity as a major representative, criticized that the government was running checkbook diplomacy and tried to buy goodwill. What does the Minister for Defence think? Does she still believe that there is a checkbook diplomacy in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e992	I would first like to point out that in my mention of the diplomacy of cheques in the last year's budget debate, it was linked to a number of appropriations made by Norway to countries and regions with very little defence policy interest. On the other hand, when it comes to Norway’s contribution to the EU army, this government is on exactly the same platform as the previous government, namely that we see that the EU force can evolve into NATO’s European leg. If we are to enforce our interests in NATO, we can serve to participate in the cooperation that is taking place in Europe. I noticed that Kjetil Bjørklund in his speech earlier today was very concerned about the new challenges for Defence, about how we could intervene in crises related to human rights challenges, poverty challenges and new types of threats, whether it concerns attacks on oil installations or IT attacks. If there are some countries in Norway that have a natural prerequisite for finding solutions to these problems together, it is our European neighbours. I actually want to point out that the North here is about to go ahead with a good example. Sweden, Finland, Norway and Denmark have operated together under English leadership in Kosovo, and this has been very good. These four Nordic countries are now developing NORCAPS cooperation to guide both in the EU and in NATO. We go in to create a common unit of strength that can work, despite the fact that two of us have EU legs, and two of us have NATO legs. We are doing this just in order to be able to secure the world, precisely in order to address the new security threats, in which SV should be interested, and there is a development of the new and the old government standing together and having broad support for in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1002	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1005	On 13 June 2001 was a great and exciting day for the Defence and its further destiny. Then St. Prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 and the way in which Norway’s defence was to function in the years to come. The debates had then been many, and we politicians experienced what lobbying is. The progress party was then, as in the past, very concerned with these recordings and let them join in when we were going to make our decisions. The Progress Party looked at what defence Norway needed, and also what this would cost – a price tag equal to about 30 billion dollars a year for a four-year period. It amazes the Progress Party that it may seem that many have forgotten this amount, because having an effective defense also costs something. Then the other parties can't under-budget and believe that this is going well, or just refer to a proposition that is going to come to spring and contain enough money. This creates frustration among the defence military personnel, but also among the civilians. There is also frustration when we have military camps that we have decided to pass, but that may not seem to have enough work, such as Haslemoen in Våler in Solør. Since the equipment, building stock and personnel are in place, these must also be used in a reasonable way. Otherwise, I am satisfied that funds to the Eastern region, with its ring-effects, both positive and some negative, seem to have been preserved, even if something remains to be put in place, which can certainly create some skull in the future. It is also important in the phase of defence that the military installations from which the defence is moving are used for new and innovative projects, so that civil society and local communities are as smooth a transition as possible. The defence has meant a lot to many municipalities in many ways, and so the defense has a task here as well. But this I think will solve itself in a good way for the best of all. Everyone understands that the defence needs renewal and perhaps more efficiency, but in this zeal we have to tread carefully. Norway is a long-term and vulnerable country with, among other things, large natural resources, such as oil, our electricity generation and its lines. Norway is also a peacemaker in the world, which means that we must also use funds in our defence here. With regard to our national defence, we need to upgrade Home Security and provide equipment and financial framework so that our 83 000 Home Security soldiers can carry out their duties in a good way. Upgraded home security could be a major obstacle to a potential attacker. Home Security can defend, among other things: our airports, transportation lines, supplies, ports and much, much more. That is why the Advance Party is amazed that the other parties will not give enough money so that they can get proper practice. With the sum of home protection, only a minority of the soldiers will get such training they should have. Future-oriented planning will also be difficult to carry out. In connection with St. prp. No 45, for 2000–2001, Home Protection is assigned to tasks. In order to solve these problems, Home Affairs needs more funding. This is to ensure continuity and competence. Such a reduction in exercise activity could lead to a break in natural recruitment to the lower units, such as: at layer level, and it could be a load for many years to come. According to Homeland Security itself, they need 150 million. kr extra in relation to the budget to exercise at the current level and an increase in relation to the budget of 353 million. kr to practice all. The defence has been working for several years to remove the fundamental problem of imbalance between objectives and resources. This was the aim both of the 2000 Defence Study and of the long-term Proposition for Defence. If the agreed structure is not financed, the defense is well on its way back where they were before the work was started. Besides removing the imbalance, the aim of the transition has been to create a modern, mobile, flexible and strong defence. To achieve this, there is a need for funds and a predictable framework. This may seem like it is unfortunately the Progress Party that is willing to pay for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1020	Many speakers have today been up and talking about the long-term plan of the defence, about who has not followed up this and who has followed up this etc. What is interesting is that of course the following perspective: Of all that the Storting is doing, it is the defence that should be able to have a binding four-year plan to be subject to annual budgetary audit. One should be able to predict for four years because the defense is so infinitely important. That way of thinking, of course, appeals to me as well. I understand that the defense would like to see that this was the case. But think, ladies and gentlemen, why is this not so with regard to kindergartens, why is it not so with regard to municipalities, why is it not so with regard to the NSB, or why is it not so with regard to all the other important tasks that Stortinget decides at all times? The size has a number of times, for example. said the children's garden tariffs are going down. This shall be done over the year, and this shall be provided by the Storting. But nothing has happened. The point is that the defence is therefore the only area that Stortinget has ever wanted to have a long-term plan that requires that it be subject to annual budgetary procedures and thus ensures predictability. This is obviously so infinitely important for the defense, but not so important for the kindergartens, for the municipalities, or for what else we're dealing with from the Storting. For me, this is a cross of thought when reality is, and that is what this dispute between the various parties shows, that the defence has simply been defended as part of the annual budgetary procedure. That's important, and that's right. That means that the Storting should, of course, give priority to what the Storting believes is the most important thing. It may not be possible for any sector to be exempted from annual budgetary audit. In this case, SV would like many sectors in the Norwegian community to have a four-year commitment plan rather than the Defence. Once one has just come from the Nobel Peace Prize distribution, it may be natural to add some comments to it, including with regard to this debate. Kofi Annan and the UN are a very worthy recipient of the prize, and we in SV are unmistakably satisfied that this prize goes to the UN, not least for their important work for peace. And let me quote some of what Annan said in his speech in Oslo City Hall for a few hours back. He made it clear that the UN has three main objectives for the next century: ‘eliminating poverty, preventing conflicts and promoting democracy. Only when the world has rid itself of poverty can all men and women make full use of their abilities». This is the great threat to our planet, to our country, to our continent and to the people on this earth. That means that very much of what is being discussed in this room related to the defence budget, is not deeply related to what is the big threat to our world. That is the perspective that Kofi Annan here draws up: Only when we have eliminated poverty, only when we have managed to prevent conflicts, and only when we have managed to promote democracy, is there reason to see more optimism in the future. It is this perspective that SV has tried to bring into the defence debate, namely to look at what are the threats today, not what was the old threat picture that Norwegian defence policy has been led by over many, many decades. It is also what this long-term plan deals with, that is, the old defence, and not how to build a defense for what is the modern "threat picture". For Norway, SV has tried to draw up some of these perspectives. This means, for example, that we spend more money on unhelp and more money to invest in the poorest countries, simply because it is also a guarantee to us that ethnic unrest arises, that there are ethnic movements, and that there is misery. This, of course, is also important for the people concerned, infinitely important – it is promoting democracy, building democracy, and it is promoting civilisation. When SV says that environmental protection is an important part of the defence debate, it is simply because it is – because it is not the frigates in the Norwegian Sea that can eliminate shipwreck, eliminate the threat to an oil platform, prevent a supertanker from moving on the rocks, with large oil spills as a result. This is also part of what is – let's say – the modern threat picture, which we have to position in relation to. That means that we want to bet on Coast Guard, because it's Coast Guard that can monitor our sea areas more than frigates, make sure that the thieves are taken, and make sure that those who need to get into our waters and have nothing to do there can be driven out again. The gap between the rich and the poor, says Kofi Annan, is one of the most important challenges of the new century, and it is also part of this debate. Because it is obvious that eliminating it, or at least ensuring that the poorest are lifted, is the best way to eliminate conflicts. That means that this is part of the threat picture that SV sees for itself, and that we have tried to do something about through our budget. We're going to be very careful to take Kofi Annan to income for what we do, but nevertheless, SV and the UN have some common points about what is the threat of the future, and we want to meet this in a different way than more of the old.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1038	I'm glad of what the Minister of Defense says. She invites for a broad budgetary settlement, and this budgetary position provides for an attempt to achieve a large defence policy settlement in the United Kingdom. The Stoltenberg Government presented a budget which shows that they consider it important to continue the transition and to ensure a balance between the defence's tasks, structure and funding. And we're getting into the theme that Djupedal brought up in his post, and that's kind of weird with the whole SV, that they're not talking. Now I noticed that my colleague Halvorsen warmly welcomed the new representative of the Swedish Defence Agency – we are nice people in the defence committee, so we all want to be warmly welcomed – but I think he in his post should not say that we should negotiate with the Taliban for the release of Bin Laden. I think it had been in place in relation to the fact that SV was probably quite satisfied that they were so politely received. The majority of the Committee points out that the Government is making an implementation proposal in spring 2002, proposing measures to further contribute to the rationalisation and modernisation of the Defence Organisation. Now we should perhaps talk about Christmas, but indirectly I mean this is Christmas, because this is believing in Christmas. But I want to talk a little bit about the spring and this proposition coming to spring, because I know it's going to be the pure hallelujah mood around in the Norwegian country. The flags are going to go to the top in all defenses because then comes the implementation proposition, which is going to give both money, structure and everything. In his reply with Højres Hernæs he claimed that there was a disagreement between the committee leader Marit Nybakk and me when it came to the Workers' Party's view of the structure. We stand for what we are for, and we support that. We support the extension of Homeland Protection, we also support the MTBs, which were mentioned in the statements of the Minister of Defence, and that structure is to be part of and fund. But we do not support what Hernæs is trying to do with a Spanish one, and that is that we share everything. Because we're not, so there's no disagreement between Nybakk and me. So a little bit about the budget itself. As the case-rapporteur for chapters 1732 and 4732, the Maritime Defense Department, I am pleased that a large majority of you point out that the construction of a new structure should be a high priority. I refer to the frigate project going as planned, and that the first ship is scheduled to be delivered in 2005 and then one vessel every year. A separate Category 1 project will also be launched for the construction of the five remaining ones in the new Skjold class MTB. The Ministry of Defence laid down in St.prp. No 21 for 2001-2002 a proposal for amendments to the 2001 defence budget. I noticed that the defense had to pay VAT on the rental of a coastal vessel, 20 million. kr, and that this will amount to approx. Thirty-five million. kr for 2002. The Coast Guard organisation consists of two squadrons, one in the north and one in the south, and the structure in 2002 will be on 24 vessels, 11 seagoing, of which 8, later 7 will be hired. The Coast Guard is the state's primary authority officer outside our territorial waters in peacetime. It is a great and sustained pressure on the living resources of the sea. The presence and control activities at sea are therefore given high priority. I would like to ask the Council of State whether she can be helpful in obtaining a permanent exemption from VAT or compensation for the cost of VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1053	The Co-operation Board is currently presenting its budget for the Defence for 2002. This is the first budget after the Stortinget adopted a new structure in ours, and I am very pleased to note that the conversion of the Defence has started. It is the largest and most comprehensive process of conversion that Norwegian defence has ever been involved, and we must not forget that it is intended to establish a modern and effective defence adapted to today's security policy landscape, both at home and internationally. I record that the amount of NOK 27.6 billion does not cover what the Stortinge decided that the new structure should be. Let me say that what defence now needs is a stable and predictable framework in order to succeed in the demanding transformation that is now to be implemented. This means that the Storting must ensure that the structure they have adopted is financed. And I'm very pleased that the Co-operation Administration has announced that we will promote an additional proposition to spring, where we will ensure quality and fully finance the agreed structure. We all need to bear in mind that we must have a defence that actively pursues the overall objectives of Norwegian security policy. We must have a defence capable of preventing war and contributing to stability and peaceful development. We must have a defence capable of upholding Norwegian rights and interests, and last but not least, we must have a defence that respects Norwegian sovereignty. In St. prp. No 1 for 2001-2002 mentions three key aspects of Norwegian defence and security policy in the years to come. Its name is, among other things, the independence of the defence and the ability to deal with incidents and minor conflicts in Norway and Norway’s neighbourhoods. During major security crises, the defence must be able to operate with allied reinforcement forces. And last but not least: the defence should continue to be part of the collective defence of Norwegian territory and Norwegian interests. This means that defence should be a security policy tool to be used in peace, crisis and war, both nationally and internationally. Ever since Norway joined the UN Treaty, we have been obliged to participate in international operations. Norway is also a member of NATO, and NATO is an organisation based on common values – democracy, individual freedom and the rule of law. The attack on the World Trade Center was just an attack on these values. Then I think it's worth remembering that the sky has been declared discrete, for quite a short time after having to give up for the hurricane. That's why we have to remember that a defense is looking at as an insurance premium, and it's important that we have the best possible insurance. In the case of a small country like ours, we've learned that we're too small to be in charge of this insurance all alone. Therefore, it is important to seek fellowship, and therefore, NATO cooperation is as relevant now as it has always been. For Norway, there is also a special challenge here. Every year during the Cold War, it was safe to know that we could get ally's help. Now is the time for us to contribute. How else can we expect others to assist us in the future? Finally, I would like to say that there must never be any doubt that the primary task of the defence is the defence of Norway. Our defence must be designed with this in mind, and our contribution to international operations should primarily consist of elements where we are competent on the basis of the above priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1074	First of all, I would like to mention a few things that the Defence Committee and the Business Committee have in common. One case is the dry dock project in Harstad, which is mentioned in the budget positions of both committees. This is a matter with which we from the Workers' Party worked a part in the previous period, and there have been studies of possibilities to contribute to the construction of the dock. I am very pleased that the case has now come to such an extent that the Stortinget can see that the project has started and that it can be submitted to the Stortinget for consideration in the context of the revised national budget in the spring of 2002. Norway is facing the purchase of large orders with military material in the future. New fighter planes are a string. For the treatment of St.prp. No 45 for 2000–2001 raised the issue of repurchase arrangements. It reflected a disagreement within the former Defence Committee on the use of the repurchase arrangements. I hope, for the sake of Norwegian business, that the Minister of Defense will take time and carry out a proper analysis – preferably in cooperation with Norwegian business – before deciding on how to negotiate these contracts, and this with repurchase. The Workers' Party received many reactions from industry, especially from the defence industry in connection with the Right's comments on this at the time of the suspension, and we have also now received reactions in the course of the budgetary procedure through hearings that we need to take care of the repurchase arrangements, especially in relation to Defence. So I hope that the Bondevik II government will not help kicking legs under the Norwegian defence industry by forgetting the repurchase arrangements in the matters they will continue to work with and in the case of large orders abroad. So it's a little weird for me, who was a member of the defense committee for the entire previous period, to read St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 4th@item: inlistbox I have to admit that I spent the weekend blaring through the debate that we had in Stortinget on 13 June. I have also listened to the debate here today. After reading the debate and listening to the debate here today, I am glad that it now seems that we are going to work towards a common settlement, so that when we get back to this in the spring, we get a sensible result. But it's a little strange that we now, for the first time in many, many years, see that the Right Party and the Labour Party have a common attitude to the defence budget, after all – I don't know if I'm going to call it – shut up that we've gotten up over the years from the right. In the debate on 13 June, both the current Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik and the current Minister for Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen took part, and it was not much joy that we heard from the Workers' Party from the two in connection with the Workers' Party's defence policy. I do not want to shed salt in the wounds – someone has already done so in this debate – but I would like to quote a bit of the article to Jan Petersen from the debate on 13 June. He said the following: «But there is a demanding treatment we are through, because the question being asked is how much money are we willing to spend on an insurance premium at a time when the enemy in question did not have to stand around the door. Then it is tempting to postpone and postpone, and that is the story of the 1990s and one of the important reasons for the imbalance in defence.’ I note that the Right is now responsible for a new postponement. They're saying it's only going to last six months, and they're going to make a new proposition and more money in the spring. Then we'll see if it's the tax and tax reliefs or the defense that wins. After treatment of St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 there was a debate on how much it would cost, and there was an exchange of letters between the Defence Committee and the Ministry of the Council of State. There were also varying numbers out there and went the time we dealt with the proposition in Stortinget. We asked the department to figure it out. A thorough job was done by the department, and we got an answer to the questioner. Then it is a little strange when the representative Hernæs gave a kick to what he called the “former regime” that the time was spent on the calculation and quality assurance, and the price was 30.4 billion kroner per year. years. At the same time, he said that it is a quality stamp of the Bondevik II government that they need six months to ensure the quality of the Storting's decision of 13 June. Much depends on the eyes that see.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1097	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1100	I would first like to thank Grethe Fossli for the excellent quotation from Jan Petersen. As usual, the Minister of Foreign Affairs was quite precise in his statement and in his form. Otherwise, I just think I have to note that members of the former Defence Committee, whether or not they are in this house in a new state of collapse, seem to be a little hurt and dismayed at the debate on 13 June. I would like to stress once again from the Right: there is no rematch. It is such that the reorganization of the defence, as decided by the Storting, is going on for the full and with full enthusiasm absolutely all the time. And I'm pretty familiar with the fact that there are people in the Storing who are mistrustful of what we say from the Storing Chair, who obviously mistrust what is stated in the Sem Declaration, and who then operate a tactics that are based on – or at least have as a consequence – spreading dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction among the defence agencies that are going to make these transitions that are the prerequisite for us to get the new defense. I stress once again, and I have said this before, that the reorganisation is going on too fully, and that what defence needs in the phase we are now in, is encouragement and assurance that the Storting will of course follow the decisions that the Storting has made. But it was really Gunnar Halvorsen's post that made me ask for the word for a three-minute post. In the past we have said that there have been two extremes in this Chamber, SV and the Progress Party. I have to take that back. There are two extremes: SV and the Progress Party plus Gunnar Halvorsen. For he had a post that I cannot understand except was quite filled with resentment over the fact that the Workers' Party more or less voluntarily was forced to join the Stortinget in June. It is such that the characteristics that were used referred to the Labour Party's positions before we got a majority that left the structure we have today. It is clear that if the Labour Party wants to have a rematch, whether it is about its defence policy in the 30s, or about its defence policy in January, February, March, April, May and June of the current year, they will have to have it, but then it will have to be at a different time. Now I accept the challenge that comes from the chairman of the committee, which has a completely different form, and a completely different content, than that of individual representatives. I'll accept that cooperation, and then we'll see if we're not going to get this in place in a good way. But it's not a rematch, it's the same structure we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1114	After the representative Hernæs" posts, I expect that the defence policy agreement is almost in the box, and then we'll see when we get to spring. But that's not why I asked for the floor. With all due respect for the representative Djupedal – in this case he must either have deliberately or unconsciously misunderstood what we are talking about when we say we are concerned about predictability. In any case, his descriptions are very imprecise. Of course, the defence shall not be exempted from annual budgetary procedure. However, predictability is about the biggest conversion process in the Norwegian defence in recent times, at least after 1945. And then there is a need to have calmness and predictability to get a transition to a modern, robust defense that can also deal with the new threat picture, the new enemies, as Djupedal so well describes in his post: the threats to the open, democratic, technological and globalised society. It is such that rolling tanks going east are of little help if the threat is a pipette of poison dripping in the Maridal waters, to put it a little on the head, or as we saw in the United States, that large civil passenger planes loaded with petrol are being used as bombers and are able to kill tens of thousands of people if the occasion permits. So part of the reorganization of the defense and treatment of the Vulnerability Committee will also have to be about this. It is also true that cleaning up after nuclear waste in Kola, removing poverty in post-Soviet areas and creating development, well-being, democracy and conflict resolution in, among others. Africa is an important part of a global security policy. And then to the UN and Kofi Annan, whom we have all hailed from this pulpit today, and which we have heard in the City Hall. I also heard Annan's shimmering and gripping speech. What was he starting with? He started with the girls who were born in Afghanistan. Now Djupedal is not in the Chamber, but I would like to challenge SV and the representative Djupedal on how SV has dealt with the struggle against bin Laden and the Taliban terror regime that we have conducted internationally in the autumn, a terror regime in which bin Laden’s people have actually been in government – to the extent that one can talk about government – and where the press week by week, day by day, has rolled up the grotesque treatment that, among other things, has. girls and women have been exposed in Afghanistan under this regime. My question is: When did SV go in demonstration trains for human rights for women under the Taliban regime in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1125	The representative heresy adjudicates to me the views I don't have. I am very much in favour of a defence policy settlement. I may seem deeply hurt and hopeless, but it's clear that once you've worked on such a case, as we did in the previous defense committee and thought we had a deal, and then you realize that there won't be any of it when it comes to putting it into practice, then you might have to be a little disappointed. I actually asked for the floor to ask two questions to the Minister of Defence. We are already receiving enquiries from people who lost the fight last and who now want to have a rematch. Can I get a confirmation that the already adopted relocations, collections and closures are at stake, and that there will be no rematching about it, but that there may be new closures and sales, and that it is the debate that will come to spring? This is to avoid giving false hopes to some who are at the doors of us sitting on the defense committee. I would like the Minister of Defence to comment on this. The second was the question raised by the chairperson of the Defence Committee in its main statement on point IX(3), where the Defence Committee increases the investment authorisation framework of approximately Twenty-five million. NOK in the current year until we now give a power of attorney of up to 100 million. kr. It has been unanimously accepted by the Committee, because we realise that there are major changes that are now on the steps and that the Minister of Defence needs that authority to do the job that needs to be done. My question is: will the Minister of Defence confirm that this mandate should not be used on projects that are not known to the Storting, so that we may be surprised, and that is only referred to the mandate, and then there are projects that the Storting might not want?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1137	To the first question of rematch where the closure has already been decided, I can confirm that the representative Halvorsen and I share the same view on it. What is the challenge for the Great Britain and the Government in common is to find room not only for the structure adopted but also for the necessary measures in the fight against terrorism. And that means that we probably – if we have to go some way – have to be even tougher on the structure, and that means that prioritizing investments at the pointed end is still the most important priority, rather than maintaining buildings and facilities that we can manage without. So taking rematches on things that have been decided upon is not the proper use of forces in the current situation. To the second question, what went on the authorization for construction projects with a cost framework of less than 100 million. kr: the whole main purpose of the authorization is to have the appropriate pace of conversion adopted. The conversion requires the refurbishment of the camps to continue to be used for the activities transferred from the camps that have been decided upon, and that means that, in some cases, older building masses need to be rebuilt, and that means that new buildings must be constructed and refurbished in a range of 300000 to 400000 m2. That's big numbers. In order to avoid the need for each project to enter the Storting, it is my opinion that this authorisation is necessary. Otherwise, I just want to say that if it were to be about other investment projects, which are completely unknown to the Storting, there are fortunately a number of occasions in the communication between government and big business where you can inform about such things. And I think that the close and good dialogue that has already developed between the Ministry of Defence and the Committee gives us an opportunity to find satisfactory solutions to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1146	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 828]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1162	First, I want to fix a couple of print errors in the configuration. In cap. 1725 item 1 should be from NOK 1637 218 000 to NOK 1548 272 000 – there are large numbers here! In cap. 1731 item 1 is from NOK 4 528 940000 to NOK 4 529 734 000. It is also the case that the funds for anti-terrorism measures amount to 100 million. kr and not 96 mill. kr, as stated in the setting. Otherwise, it's St.prp. No The 21-year redispatch proposal, which the Stortinget would like to receive when the budget year is nearing its end. Some changes in the 2001 defence budget appropriations are presented here in order to bring the appropriations under each chapter and item in line with the changes in budgetary assumptions that have taken place since the 2001 defence budget was drawn up. But in addition, this time we have received additional appropriations for the necessary measures in the Defence against Terrorism after 11 September. As I said, this is a total of 100 million. kr to various emergency measures – watchkeeping of F-16 aeroplanes, purchase of equipment and filling up warehouses for aircraft operations, etc. I also want to refer to Innst. S. No 9, which we treated earlier in the autumn, where the Storting joined a series of appropriations for various civil and military preparedness measures against terrorism. Then I will take up a very special matter that lies in this setting. It concerns VAT on the rental of civil coastguard vessels. When this proposition arrived, the committee registered that this is 20 million. kr for the six months we are in, and that it is a matter that we had not seen anything else in the budget proposal for the next financial year. However, it is still a matter which has consequences even in the coming financial year. Let me stress that the Coast Guard is the state's primary authority officer outside the territorial waters of peacetime, and that seven of the ships are hired by civil shipowners. This means, after the VAT reform, that some sums of VAT have to be paid. Unfortunately, compensation for VAT costs incurred by the departments in purchasing services was not included in the base when renting a coastguard vessel. For 2002, we have been informed that this amounts to 35 million. kr, which has not yet been covered and which is likely to have to be covered within the framework of the next year's budget. It has also been stated by the Council of State in a letter to the Committee. On behalf of the Committee, I would like to ask the Ministry to help resolve this matter on a permanent basis. These are expenditures that are very high, and the rental of civil coastguard vessels is a necessity for the exercise of the watchkeeping that we do. Furthermore, the regrouping proposal as it stands now has a form which makes the production of economic movements appropriate and transparent.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1188	It is quite interesting to sit here now and observe that both Leif Lund and now Marit Nybakk are appealing that no VAT should be levied on the rental of civil coastguard vessels. I would then only urge the Labour Party Group to vote in favour of our proposal, No. 2, which I have promoted earlier here today under case No. 1, which reads: ‘VAT is not levied on the rental of vessels for the Coast Guard.’ That matter should then be reasonably clear. I would also ask the others, not just the Labour Party, to vote in favour of the proposal, and we have that issue out of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1200	I just want to comment briefly on one of the redeployment proposals that the Government has put forward in this proposition. It's the proposal to redispatch 210 million. kr from cap. 1792 ‘Norwegian forces abroad’. SV disagrees with that 72 million. NOK of this amount shall be redispatched to cap. 1760 Refurbishment of tangible goods and new constructions. We believe that the Government should put forward a proposal more in line with the Storting's intention of this allocation, that is to put aside funds to contribute to peacekeeping internationally. In the absence of such a proposal, we believe it would be right for all the 210 million that will not be applied to the chapter ‘Norwegian forces abroad’ to fall to the Treasury, not only 138 million. kr, as proposed by the Government. SV will therefore vote against the option under cap. 1760 and cap. 1792.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1205	I refer to the contribution made by the Committee's chairman on the value added tax burden for the Coast Guard when it hires civil vessels. As far as we understand, it means a negative effect on the Coast Guard, actually down 35 million. kr next year – a dramatic cut in the Coast Guard business. I think it would make sense if the Council of State could now inform the Storting about what the Government intends to do with this. It is now established that the Advance Party will have removed this VAT. We have a proposal on this in the previous case. It is also a clear signal, provisionally on the verbal level, from the Workers' Party, and I hope that voting will be in accordance with what they claim in the Chamber. But the most interesting thing is maybe, what is the Government's position? Is it the Government's intention that the real budget for the Coast Guard be reduced by 35 million? kr, or is this what you can call an incurrency in the best and kindest way? Has not such a downgrading of the Coast Guard budget been planned either from the previous government or the current one? If the latter is the case, can we expect the Government to do what is necessary, legally and otherwise, so that the Coast Guard's VAT is removed? It would have made sense, I think, if the Minister of Defense could have given a relatively clear answer for the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1210	Just a brief comment on the Progress Party and on the proposal in the budget position. The Committee has had a correspondence with the Council of State on this matter. The Committee has received a letter of reply stating that she has raised this matter with the Ministry of Finance and that there are negotiations with the Ministry of Finance. It is also the case that there have been consultations within the Committee where this has been confirmed. What was my intention was to get the floor of the Parliament to stress that we are seriously looking at this matter, and that we want to get it resolved somehow on a permanent basis. This means that it is either necessary to seek the removal of VAT on imported coastguard vessels, i.e. to obtain a permanent derogation, or to budget VAT on these vessels. My reason for addressing this matter here is that this is a matter that the committee wants to resolve.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1217	I will briefly be allowed to recall what is in the answer from the Ministry of Defence to the Committee. It says that the value added tax on the rental of a coastguard vessel is estimated to be approximately. Thirty-five million. kr. The amount is approximately because the contracts are currently negotiated with the shipowners. The amount was assumed to be covered by redispatch within the defence framework. The background to this story is that when the Storting treated compensation for VAT expenditure on the purchase of services by the departments as part of the revised national budget process, the VAT obligation on the rental of coastguard vessels was not included in the base. When the question arose later, the Tax Directorate was contacted to assess whether VAT would be paid. The assessment resulted in a clear yes, according to the Tax DG’s current legal basis. The answer from the Tax Directorate did not come in time for the previous government to incorporate the case, mention it and dispose of the funds within St. prp. No 1 was submitted. Now I understand that there is a desire from representatives here in the Chamber to take an initiative towards the Ministry of Finance and ask them to reconsider this matter. It is classified under the heading of another State Council, but there are practical arrangements to deal with this. An opportunity will be a written question from one of the representatives who can be quickly forwarded to the responsible State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1224	I think I'll ask the Minister for Defence one more time. I did not get an answer. It is clear that there is internal communication in the Government between governments. I'm sure that's interesting. What's interesting about the Storting is what's the government's view. The technique is not the most interesting either. The Council of State now stated that it would appear that it would be financed by «transposals within the framework». So that really means a further 35 million dollars reduction in the defence budget. kr. So I could imagine asking the Minister of Defense if she could clarify the Government's position. One way to do it is to give 35 million extras. kr to the Coast Guard and the obligation to pay VAT is maintained. Then you will be kept harmless by getting the money you have to pay to the Treasury in the form of value added tax. The other way is to get a permanent exception for the Coast Guard. And the third way, which is at the moment the Government's and also the Workers' Party's method, because none of them have done anything, is to accept that you have to pay VAT without giving compensation to the Coast Guard. That is what will be the end result today, unless you vote in favour of our proposal. It must therefore be the actual wish of both the government parties and the Labour Party, according to how they deal with the matter here. I would like to ask if the Council of State can tell you what is the Government's position in this area. I guess they're not the ones who are involved in the Ministry of Finance's technique. They're supposed to be responsible for this kind of question. It is the actual national assembly that should do. And it is not the case that the National Assembly is subordinate to any technical person in the Ministry of Finance as to whether the Coast Guard should be compensated for this or not. It is this assembly that has to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1233	This government has taken the same view as the previous government, namely that the amount is assumed to be covered by redispatch within the defence framework. This was the case when the landfill proposal was presented. When this government did not present any other view of the additional proposition, this is still the view of this government. If you want a different answer from what I'm giving now, you have to take a new initiative. But this government has therefore laid the same foundation as the previous one, namely redispatch within the defence framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1238	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 840]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1246	We're going to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1253	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Per Ove Width, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4, from Odd Roger Enoksen on behalf of the Center Party Mrs Nybakk has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1265	Just a brief explanation of vote on the basis of the debate we just had. It concerns proposal No. 2, from the Advance Party, on VAT for the rental of vessels to the Coast Guard. I would recommend that the Members of the Labour Party vote against the proposal, but assume that the Council of State is working further on the matter, in line with the Committee's remarks in the budget position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1270	With the explanation from the committee leader, we end up all the way to this from the right. That is why we would recommend the Right Members to vote in favour of the vote and against all minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e1275	First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e2593	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1, 2 and 3, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e5243	SV has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e5255	The centre party was also to vote against. It is possible that not everyone was aware of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e5262	The President is told that the Progress Party should also vote against. Then we take the vote again, so that everyone gets the vote as they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e5597	The President would point out that it's under attack. Item 1 of 1725 shall be corrected. It shall read ‘from NOK 1637 218 000 to NOK 1548 272 000’. Furthermore, the Chairman of the Committee has taken note of another amendment. Under the hood. 1731 item 1 shall read ‘from NOK 4528 940000 to NOK 4529 734000’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e5735	SV has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-10.ana.ud1433e5855	SV has announced that they want to vote against it.
