ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-08.ana.ud2577e29	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Ola T. Heggem For Troms County: Leif Christian Johansen The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-08.ana.ud2577e42	I will be presented with a private proposal that the municipalities and county councils be provided with additional funds for 2001 as a result of increased pension costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-08.ana.ud2577e47	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-08.ana.ud2577e58	The terrorist attacks against the United States on 11 September were a declaration of war. It was a declaration of war against the international order of law, against international cohabitation, against free and open societies, against tolerance, even against the human world itself. We therefore strongly condemn these abominable acts and the terrorists behind them. The objective of the fight against international terrorism is clear: we must prevent new terrorist attacks, and those responsible for the attacks on 11 September and their supporters must be tracked and held accountable. A whole world is behind this requirement. The fight against terrorism is conducted by political, diplomatic, legal and financial instruments. Unfortunately, it is also necessary to use military instruments, because the Taliban regime has not wanted to cooperate with the international community to place those responsible for the attacks on 11 September in charge, but instead acts as their supporters. Military actions always mean ethical dilemmas, and I understand people's concerns in that regard. We are not faced with the choice between a good and a bad option. But I believe that not using military instruments to prevent new terrorist attacks is the worst. The consequences are insurmountable and can be cruel. The situation in Afghanistan also calls for a large-scale humanitarian aid. The need for emergency aid was great before the war on terrorism began, but the aid was relatively small. Paradoxically, this situation has now changed – in recent weeks central donor countries have doubled and tripled humanitarian aid. The international response after 11 September has been unambiguous, clear and coherent. There is very broad support for the right of the United States to self-defense. EU countries have given their full support to the United States. Russia, China, Japan, the Pacific countries and a wide range of countries and organisations have condemned the estimates and given their support to the United States. We should note in particular that the Organization of Islamic Countries has condemned the terrorist attacks and that the Arab countries contribute in various ways to the international coalition. The day after the terrorist attacks, the United Nations Security Council unanimously adopted Resolution 1368. The resolution is historic. It notes that the terrorist attacks pose a threat to international peace and security and reaffirms the United States’ right to individual or collective self-defence, in line with Article 51 of the UN Charter. So the US military action is fully in line with the UN Charter and the Security Council's decision. The Security Council condemned the acts of terrorism and instructed all States to cooperate to bring the responsible and their supporters into line. Furthermore, the Security Council of Resolution 1373 of 28 September adopted a number of measures to prevent the financing of terrorism. This resolution is also binding on all Member States of the United Nations. By way of a provisional arrangement of 5 October, the Security Council Resolution has been implemented in Norwegian legislation. The Government intends to submit a legislative proposal for redemption to the Provisional Facility. NATO immediately condemned the terrorist attacks and issued a clear statement of support to the United States. The Permanent Council of NATO confirmed that the attacks are to be regarded as an attack on all the countries of the alliance. Article 5 of the Atlantic Charter thus obliges all members of the Alliance to contribute to the necessary countermeasures. For the first time in the history of the alliance, the collective defence obligation has entered into force. This underlines the solidarity between the Allies. It testifies that the Article 5 guarantee, which has been the backbone of our own security and defence policy for over 50 years, is real. It enters into force when the situation so requires. It goes without saying that this decision is of great importance to our own country. There is a broad consensus on Norway's position. Cross-political agreement provides the Government with the strength of a demanding international situation. The government will do its part to maintain this broad consensus. This is also important in the light of our alliance. Shortly after the terrorist attacks, our country was fully committed to solidarity with the United States. Thousands of Northmen gave personal expression to their compassion and pain. At the same time, we offered assistance to the United States for the relief work. The offer included site reviewers, disaster and crisis psychiatric teams and search and search dogs for immediate deployment. Norway is ready to provide concrete support to the United States, including military contributions. We are also prepared to participate in NATO operations if the United States were to request allied support. Norway has already made military resources available. We are part of an intensified intelligence cooperation with the United States and within NATO. Norwegian crews are part of NATO's airborne surveillance, which has been transferred to the United States. In addition, a Norwegian frigate participates in the standing Atlantic force of NATO, which will subsequently strengthen its presence in the Mediterranean. A Norwegian submarine could join the standing force of NATO in the Mediterranean. The government received a request from the US authorities last week to initiate military-level discussions on a possible additional Norwegian military contribution. A similar request has gone to other allies of the United States. Several allies have announced military contributions in the last few days. The government has responded positively and promptly to this request. This was announced to the US authorities on Monday in connection with the Foreign Minister's talks in Washington. The government is prepared to meet US requests. The government aims to establish as soon as possible a permanent military representation at the U.S. headquarters in Florida. Discussions on any Norwegian contribution will continue, but so far these do not suggest any qualitative new compared to what we have so far contributed. Terrorist networks will only be broken down by a long-term and holistic approach, in broadest possible alliance and with a broad range of actions, both political, legal, financial, military and others. Military action is part of an overall strategy, and they are unfortunately necessary. The military operations trigger equally full debate. The question is whether the right choices have been made and whether the strategy is coming forward. I get it. That's a difficult situation. Moreover, there will always be deep ethical dilemmas associated with the use of military power. The use of military resources only makes sense to me when they are needed to limit the consequences of evil – in this case of terrorism. We must not forget that the international community is facing a ruthless opponent, who has carefully and nine-yearly planned terrorist attacks to kill as many as a thousand civilians as possible. It's an opponent who's willing to re-exercise the most cruel truths, and who has resources and will for it. We must not forget September 11th! Despite repeated calls, the Taliban regime in Afghanistan has refused to comply with binding decisions of the UN Security Council to deliver Osama bin Laden and other named persons in the al-Qaeda terrorist network. The Taliban regime remained unwilling to comply with the United Nations and US requests and requirements in the weeks following 11 September and provided conflicting information on the location of Osama bin Laden’s detention. The totally reprehensible attitude of the Taliban regime towards cooperating and complying with binding decisions taken by the UN Security Council has forced the international community to take action — including military ones. The air attacks taking place are aimed at military objectives and installations directly linked to the terrorist network. As we now know, significant parts of the Taliban regime's military infrastructure and major terrorist camps are harmless. Civil life has been lost. One lost human life is one too much. Every human being is inalienable. We have to do what we can to avoid the innocent being hit. I am sure that the countries participating in the operation will. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, in his conversation with Minister of Foreign Affairs Powell in Washington earlier this week, received clear assurances that the United States is doing its utmost to avoid civilian losses. As is known, the number of civilian casualties resulting from the bombing of targets in Afghanistan is not high. The damage to non-military targets is not great. There is also reason to ask very serious questions about the credibility of Taliban reports on the loss of civil life. The regime has systematically distorted the truth both to its own people and to the international community, and is anything but open. The attack on September 11 hit the United States. But the threat is addressed to the world community, and the effects affect everyone. This also applies to the world economy, where the consequences are reflected in prosperous and poor countries. This is the way in a world of ever-increasing interdependence. In the period after 11 September, we have seen a strengthened recognition worldwide that global threats need to be addressed globally, in broad cooperation between all nations. This concerns the threat of terrorism, as is the case with other challenges of globalisation. The United States has gone to the head to build a uniquely wide coalition. We have seen September 11 strengthen the will for international cooperation. It is important and in line with a key line in our own foreign policy. If we are to win the fight against international terrorism – and we must – we must do everything possible to keep together and deepen the wide international coalition that is established. Osama bin Laden encourages war between religions and between the peoples of the world. It's a gloomy call – that can't have any appeals. It is a message from a sect that will remain isolated because it prompts terror and destruction. A further confirmation of this is the verbal frontal attack bin Laden has now targeted the year's Peace Prize winners, the UN and UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan. The debate after 11 September referred to poverty and injustice as a cause of international terrorism. It is important to be precise in relation to the relationship between poverty and terrorism. Poverty and injustice are the most important challenge facing the world society. It was a clear message from the UN Millennium Assembly, and it is a clue to long-standing and great Norwegian efforts for aid and development. This government has announced the escalation of assistance. Hopeless and degrading living conditions are the face of poverty. It can give ground to desperation and violence, and to terror. But the acts of terror we saw on September 11th are different. They had their origins in deep intolerance and extremism and were funded by a resource-intensive international network. Terrorism is not the voice of the poor. The fight against international terrorism is not in any way directed at Islam. It is aimed at a small group that, based on extremism and intolerance, abuses this world religion for its purposes. Dialogue with Islamic religious communities and environments is important to counteract any false impression that it is a conflict with Islam. So I am glad that I am invited to a meeting with the Assembly of the World Islamic Mission mosque in Åkebergvejen, Oslo, tomorrow. I want to take advantage of the opportunity it gives to strengthen tolerance and mutual understanding in the Muslim religious community also in our country. The terrorist attacks also confirm that we are facing a new and complex threat picture. We have had – and will have – a debate on how best to address this threat. The debate activates people from university and research environments, the media, non-governmental organisations, church communities and political parties. It's positive. The government wants a dialogue with different environments on these issues. Many here at home are naturally concerned that the Afghan people must pay the price for the bin Laden and his terrorist network al-Qaeda. Therefore, many want a temporary stop in the bombing operations now in the fixed month ramadan. The United Nations and relief organisations state that the military action has only to a very limited extent made humanitarian aid work difficult. The UN Emergency Assistance Coordinator points out that small-scale cooperation by the Taliban, the looting of UN agencies and the Taliban’s unwillingness to secure access to humanitarian supplies are the main obstacles to humanitarian aid. Despite these difficulties, the UN Emergency Response Coordinator says that there has been a significant increase in humanitarian supplies to Afghanistan. Now you're up in deliveries of 1,500 tons per. the day of a daily need of about 1700 tonnes. There is no indication that a bomb break will have a significant impact on humanitarian supplies. But it could help to bin Laden and the Taliban consolidate their positions. This, in turn, could lead to a prolonged military operation. The use of class bombs occupies a lot. It's also understandable. This is also the government busy. Some types of class bombs represent a humanitarian problem due to unexposed explosives. This is a broad consensus among most Western countries. However, according to our information, the use of class bombs in Afghanistan has been limited and targeted at clearly identified military targets. This type of weapon is not prohibited under international law. However, Norway is working with other countries to establish restrictions on the use of certain types of class bombs, in particular in terms of self-destruction and clean-up obligations. We will actively follow up on these issues in the ongoing disarmament negotiations in Geneva. The aim of our work is that it can in turn provide the basis for a ban on certain types of class bombs. Long before the air strikes against targets in Afghanistan began last month, there were over 4 million Afghan refugees. A total of 5 million Afghans depended on emergency aid from the United Nations and other international organisations. This is due, as we know, to many years of war, natural disasters and mismanagement. Before 11 September, the international community presented only a small part of the humanitarian aid needed. Today, paradoxically, this situation is radically changed. Over the last few weeks, central donor countries have doubled or tripled humanitarian aid to Afghanistan. After 11 September, more than DKK 5.4 billion has been committed in humanitarian aid to Afghanistan. Norway is one of the major contributors. The humanitarian aid provided by Norway has risen significantly in recent weeks and a total of 305 million. kr is this year earmarked for Afghanistan. Assistance is distributed through the UN, the Red Cross and other Norwegian non-governmental organisations. The government will ensure that Norway continues to play a central role in the humanitarian field, and that we do what we can to save lives and relieve distress. Since they seized power in Afghanistan, the Taliban has disregarded the basic needs of the population and fundamental human rights. Women are subjected to assault. Infidelity is punishable by death. Girls are banned from the eight-year-old schools. Any torture and executions are common. People are killed and killed as a direct consequence of the regime's policies. This is one of the most oppressive regimes in recent times. The Taliban will not change its policy in these areas by bombing. On the contrary, all experience suggests that the abuses will continue, and that it will not be easier to distribute food and other emergency aid to the population. The Taliban regime is isolated and not internationally recognised. It is not supported by any other country or international organisations. It has no seat in the United Nations. The regime has come to power through violence, and is not representative of its people. Therefore, there is broad international agreement that the Taliban regime should be removed. A broad body of government must create stability and economic development in the country. The Afghan people themselves must take responsibility for this. In a transitional phase, however, the UN will have to play a central role. Norway is also ready to support this work. The Secretary-General’s Special Representative, Lakhdar Brahimi, is now preparing the basis for a representative and multi-ethnic board in Afghanistan. The international community must contribute to the long-term reconstruction of the country with the establishment of a new and broad body of government in Afghanistan. It will also need to include the return and reintegration of millions of Afghan refugees. Norway will contribute to such a development, through our membership of the Security Council and our Presidency next year in the international donor country group for Afghanistan. The horrific events in New York show how vulnerable our societies are. We can never protect ourselves against any kind of terrorism. But the international community must do what is possible to prevent terrorist networks from operating internationally. Social security and preparedness are a priority task for the Government. We will soon present a big message about this. I would like to stress that the terrorist threat in Norway is low. We have no indication that concrete terrorist attacks against Norway are planned. We judge the risk of using biological or chemical fighting agents as very small. After 11 September, a number of measures have been taken to ensure the necessary preparedness and security. Close cooperation between civil society and defence has been established. Military units and equipment are also important resources in support of civil society. Police have initiated preparatory and operational actions in accordance with their specific terrorist and sabotage plans. Increased safety measures have also been implemented for aviation safety, telecommunications, postal services, energy and other societally critical activities. Militaryly, too, preparedness has been strengthened. There are called-in crews from the Home Office to perform the necessary watch and protective duties. We've strengthened the hunting gear in South Norway. The measures taken are of a preparatory nature. The purpose is to prepare ourselves for the fact that we would face a real threat. The authorities are continuously assessing the situation and, if necessary, we will take new action. Fear of terror has become part of everyday life in our country as well. I understand well the turmoil that is taking place. But uncertainty, fear and powerlessness will reinforce the effects of these acts of terror. That is why we are facing the situation with a clear attitude and with targeted actions. The external threat must not create an internal uncertainty: we cancel a holiday trip, we do not go to visit friends and relatives abroad, we do not seek the experiences that would otherwise enrich us, researchers cancel congresses with colleagues, contacts become smaller. This is the inner enemy. International terrorism also strikes by spreading fear and disgust. Our most important effort is not to give in to this. The fight against international terrorism will be a long one. We will win this fight. In a broad coalition across borders and previous dividing lines, we can lay the foundation for international security and stability. This is not just a fight against terrorism. This is a struggle for the international order of justice, for interpersonal relations, for free and open societies, for tolerance, for the human world itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-08.ana.ud2577e215	The President proposes that the Prime Minister's statement be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-08.ana.ud2577e229	This may seem a little small, taking into account the statement we have just had – but still. Let me make it clear that the Centre Party has been and is against Norwegian participation in the Schengen cooperation. It is justified in terms of privacy, refugee and asylum policy, the need for border control and the integration of the Schengen Agreement into the EU. We are very concerned not to build walls around Europe. The fact that we cannot support the proposal of the representative, Mr Bastesen, is because we cannot go along with the justification given for reintroducing the border control. This is mainly based on the grounds of the proposal relating to immigration policy. The centre party does not exclude that we are at a later stage and with a different reason from that given in Document No. The 8 proposal, will propose the Norwegian withdrawal of the Schengen cooperation. But the conclusion is that the Central Party will not support the Bastesen proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-08.ana.ud2577e238	The SV was also against the Schengen Agreement for three important reasons. First of all, we see that cooperation is part of the construction of a union, to which we actually said no. The second is that we see that Schengen cooperation, the Schengen Agreement, or common refugee and asylum policies, as this is also about, are a way of building a wall – a fortress – against the poor part of the world, and we have seen some grotesque consequences of this very wall. The third is legal certainty and privacy. We warned that border control would be replaced by an even greater and more extensive control in the country. We also warned against that it would mean registration in the systems SIS and SIRENE, and I would like to remind you that the supervisory board for just these is slaughtering legal certainty as a result of the more arbitrary registration that exists there. We see the outlines of a ‘Brother sees you’ society, and we believe – and warn against – that it will go in the opposite direction to what was the conclusion after the Lund Commission, namely that intelligence must be subject to democratic control. SV likes to re-fight the Schengen Agreement – we want to re-fight the Schengen Agreement. But if that is to happen, it must be done on a much wider basis than this proposal, and it must be done on the basis of a wider mobilisation outside this house. And so it is that, like the Central Party, SV cannot accept the most important basis for this proposal, which was also the basis of which Bastesen put forward when he presented it, namely that we cannot let terrorists into this country – as if those who come here are mainly terrorists. It's a suspicion of those who come here that we can't accept. Our EU resistance, both in terms of resistance to becoming members and in terms of resistance to adapting to the EU, is based on a spirit of solidarity. That is why we cannot support this proposal, and we are going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-08.ana.ud2577e249	We have just heard the Prime Minister's presentation of the war situation in Norway. It should be a wake-up call for those parties that are now saying that we should have open borders and free movement without border control to this country. Border control does not exist today. Fourteen days ago, I came from Brussels to the Gardermoen, and it was not a single policeman to see. You can come from anywhere in Europe and into Norway without being controlled. We're in a war situation. The last disclosure in today's news was that the banking system of the al-Qaida terrorists is largely based on cash transfers. It has been revealed that there are also departments here in Norway. We experience people here in Oslo and Norway celebrating the attacks on the United States and the two towers of the World Trade Center, while expressing concern! This is the situation in Norway today. Talking about solidarity, talking about open borders for the poor to flow into the country, becomes a little strange to me. We have a situation in this country where there is a growing dissatisfaction with the policies being pursued. What about the police who are going to implement the laws we adopt here in Stortinget? Today, there are people in the police stations who are demanding political asylum. We have no idea where they came from. Multiple of them lie about their identity, they lie about where they come from, and of course the police have to investigate this. In the past, at least border controls could show them back to the country they came from when they obviously lied. In the context of the implementation of the Schengen Agreement, the authorities have assessed the possibility of establishing a system of control, a so-called back-country control. This would compensate for the border control. But there's a lot of evidence that this check isn't in place, and at least it doesn't work. Border control is needed to effectively combat cross-border crime and terrorism – the situation we are in the middle of today, as the Prime Minister has explained. We need border control to prevent the emergence of an illegal labour market. There is currently just a black market for money. International solidarity is best demonstrated by preventing and mitigating conflicts in the world and contributing to a fairer distribution of resources. In order to prevent conflicts in our society, immigration should also be limited and controlled. So it's to prevent conflicts. The main elements of the control should be an open border check by the police. What kind of benefits does the Norwegian community have because we have open borders without control? For me, it is totally unimaginable that in such a situation as we have today, we should still have open borders. However, it is clear that I am getting the majority in this Chamber against me on this proposal. I also discovered this when it could not even be sent to committee, where the different parties can notify in writing what they think about this problem. The majority in Stortinget is not afraid to decide either. They don't dare write on paper what they really mean, but just make sure to get the proposal down, about without debate. However, I am pleased to hear the further argument for completely open borders without control.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-08.ana.ud2577e266	I would recommend that the representatives of the Progress Party vote against the proposal, in particular because it is based largely on misunderstandings on the part of the proposer. Firstly, a statement from the Oslo Police District, which was known to the Stortinget when Schengen cooperation was approved, is therefore not new. When Mr. The Bastisen talks about free and fully open borders, it is really about the border with Sweden. Before Schengen cooperation, it was above the Svinesund approx. 1 pst. which was checked. Since the Nordic passport union, Norway's border with Sweden and Denmark has been largely open. It is not possible to stop the false asylum seekers who cross the border by going back to the situation before Schengen. It is the internal control in Norway and in Europe that needs to be improved, and it is the policy pursued in this area in dealing with applications that needs to be radically tightened up. I hope the government will soon take hold of that. Now that it appears to be 16 000 asylum seekers this year and possibly even more next year, it is obvious that the vast majority are not real refugees, but people who want to circumvent the rules of our immigration stop and get to stay in Norway on the wrong basis. Going back to the minimum border control we had before the Schengen cooperation began will have no significance or practical effect on the reasons which Mr. Bastesen says. It won't matter at all in the real world. We must be committed to strengthening Schengen cooperation, strengthening control in Europe, strengthening the fight against organised crime and terrorism. Doing something about the border control that was effectively removed for a long, long, long time ago will have no practical significance in this way. We understand some of the bastesen's reasons and agree with them, but going back to the border control before the Schengen cooperation started has no practical significance. That is why I would recommend that the Progress Party vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-08.ana.ud2577e273	I wasn't going to take the word, but I didn't think the statements that the representative Bastisen made about what this really is about can be dissented in this room. The fact that Schengen was linked to the appointment of the Prime Minister is something I must take a strong step away from. When it comes to the flights that went against the World Trade Center, there would have been no better if Schengen had not been found. It is similar to the transfers of funds that the representative Bastesen is talking about, that this is also happening in Norway. It would have been no difference if we had had Schengen or not. I respect the fact that the representative Mr Bastesen wants an amendment to the Schengen Agreement, and also for the parties who have argued for it. It's a full legal position, of course. But the kind of combination, the kind of argument that the representative Bastisen made today, one must at least distance from the pulpit, and that's what it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-08.ana.ud2577e280	I ask for the floor because of a point in what is involved. That is what refers to the statement from the Oslo Police District, and which, quite rightly, as the representative Hagen said, was known for the Stortinget. In this context, the representative Mr Bastesen made some points of view that I need to explain and comment on. It is that the Police Directorate has issued instructions to the police responsible for internal borders to prioritize and systematize police efforts to combat both general border crime and illegal immigration. These are instructions intended to meet the needs set out by the Oslo Police District in the consultation opinion referred to by the Bastesen representative in his proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-08.ana.ud2577e285	It may have been unnecessary to take the word, but when so many have done it, I will do it too. I would just like to point out that the argument underlying the proposal that has been made related to the need to amend the Schengen Agreement is unacceptable to the Right. My advice to our group is, of course, that we are voting against the proposal that has now been put forward in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-08.ana.ud2577e290	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-08.ana.ud2577e298	Then we're ready to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-08.ana.ud2577e305	A vote shall be taken on the proposal of the Coastal Party in Document No. 8:9. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to reintroduce Norwegian border control against Schengen.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-08.ana.ud2577e325	There is no record.
