ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e38	The representatives of Marit Tingelstad and Lars Gunnar Lie, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: From the appointed Grand Delegation to Slovenia, there is an application for a permit signed by the Head of Delegation, President of the Grand Duchy of Grondahl. The application concerns the period from 8 May to 10 May of the President of the United Kingdom of Great Britain Kirsti Kolle Grondahl and the representatives Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Reidun Gravdahl, Bjørn Hernæs, Terje Johansen and Harald T. Nesvik. The representative of Haakon Blankenborg applied for leave on 9 and 10 May to attend a conference in Bratislava, Slovakia. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For East-Agder County: Alf-Eivind LjøstadFor Akershus County: Borghild TendenFor Buskerud County: Gerd JohnsenFor Hedmark County: Magnhild Offeth OlrudFor Møre and Romsdal County: Gerd FlatsetFor Uppland County: Kjell Ivar Fossnes and Gry Larsen3. Borghild Tenden, Gerd Johnsen, Kjell Ivar Fossnes and Gry Larsen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Terje Johansen, Kirsti Kolle Grondahl and Reidun Gravdahl.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e116	Alf-Eivind Ljøstad, Borghild Tenden, Gerd Johnsen, Magnhild Byseth Olrud, Gerd Flatset and Kjell Ivar Fossnes are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e121	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e126	I allow myself to propose Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e131	Kenneth Svendsen has been proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen is considered unanimously elected president of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e139	The representative, Karin Andersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e143	On behalf of Rolf Rekvam, Ursula Evje and myself, I would like to propose the necessary measures to ensure that people with reading and writing difficulties have real opportunities to get higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e148	The representative, Hilde Frafjord Johnson, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e151	On behalf of the representatives Odd Einar Dørum, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, Anita Apelthun Seele and myself, I am promoting a private proposal to set up a host facility in the framework of the Foreign Affairs Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e156	The representative, Inger Stolt-Nielsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e159	On behalf of the representative Steinar Bastesen and myself, I would like to make a private proposal on measures to ensure that deaf and severely hearing-impaired children are properly treated in good time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e164	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e174	Many suggest that future historians will look back on the period between 1980 and 2020 as an epoch when people reorganized important parts of their working life, organisational life and social life around a new tool — a new idea. These four decades mark the transition to the digital age — from an era driven by machines to an era driven by computer chips, the small electronic brain that exists in everything from cars and refrigerators to mobile phones and computers. The Danish Institute for Future Research has pointed to four driving forces behind the major changes we are now in the middle of: digitization globalisation individualization value orientation These cancers affect the way we interact – regardless of geography and distance. Many fundamental parts of our society are changing — the institutions, businesses, housing patterns, organisations, administration, the family and the economy themselves. Digitalisation has the potential to change reality – geographical and physical – and our perception of reality. The new digital technology is increasing the pace of globalisation and the individualisation of our societies. Globalisation contributes to the more and more impact of both nations, enterprises and individuals on the same trends, whether of an economic, political or cultural nature. The world is changing by facilitating the cross-border movement of goods, services and capital. Attitudes, values and ideas spread longer and faster. We get a new and global basis for comparison of wages, labour and lifestyles. The extension of globalisation is increasingly focused on local identity, as digitisation provides opportunities for tailor-made services. The individualisation of society is becoming effective through increasing demands for tailor-made solutions. This is not least challenging to the general government. When the online bank is available 24 hours a day, why should the management not be the same? Moreover, large savings can be made through the use of digital solutions. In this way, digitization creates more rings in the water. A few months ago, I visited the Internet AS. This Norwegian airline has also become a pioneer in terms of Internet use. The head office of the Internet is located in the Lake of Mosque, and serves as a good example of the removal of the new technology, but is looking for knowledge. The Internet also illustrates how new and Internet-based solutions create more demanding users. When you can go into the airlines' computer systems to order your flight yourself, why can't you do the same with the kindergarten? When you can use the WAP phone to find out if your plane is on the route, why not check with the municipality if your building application is on the route? The government's IT policy is therefore an important part of the task of renewing the public sector, to which Minister of Labour and Administration Jørgen Kosmo will come back in his statement on Thursday. Value orientation in relation to products and services is also becoming stronger. Just think of the growing family, which is the most communicative generation ever. This will also affect the attitudes of these generations. For us good adults are e.g. The paperpaper newspaper is of course a good one, but may not believe that today's SMS generation is going to ask critical questions about the actual resource use related to newspaper production, when they are already receiving the information in digital form themselves. With this I would say that new generations are probably going to evaluate many such relationships in a completely different way from what we are used to today. Those who believe that dotcom death is the nail in the coffin of the IT revolution are seriously wrong. Recent figures show that digital Norway continues to develop at high speed. Competence, experience and technology are not gone – on the contrary. It's when the new technology and the new solutions gradually become all-round, that we will experience the greatest changes. More than half of the country's households are now connected to the Internet, and two out of three Nordics have access to the Internet at home or at work. This puts us in the top of the world. The increase is also marked in terms of Internet use. Over 1 million Norwegians use the Internet bank, and this year almost 400,000 Norwegians have delivered their tax returns over the Internet. According to their own figures, the second largest country-based industry in Norway is EUR 220 billion in turnover in 2000. We don't have exact figures for the value added part, but the central statistical agency states an average value creation share of 30 pst. in 1998. When the Workers' Party took over the government offices a little over a year ago, we realized that there was a need for even stronger coordination of IT policy. Many good initiatives were taken, but they were in different departments and lacked a common overall strategy – or drive. At the same time, the EU is working to develop eEurope, an action plan for IT, to meet the challenges of the United States and Asia. In the light of this, we reorganized the department, set up a separate department of IT policy and started, as announced in my presentation on 9 May last year, work on drawing up an eNorway plan. In the debate following the presentation, it was emphasised that Norway should follow up on eEurope, and 14 days after the launch of eEurope, we launched version 1.0 of eNorway. The eNorway plan is based on the eEurope framework but adapted to Norwegian circumstances. Norway is formally integrated into the EU work on comparative statistics – benchmarking – of eEurope. In a few days’ time, I will present a supplement to an EU report showing Norway's position in relation to other countries across the IT field. The eNorway plan has been well received from many teams, especially because it is a binding document which is still to be renewed. International interest has also led to the next version of the plan being available in German, English and French. In the EU Commission report to the Nice ministerial meeting in December, eNorway was the only national IT plan specifically mentioned. eNorway is a process plan that is rolled every six months. eNorway version 2.0 came in December, and version 3.0 was launched in June. 16 departments contribute, and the goal is to bring everyone. In version 3.0, we will also further develop and concreteise the environmental dimension of a sustainable IT policy. Every month, the Government eCoordinator – State Secretary Tore O. Sandvik of the Ministry of Industry and Trade – reports directly to the Prime Minister on developments in eNorway. The reporting itself is carried out together with the State Council responsible for the main theme of the month. In this way, we anchor and visualize the IT bet in each department. The eighth report in the series was presented yesterday, in cooperation with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, where the theme was electronic construction processing. In version 2.0 of eNorway also HSH, LO, NHO and KS with their own attachments participated. We are now developing this partnership further. We've created our own eNorway partner brand that belongs to those who meet certain criteria. This partnership shall also include municipalities and counties. The aim of the eNorway plan is to contribute to the creation of an information society for all. This is a value measure. We want everyone to be involved, and we want to use the new technology to develop the knowledge society in an environmentally friendly direction. eNorway is based on three columns: access competence trust We've told everyone to be there. This means that we must also ensure all access to the new technology. However, access is of little help if we don't understand how to use it, or if we don't see the benefits of it. Competence building measures are therefore important, such as the SND e-commerce programme VeRDi or our support for the great SeniorSurf day, where national seniors are introduced into the Internet. The Government’s broadband action plan is also important to ensure access to all. I'll get it back to you. The e-for all forum, set up by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, also plays an important role, including: proposing measures in relation to the rolling of the eNorway plans. Trust is important. The IT services shall be safe and accessible to all, irrespective of status or level of competence. A wide-ranging work group has been set up to address the safe use of the Internet in schools. Trust is closely linked to security and vulnerability. Today, we are so dependent on information and communication technology that even a simple failure can have consequences for energy supply, telecommunications, fuel supply, payment delivery, business and health. The Vulnerability Committee’s setting, ‘A vulnerable society’ points out, among others: that today’s society is more vulnerable than before, that security challenges are significantly changed, and that the threat picture is shifted from manual to electronic. The government will follow the proposal of the Vulnerability Committee and present a big message on social security and preparedness by the end of this year. As part of that follow-up, the Ministry of Industry and Trade assesses the establishment of a Information Security Centre in cooperation with industry and relevant authorities. Technology must never be the goal itself. On the other hand, IT is a powerful tool that can be used to achieve greater policy objectives. But without control, technological development will fall into our backs and drive us into a society we don't want. The government will clean up the health system. We want to ensure good offers in all parts of the country, cut waiting lists for hospital treatment, and ensure better organisation so that healthcare providers get good treatment and do not lie in the hall. This computer can't do for us, but they can help us a lot on the way, so for example. healthcare professionals are given more time to patients. The government wants a working life for everyone. There should be good opportunities to combine family and work. Older people and workers with reduced working capacity shall be given the opportunity to combine work and social security. People have to get a chance to work where they live. In rural areas, there are great opportunities for value creation and opportunities for new and secure jobs, including: by developing aquaculture, organic farming and processing through the use of the new technology. By means of broadband and other forms of communication, we now have better opportunities to provide education throughout our lives, while at the same time becoming less important. New technological solutions allow more people with disabilities to have a new chance in the labour market and allow Norway to benefit from more undiscovered talents. The Norwegian school shall be at the front international, including in the use of new technologies. The students run a lot of this themselves, but using digital learning materials and investing in the teachers, we will build the school of the future. With increasing use of the Internet and new and more demanding applications, transmission capacity or bandwidth requirements are increasing, as experts call it. So broadband means nothing but high transmission capacity, which is especially important for the transmission of audio and images. The effect of broadband will include, inter alia: make use of new approaches to health care, e.g.: in the case of consultations and verification. Patient, patient data and doctor may be in three different locations. At the same time, broadband provides opportunities for new methods of knowledge development, including: using multimedia in educational situations. Good broadband coverage is important for business and management efficiency. It is important for the level of innovation and is important for balancing social and regional differences in the country. The government's objectives are: through enhanced competition and public demand to contribute to good market offer for broadband network connectivity to all primary and secondary schools, public libraries, hospitals and municipal administrations by the end of 2002 good market offer for broadband network connectivity for all Norwegian households by the end of 2004 The size has adhered to the strategy that market actors are responsible for the development of the necessary infrastructure. However, in order to achieve this, it is necessary to stimulate competition at all levels of the market. Today, developments are dynamic and market actors are investing heavily in both upgrading and building new infrastructure. It is important to follow closely the growth rate of broadband networks in the market, including: as a basis for deciding which areas the market cannot cover with broadband networks, and broadband services at reasonable prices and within a reasonable time. In order to help increase the rate of expansion, the Government sees it as a challenge to create more concentrated regional demand, for example: through municipal and inter-municipal cooperation projects and through sectoral initiatives. Pilot projects to gain experience with different models for the development of broadband and broadband services have been launched through the High Level Programme of the Norwegian Research Council. Experience so far shows that there are relatively small government grants to trigger significant funds both from local and local communities and also from local businesses. Broadband expansion in municipalities varies greatly, and some municipalities have come further than others in terms of broadband development and use of IT in general. The bell municipality is a good example. A good idea, a good plan and a grant of NOK 900000 from the HØYKOM scheme have given a very good return. In the summer of 2000, 34 businesses or institutions were connected to the network, and several were waiting. The HØYKOM bet has triggered over 50 million. private sector kr in addition to over 2 million. from the public sector. Intermunicipal cooperation can also be an effective way of bringing together demand in a region. An example is the ‘Ryfylke project’ in which six municipalities cooperate in the development of high-speed telecommunications networks. This cooperation has given the Ryfylke region broadband at the same price as Stavanger City. The project is an example of a central strategy in the broadband plan, namely to stimulate the development of broadband through the market mechanism, with increased public demand as a response. In 2001, it's set at $15 million. kr to bet on broadband in the public libraries. Action against libraries aims to strengthen the function of public libraries as a resource centre for the local administration and the local business community, inter alia. by facilitating distance learning and videoconferencing. The broadband effort towards the public libraries is based on the vision that the public libraries will be able to play a new and expanded role as the dissemination arena for large population groups. Widebands in public libraries must also be seen in a social cohesion perspective. The overall effort this year and up to the next year will be crucial for the achievement of the first objective of the broadband action plan. To achieve these objectives, there is a need for a common commitment, where governments, organisations and businesses work together, both nationally and in the regions. In this context, it is important to use the municipalities where things are going well, as models and good examples for follow-up. In January, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health presented a new IT action plan for electronic interaction in the healthcare sector. During the course of 2001-2003, all hospitals, doctors and healthcare professionals should have access to an electronic health network to exchange information. The development of broadband is part of this plan. There is a significant savings potential in the wide application of electronic interaction and information exchange. For example, the social security system alone will be able to release nearly 200-300 annual works by receiving electronic medical bills, sick messages and declarations of incapacity for work. Telemedical consultations between hospitals and primary health services may contribute to the reduction of travel reimbursement over the social security budget, and patients in care services may miss out on a difficult journey to a specialist where telemedicine can provide an equally good service. It is also about improving quality of life and security. It is estimated that about a billion dollars a year can be saved for the sector as a whole. Content and content providers are expected to become crucial in the future in the economy and in the development of the information society. Incentives to the Norwegian content industry will be necessary, inter alia: to preserve and further develop our own language and cultural heritage. Broadband development and convergence development open up entirely new opportunities in relation to product and service development. An electronic communications infrastructure could be used for broadcasting and interactive communication, including: convey images, sounds and text. Therefore, we need to focus more on the content and application as the broadband expands. Demand for content in general, and Norwegian content in particular, may be the most important driver for broadband development. There is a significant potential for industrial development in the content area if Norway is to be ahead of the development of products and value-added services. Transition to broadband and growing needs for digital raw data, e.g. database and map data indicate that the prerequisites for being ahead of each other also change. Norway is well advanced in the use of geographical information. The link between digital maps and other types of information represents a major growth potential, where Norway can develop market-leading services. Examples are mobile services and safe transport by land, sea and air. In order to contribute to stimulating a strong Norwegian content industry, the Government will assess an overall strategy, among other things. by connecting industry to areas of activity such as spatial data, learning, language technology and culture. Norway shall participate in the EU eContent programme. This is a four-year programme aimed at ensuring European linguistic and cultural diversity, strengthening access to capital for small and medium-sized content producers and facilitating access to public information for these enterprises. A proposition about this is dealt with in Stortinget later this week. E-learning is an area where explosive growth is expected. Developments contribute to making training an international commodity while at the same time providing a significant commercial potential that needs to be exploited. This challenges Norwegian research and education environments both in developing and using digital learning materials, creating new learning environments and researching teaching methods adapted to new media, not just transferring the old to the new. This also requires substantial efforts in the area of empowerment for teachers and teaching staff. At the beginning of 2001, provision shall be made to secondary school students on digital learning material within at least one of the common general subjects. Furthermore, a plan for long-term work on the development of digital learning material for the period 2001-2003 shall be drawn up. In the current year, a coordinated framework for the provision of continuing education and training in IT for primary, secondary and teacher teachers shall be organised. Norwegian cultural heritage contains a lot of valuable material, both for a national and an international audience. With the new technological possibilities, it's about lifting this legacy into a new medium. In particular, the NRK will play an important role. When content is rich and engaging, technological solutions will also be sought. Digitisation and globalisation open up the cultural arenas to more people and give new types of cultural impressions. You can publish self-produced films, poems, prose or music, whether you live in Hollywood or in Kjøllefjord. Culture meets technology and becomes available everywhere at the same time. This will affect both the music, film and book industries. Culture meets technology, but culture also meets culture. Norway is able to find its niches in this development and technology, and on 15 May, we are therefore organising a consultation with the Ministry of Culture on precisely cultural and industrial policy. Music, film and book publishers find it harder to decide what is good and bad culture. Trends are being created in new arenas. Traditional monopolies are being put under pressure, while new information monopolies are growing. This development will probably become stronger in the coming years, and then it will be important to prevent capital power from undermining democracy. If we do not regulate parts of this development, we can have serious setbacks in terms of both personal and consumer protection and interests that operate across the people and democracy. In this arena, we need politicians and politicians who dare to oppose the basic anarchistic idea that exists on the Internet in several areas. Should the content industry flourish, the copyright framework must also be in place. Music, film, pictures, magazines, newspapers and literature are increasingly being disseminated over the Internet. Copyright applies by electronic means as much as in the ‘analogue’ world. Among the challenges that legislators face in terms of copyright both nationally and internationally is the extent to which exclusive rights should go and who, if necessary, should be held liable for the illicit distribution of protected material. The electronic market is international and Norway can only be in the forefront of e-commerce if we are competitive internationally. It is therefore important to follow up cooperation on the establishment of international driving rules. Authorities have an important role to play in reducing barriers to e-commerce in Norway. An example is the eRegel project designed to remove unnecessary legal barriers to electronic communications in today's legislation. Work has gone a long way, and the Government will present an overall proposal in August proposing a number of legislative adjustments. Furthermore, the Electronic Signature Act will enter into force on 1 July of this year. The aim of the law is to increase trust and use of electronic signatures. Access to secure electronic signatures will be an important factor in being willing to use electronic communications. The public also has an important role to play as a model for electronic commerce as a main choice in procurement. A programme under the auspices of the Ministry of Labour and Administration facilitates electronic commerce in the public sector. The government recently sent out a big SND message. The Communication emphasises that SND should be part of a comprehensive industrial policy. The central objective is to have a business with a high level of innovation and a high level of competence. Therefore, IT is not just a phenomenon for the IT industry. It is primarily a phenomenon for our entire established business and for the business that is not yet established. Large as small enterprises, high- or low-technology – without using the new technology and its potential, development will overwhelm them. In the globalised economy, we need to develop and attract the best skills in the areas in which we want to invest. For this reason, the Government has now made proposals for embellishment in the provisions on labour immigration. The long-term programme states that the rules on labour migration should be simplified and liberalised. Among other things, an annual ceiling is proposed for the number of specialists/trainees granted a work permit without an individual labour market assessment of the application. In addition, it is proposed that a three-month jobseeker visa be granted to professionals and specialists wishing to work in Norway. Increased labour migration is important, but we must not dwell on the situation that we only exploit half of the population. This is why the Government wants to improve the situation so that women can become more active in the IT industry than they are today. There is therefore reason to commend the ICT Norway stakeholder organisation which has launched its own mentoring scheme for girls in the IT industry to help them up and down. A wish that was promoted during a recent consultation with women in the new economy was that funding schemes for new entrants should be improved. It does not help to allow SND to grant grants if they do not also have the opportunity to follow up on additional funding. Therefore, in order for SND to assist women entrepreneurs to a greater extent than today, we have proposed that there should be a special focus on the needs of women established. We have also stressed that the gender perspective should be an integral part of the entire SND business. In February, the Government presented its own strategy for the export and internationalisation of the IT industry. The government's aim is to help the industry develop an offensive attitude to its international challenges and opportunities. At the same time, we will continue to work on building eNorway as a strong brand and attention trap in the markets, regions and countries that are interesting to Norway. According to OECD figures, there are 94 million Internet servers worldwide. 95.4 pst. These are found in OECD countries. This is a paradox. While IT globalizes the economy, we also see that growth is concentrated in the rich countries, and that differences between north and south are now only increasing. During the Prime Minister’s India visit, a cooperation agreement was launched between the Norwegian development company InSpire and two Indian data companies, one for cooperation on e-learning, with a first project to provide IT training to disabled people in cooperation with Norwegian FunkWeb, founded by the FFO, the Disability Joint Organisation, the other for the commercialisation of a Norwegian display technology originally developed by PolyDisplay in Sandefjord for Defence, to be used in a project called Simputer. Researchers at the Institute of Science in Bangalore have developed a handheld ‘speaking’ PC for poor villagers and for illiterates. Norwegian display technology makes it possible to use the computer in full daylight mode, and this may lead to major breakthroughs. These are examples of international cooperation that both have important industrial development potentials and at the same time contribute to reducing the digital, social divides that we now see. If we are to develop a strong national knowledge base that allows the application and exploitation of the opportunities offered by IT development for business and society, it is necessary to invest in research. Therefore, IT is one of the priority areas of Norwegian research policy, covered by Stortinget’s documents. The aim of the research is to stimulate the development and use of IT in industry, in the public sector and in society at large. It is now working on a strategy for IT research in Norway. A key challenge is to bridge and strengthen the interaction between research in industry and research activities at universities and institutes. It's also a pleasure that we're now moving forward in the development of Fornebu. The Centre for Excellent Research, which has been named Simula Research Laboratories, is active. The question of transport solution is about to be clarified in Stortinget. Telenor's new building will receive its first employees later this year. IT Fornebu is on. Now we'll soon be able to see an initial concreteization of the visions that Stortinget used in its decisions. To understand the new economy and the changes that are going on around us, we also have to consider that the new generations are more communicative than ever before. The leaders of tomorrow, that is. our children and young people experience a daily life that gives the concepts of communication and accessibility a whole new meaning. Children and young people belong to a generation that takes it for granted to be available. They operate independently of time zones and geography. And these are the ones that are going to create the values of the future in Norway. At the same time, we must ensure that the whole population is given the new opportunities offered by technology. Norway is well ahead of this trend. We have ambitions to remain among the foremost. When new IT companies are to be set up, we need to ensure that Norway is even more selected as a location country and as a test country. We will ensure that we develop an information and knowledge society in which everyone participates. It's no small ambition; it's very demanding. We have to make sure that we take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the new technology, be it in private life, in work, in school and in the public sector. Because hope is that we get a better and simpler everyday life, where we can also get more time for each other. The IT revolution is not dead. That's when it starts for real. Our challenge is to bring everyone, old and young, in the centre and periphery, and still be among the leading countries in the world. eNorway is and will be a national virtue that we have to be together about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e395	The President will propose that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade's statement on IT policy be debated at a later meeting — and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e405	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Twist Party 5 minutes and one of the independent representatives 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e416	I'm glad to say that this was a very positive statement from the Minister for Fisheries. It is important that we feel that what is called illegalities in our fisheries is taken seriously and that it is working on it. It is important for our management of fisheries resources that we know for sure what is going on, and for the resource control that we stand for, that we know that there is not too much or too little fish. And what has happened has created a great deal of interest in this. Although neither this debate nor the presentation is so much interested here in the Chamber, it has been of great interest. And it has to. Then I told the council that I think it could be in place with some praise from him to those who got the snowball to roll. It's not that many months since there was a lot of lookup. We have had even greater suggestions about other things, but it has been shown that there was enough hold in the claims made in this case. The council says that not all the charges have been documented, and I agree, but we have had cases where there has been much more of that, but where it has been found that there has been less team in it. This time there was more hold on it. There is no longer any doubt about the seriousness of this matter. The council says it could be up to 20 pst. quota rounds, but we're not sure how much that is. The presentation was thorough. It says that it is demanding to create and maintain neat conditions within the industry, but that what is needed is to be done. And I think there's a lot of work done in a short time. There was a need for tightening up from the department to the jack. I believe the Council of State is clear. He's been a lot of places. He has, among other things, ensuring that the penalties provided by our legislation are used in some cases, and more people will be strengthened. So there's a need for cooperation, for the intensifications that happen, and there's a need for relaxation about what's being done. Nevertheless, it is that management and the government focus on this, are around talking about it, and continue with it, which is important. I believe to be able to say that there will be positive positions in the Storting where a decision on appropriations is needed to follow up this programme and to clarify and adopt criminal rules that are needed. I also have the impression that, with regard to the operators in the fisheries sector, they will clean up when they realize that everyone is required to comply with the rules. Creating new ethical attitudes is demanding, but I believe that there are not so many years we have had these problems. One important point is to create simpler rules for those who are in the boat, and for those who are on the dock. I know that the fishermen's organisations have managed well to propose and contribute to such rules, and I also believe that we agree on them together. We have been documented in the statement that the EEA Agreement has locked many inspectors to the office chair, and that therefore there is a need for many new posts, as proposed by the Government with the first. Otherwise, I would like to stress that the Coast Guard is getting enough resources within the new defence that we are going to have and that is now being debated in Stortinget. It is also important when the Coast Guard intervenes, that the responses to illegalities become strict – and stricter than they have been. It turns out that warnings can be in the mildest form. Then I also hope that the police will be able to set aside resources so that we can get a quick charge, and that the cases that are going to be brought before the court will be there. There is a common problem with environmental crime, that the police have no resources to devote to those issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e433	It's a serious matter we're discussing in Stortinget today. It is about fish fraud in different parts of the fishing industry. But initially, I want to say quite clearly that I have a great deal of respect for the Norwegian fishermen. I like to work with the Norwegian fishermen, so I don't want to imagine the situation as if it's just the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who know everything right. In this case, we must assume without delay that we need to have a cooperation to get to grips with each other. The Minister of Fisheries's interpretation of the law and control in the fishing industry is a serious signal that, after all, there is a cause for concern and error and that something has to be done. This is serious for many reasons. Norway has rights and access to some of the world's largest and most productive coastal and marine areas. Continental Soccer Areas, coastal seas and coasts provide particularly good opportunities for long-term and resilient housing and the cultivation of renewable resources of many different kinds. This provides a good basis for a profitable, viable industry along the whole coast. I would like to stress that renewable marine resources are involved, but there are no inexhaustible resources. I also think we should remind each other that there are actually several Norwegian fish species that have been missing the total number of downfishes before, and we have to do everything we can to avoid it happening again. A resilient resource management is a logical and self-evident requirement for us to manage these values in a long-term perspective. Norway has a history as a fishing nation to take care of, and fishing has been a completely central and necessary commitment to the basis of life as long as it has commanded people in this country. It is also worth noting that the ability to manage these resources is a responsibility. As more and more of the fishing becomes concession-based, the responsibility for the few who receive shelter on behalf of all of us increases. And it is quite clear that violations of the glare are both environmental and economic crime. Norway has a good reputation as a good manager of fish resources. This is a reputation that is of great value to the marketing and trust of our fish product. We signal that we should take care of this and that we should have control of what we are doing. It is not for nothing that, in the context of the Norwegian fishing industry’s perspective notification, the Storting list that one of the objectives is to be the world’s foremost fishing nation in terms of fisheries management. We also have to bear in mind that the fact that we can sign with such ambition, and that we really implement it, is a very good negotiation card in relation to the allocation of allowances. I would also like to suggest that our researchers should be able to give advice, that we have to include all the elements in the calculation models, and that is not enough for us to be able to produce a comprehensive black fish. It is appropriate for the fishing industry and those who have their daily function there not to be seen in the high-seat. The government has indicated that through market interest and increased value creation, we will provide the industry with a basis for job creation, coastal construction and development. This has also been the subject of the recent long-term report to the Stortinget. Fishing is one of the most district-oriented industries we have, and it forms the basis for much of our coastal settlement and activity. Furthermore, this industry is a monthly contributor to our national value creation, and it is an industry with great potential for development in the future. Short-term economic gains for some operators must not be destroyed for such an important industry. Therefore, when you know that there really is a basis for it, it has to be strongly reduced. It is important that the problems are met by several measures across a broad field, which the Minister for Fisheries has taken full advantage of. I want to focus in particular on some important grips that are proposed. Effectiveness of the control apparatus itself can give good benefits in terms of more control of the money. Therefore, coordination between the Directorate of Fisheries, the Coast Guard and the salsa seemed to be a good step forward. This can prevent duplication of work and make better use of the different competences of each other within the industry. Similarly, available technologies must be put to the best use. Coordination and exchange of information are important steps in this area which provide better transparency and, consequently, means of control. It's important that we learn from others, that we systematize the data that we collect, and that we practice maximum openness when it comes to catch data. The legislation and rules must also be strengthened to adapt them to the current situation, with a fishing fleet with more fishing capacity than the quotas. The rules must be transparent, relevant and no more complex than is necessary. I agree with the Minister for Fisheries when he says that proper rules are not a firm state, but rather a process involving the operators in the industry. It is therefore commendable that the Minister for Fisheries has invited business organisations and individual business operators to make proposals for regulatory changes. The operators should be aware of their visit time here. I think one should consider putting a greater responsibility on the individual skipper on the individual boat. An environmental or resource certificate should be considered in addition to the normal navigation certificates. In this way, a certificate may also be lost if the profession is not practised in a advisable way. There will be no need for more controls to be applied at an acceptable level. The Council of State says that he will propose to the Stortinget a strengthening of the Directorate of Fisheries, so that the Directorate can have 30 new inspectorate settings for landing and document control. Furthermore, the Directorate-General for Fisheries needs to strengthen staffing in relation to satellite tracking, other information gathering and analysis with nine key positions in the Directorate-General for Fisheries and ten positions in the regional offices. Coast Guards will also be provided with additional resources. I am confident that these are all necessary disposals. There are technical solutions that strengthen control and thus increase the risk of taking if a breach is made. Unfortunately, we are content to strengthen this control. However, we have to remind each other that if the individual actor does not understand or wants to conform to what is in common best, which will also be his best, we will never be able to bring the illegal to life. It's all about postures, respect and knowledge. It's about respect for the fact that there's a lot of people involved when the whole industry's troubling is on the agenda. Knowledge that there is the same own basis of life that is at stake when breaking laws and overfishing must occur. Like the Council of State, I have great faith in the fishing industry and the operators there, one should not happen to everyone over one comb. That's what I used to be, a lot of great practitioners in this profession. It is important that we stand together, the authorities and the actors in the industry. The grips to restore trust need to be reworked. Norway has been and should be a respected and trustworthy supplier of good, safe and exciting food in all markets where we shop. In this context, a long tradition of marine production is guaranteed by joint efforts, while at the same time laying the foundation for great potential for the future. I would also like to signal that when the Council of State comes back to the Storting in budgetary context with the necessary additions to strengthen its control, we will of course support the whole heart about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e465	The next speaker is Jon Lilletun. Sir. Lilletun has a speaking time of up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e468	On an incubation our secretariat has given false notice to the Presidency. The representative Lilletun will ask for 5 minutes and the representative Randi Karlstrøm will be listed with 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e473	This is the speaking time of the Christian People's Party, and of course the President will let the representative be heard. This means that speaking time is set at 5 minutes for Mr. Little thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e476	Thank you for that. Norway is responsible for some of the world's largest and most productive coastal and marine areas, says the Minister for Fisheries at the beginning of the distribution. This is, of course, correct and gives Norway enormous opportunities, but also great obligations. As a nation, we are totally dependent on international trust in how we manage these marine areas. Therefore, the detection of an extensive fraud in the fishing industry is so serious for us and so necessary to clean up. I would like to pay tribute to the Minister for Fisheries both for a wide review of the situation and for the breadth and content of the measures he has seen and will implement. How can such a situation arise? There's probably a lot of answers to that. However, I would like to agree with the Minister in what he said at the end of the distribution saying, that attitudes and ethics are one of the most important things we can focus on to reverse the negative developments. Yes, I will actually go a step further than the Minister of Fisheries. I will delete ‘maybe’ from the main part of the measures and say that it is the most important part. The board that you should not steal is top-notch here. This is a form of community robbery, a form of tax evasion, and similar to other tax evasion, it also affects those who do not participate in theft. This can actually have so fatal consequences that it eradicates a population in its entirety, with the consequences it has for our descendants, nationally and internationally. Some of the reasons why a person is comfortable can be understandable, but not acceptable. We need a code that the fisherman can understand both the meaning and the wisdom of. That is why I would like to commend the dialogue that has been carried out, in which the actors have been allowed to come forward with proposals and one has had a meeting to discuss this. I am a follower of simple, clear rules, but they should also be practised, as the minister has stated. Another issue that many in the industry are irritating about, and understandably do, is the management of sales and pain, and the international debate around this. When you look at the size of these species and the quantity of fish they take, there's no doubt that it would feel unnatural for a fish to get strong limits, while a fish does not properly tax these species. It's also important that we recognise it and have a resilient administration in relation to it. The Christian People's Party will agree to the measures that have been taken, and will also agree to continue with the dialogue with the industry that has been set up, and like the measures that have been announced in the announcement that one will put in place, among other things. a strong crew. We are bid to support vows in relation to it, both in the revised national budget and in the state budget. All a talker with along the coast can tell you about the heaviness of control, and then an explanation is obvious to the EEA. Without having that landing control set, we would not be able to deliver either. Difor is necessary. But at the same time, it is clear that when control is absent, it will also be more tempting to cheat. That's why we're going to agree to this. But I want to say that it is also necessary that such advice is provided, looking at the reorganization possibilities, where a person moves people from the office out to active activity in relation to the fishing ground and the place of landing. So all in all, there's a great deal of support for the distribution and the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e500	After all, there is nothing in this debate that should really mean that fraud in the fishing industry is something of a recent nature. What is well a fact is that this part of the business that is illegal, in many ways now also gets a lot of attention in an industry that also has the character of forms of discrepancy that we find in any other industry in that country. It's going to be a little bit on the side when you have to explain the state of things by referring to our EEA exposure, etc. I believe that in this debate we are best not to absolve anyone inside the industry to look for outside reasons, when we see how this has taken over in terms of a scale that the Directorate of Fisheries has now estimated up to 20 p.m. of the recorded catch. Then we talk about a level that has gradually become so large that it is clear that when the Right demanded to get the Minister of Fisheries into the Stortingen to get a statement on the matter, this question deserved the attention it has received. Now, if we were to be at a level up to 20 pst. of the recorded catch that goes beyond the notes where this is to be written down and booked, we're talking in terms of first-hand value about the amount up to NOK 2 billion. And we know that then we can multiply that number by two or three before the products reach the international market. One thing is that this is financial crime. But what's equally bad is that this gets a vignette in terms of the environmental and resource consequences of the scale that are equally serious. And it's an amount that's been increasing -- it's clearly illustrated in the Council's statement -- while we see that the resource ratio has become more and more reduced. It is part of the situation in which we have overcapacity within the industry, and just how likely some are to be overdue – where the profitability of legal instruments in hand is too small – to resort to illegalities. I think the statement we received from the Minister for Fisheries was very uplifting. It was a very concrete action plan that could be a model for all other departments when we talk about implementing policies in the short term. It's clear that when the starting point is that we have a control level below 1 pst, i.e. at 1/2 pst. of all landings, the situation indicates that we need to make some rapid grips around the situation. And then one answer is more control that has to go along with strict punishment. This means that control must be effective enough to be preventative. And knowing that the control and resource measures are extremely complicated in a highly complex industry means, of course, that there must be control in many places at the same time. It is a long, long chain of measures that need to be put in place, but I feel however that the department has been aiming to put in place all stages in the chain. One thing is that this concerns the discard of small fish. But what must be the main point now is to establish some traffic rules in this sector in consultation with industry actors. Because there is no doubt that those who have pointed out that we have a regulatory system today that unnecessarily and unintentionally creates lawbreakers within the industry, must be part of the commitment we are going to assume further, where we have to do what we can to prevent any accidental violation of the rules, and that we unnecessarily create lawbreakers. And I'm assuming that in its further follow-up, the Council of States is aiming to simplify the system, so that not what's really just a little side branch here, gets the most attention. At the same time, I just want to add that there is probably only a small minority of the players in the fishing industry who are responsible for the so-called fish yoke. But even there, more control is needed not to get into a situation where we are going to suspect a very large and important industry. Most importantly, the measures aimed at implementing the status of Norway in an international context are: It must not be a matter of Norway's status when we take other nations, other associations, into the jacket to give them in and guide them in our direction, our attitude and our policies when we talk about environmental policy, resource policy or stock control. If we are to allow ourselves to correct a index finger to others, our own path must be clean. Maybe that's the most important part of the whole follow-up we're going to take on, that we need to have our own backs free when we're going to catch up with other nations, which probably go much further than what we're doing here to land threatening a resource stock that in several important sectors is already down to a minimum. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that we must have a punishment against offenders in this sector that must be strict. This is a matter of utmost consistency in the field of environmental crime. But it must not be the case that we have to introduce different legal principles in the fisheries industry than those we have in other areas. I would also warn against that part of the debate being given too much attention and at the same time turning the aim and spotlight away from what is going on on clean fishing gear. This with punishment is, in my opinion, another debate, which we have to take. Now it is urgent to get the measures in place, and I feel that the statement we received from the Minister for Fisheries has made a strong contribution to putting in place a regulatory system that is suitable for follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e521	In the light of a significant increase in the number of reports of fish jacks, the Minister for Fisheries has explained the measures and measures to be implemented in order to clean them up. Most of these proposals will be supported by the Progress Party. Both the fishing and agricultural industries are subject to detailed regulations, with laws and regulations often more than 50 years old, adapted to other times. Politicians and bureaucrats have created a fine-skinned network, consisting of hundreds of laws and regulations. Very many of these laws and regulations are considered unreasonable, and many have problems keeping themselves up to date at all times. Fishing has long been a test cloth for the regulation of whiting. They have been a test piece for socialism, in which the private initiative was to be replaced by state regulation. Of course, all state regulation and monitoring are not unnecessary, but we have many examples of regulation that have worked to bring them into strong conflict with the markets and with what business operators feel for their own business. The large amount of regulation has become too much of a good thing, is not appropriate and is not in line with the legal opinion of many people. My call to the Minister for Fisheries: when implementing regulations, ask first whether they are necessary, whether they are reasonable, and ask whether they can be implemented in such a way that they have the effect that is intended. The Minister for Fisheries has repeatedly called for the reduction of overcapacity in the fishing fleet. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations has also pointed out that, in the future, the protection of endangered fish stocks against over-taxation and thus fish-juks requires capacity to be reduced. In a look-up in the evening post a while back, Fisheries Director Peter Gullestad said that the overcapacity of the Norwegian fishing fleet was close to 50 pst, and he concluded that this was the main reason for the extensive fishing jack. The overcapacity is due, inter alia, to: huge subsidies previously injected into the fishing industry. The Norwegian quotas could have been taken up by two thirds of the existing fishing fleet. The large overcapacity is also linked to the rapid development of technology and the reduction of the need for the number of vessels. The Group of the Party of European Socialists agrees with the Director of Fisheries in this respect. In addition to rigorous and inappropriate legislation, it is the over-capacity that must be dealt with first and foremost. It is juxtaposed most in the fisheries where there is overcapacity and where the quotas are scarce – and most of them are. The policy will therefore be important in reducing overcapacity and thus fishing jacks. What will the government do here as real monks? That's what becomes the ten thousandths of a question. In order to survive overcapacity, a unit quota scheme for the sea fishing fleet has been put in place, but that is not enough. It is visible to all and everyone with knowledge of the fishing industry. As the Storting treated the unit allowance scheme for approx. two years ago, the Progress Party wanted to put in place similar comprehensive coastal fleet arrangements. If you wanted to do something like real monks, with capacity adjustments to reduce overcapacity in fishing, you would have followed the proposals of the Progress Party. This would have been an important contribution to the coastal fleet. Furthermore, we believe that a system of tradable allowances should be considered. The operators will then be encouraged to adapt to maximise the net profit of the limited quantity of fish that may be fished each year. If we get a system of transferable allowances, we also get a market that will reveal how many there is room in the industry if both actors and society are to be given a satisfactory return.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e539	Fishing and agriculture are special industries in the sense that they must remain in ecological balance at all times. In agriculture, over the last year, we have been constantly reminded of it through the spread of jealousy and foot-and-mouth disease. In fisheries, we have been given such warnings at regular intervals by the fact that a few ‘factual’ years of over-taxation of fish stocks have led to many subsequent lean years before the populations have recovered. Therefore, if fisheries are to become the value-generating future industry for which they have the potential, we need an active and good fisheries policy to ensure sustainable resource use. A key point is to better adapt fishing capacity to the resource base, as the changes in the law on special quota schemes recently addressed by the Odelstinge are to facilitate, in the context of already established schemes. It is necessary to simplify the legislation, in particular the rules on by-catch. Complicated rules, redistribution arrangements, etc. have contributed to a weakening of the legal perception of the fishermen in this field. The complex rules may partly originate from the desire for fairness between different fishing vessels and user groups. A simpler regulation may have the effect that someone comes out worse than others. I would like to encourage the Council of State to give the work of reviewing the legislation and making it more practical, to take the highest priority, in close cooperation with business operators and the sales laws. Furthermore, it must be clear that the existing legislation must be complied with. That is what this debate is about after the many revelations and rumors of fraud and illegalities in the fishing industry. The left sees it as absolutely necessary to clear up the illegalities that have been revealed. It is of great importance, not only to industry itself, but also to Norway's reputation both as a fishing nation and as a credible environmental nation. Although, in my view, it is about the few that are destroying for the many, the whole industry has to commit itself to ending the trick. The Minister for Fisheries gave a clear overview of the measures his department plans to combat illegalities. I want to stress that here, as elsewhere in society, the easiest thing is most often the best. One of the most effective things we can do, I think, is get the Control Agency out where the fish are landed – from the offices and out on the quays. I don't believe in building up any new big organization to deal with the problems. It must be far more appropriate to exploit the decentralised apparatus in place, not least in cooperation with the sales laws. I would also strongly encourage you to let go of the belief that more centralized bureaucracy is the way to go to solve public tasks. The proximity of the user and more time to outsourced service production must be the way to go in this area as well. Here's one talk of efficiency improvement. Together with an experimental system of reporting obligations for the surrender of catches for vessels of a certain size, I think this will be a rapid and good measure to improve the state of the industry. Compulsory reporting of catches within a minimum time limit for delivery allows the control authorities to choose to be present during a delivery in order to ensure that everything goes correctly. Such a notification obligation would also have a preventative effect. The premise must be that infringements of the notification obligation and/or the detection of illegalities in the course of controls result in such a severe and immediate reaction that the system is deterrent. With regard to the registration system, the sales teams have a high level of competence. Not taking advantage of that knowledge would be a little rational on the part of the authorities. Therefore, constructive cooperation with the sales laws in this area is encouraged. With 400,000 deliveries per year. however, most years from the smallest fleet, it is important that a take-off be made with the largest ship groups which are not obliged to report today. The control capacity will be limited, almost regardless of the supply of resources. Full control will require a 24-hour continuous presence, and proposals for night closure of reception facilities seem to me to be a poor proposal. The fishing industry requires a high degree of flexibility in dealing with this important catch. Finally, I would like to commend the Council of State for having done a good job in this matter so far, and I expect follow-up in the various areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e565	In my presentation, I have sought to give a complete picture of the efforts being made today to control the extraction of fish and catch from the sea, what we know about the extent of illegalities in terms of quota circumventions, and how I will bring this obscurity to life as far as possible. I was aware that Norway, as a significant fishing nation, with fishing in huge sea areas and with many landings spread over a long-range coast, faces ongoing challenges in getting effective resource control. So even though, on an international scale, we are in the top level of the effort to control what is being taken up by the sea, the knowledge we have about the illegalities suggests that additional force must be put in place. It is not possible to have certain facts about what rules are being broken or the extent to which quota circumventions actually have. What we know, however, suggests that we are facing a worrying situation, how significant quantities of fish are not included in the resource accounting or channelled through orderly trading conditions. This could thus undermine a significant prerequisite for sustainable resource management. We are at risk of having a fishing industry characterised by mistrust and lack of professional pride. We are facing serious forms of environmental crime and economic crime. I am convinced that the vast majority of operators in the fishing industry are serious and want to make a positive contribution to the fisheries management and the professional community. However, some people will always see themselves profited from breaking laws and regulations. Different modes of operation on the sea and on land indicate that forms and levels of illegality vary. However, it is important for me that everyone in the fishing industry takes responsibility for supporting sustainable management. Without the individual’s understanding of why it is important to have a controlled and orderly resource outsourcing – and then to act – we will not be able to overcome the illegalities. As I said, it is difficult to say something exactly about the extent of the illegalities. However, the Directorate of Fisheries has carried out some calculations that indicate that quota circumvention is of significant value – a scale that we cannot live with and that we must do something active, beyond the usual response forms, in order to overcome. The main focus must be on measures to address the illegalities. I'm not going to go too much in detail here since Stortinget has got this information through the account itself, but there are some things that I'm still going to draw up: The control effort must be strengthened, and I have explained to what extent. It is also very important to make the most of the overall control resources and emphasis will be placed on cooperation and effectiveness between the various control bodies. Penalties and administrative responses to infringements need to be intensified. We have put in place administrative responses both to the sea and to the land, actions that naturally have triggered responses when the measures have resulted in temporary cessation of operations with the consequences for all those directly or indirectly affected. I want to continue these responses, and I believe that they will contribute to the change in attitude needed by a number of industry actors. In addition, this week the Government is promoting a proposal for the Stortinget on, inter alia, stricter penalties in the Seawater Fisheries Act and the Raw Fish Act. This underlines the seriousness of the kind of illegalities we are talking about here. Of course, it is regrettable that stricter penalties are needed, but this is therefore a consequence of the reality we have to deal with. Furthermore, police and prosecution authorities need to give increased priority to issues related to infringements of fisheries legislation. It is important for both the authorities and the economic operators that decisions be taken in the cases within a reasonable time after the situation has been revealed. The regulatory framework shall be designed to ensure sustainable management, while being as simple as possible, so that fishing can be carried out in a rational and sound manner. I'm not going to deny that we have a complicated code. This was also the background to my invitation to a seminar on regulatory simplification. As a follow-up to the seminar, the Directorate for Fisheries and Trade Organisations will develop concrete proposals for regulatory improvements. I would also like to point out that assessing simplifications and regulatory improvements is a continuous process that is ongoing both among business organisations and in the administration. But no matter what rules we have to figure out, it's a fact that someone will challenge the law. And here we are again on attitudes and ethics in the industry. We cannot help but assume the responsibility of the individual business operator for sustainable management. And then understanding why we have to have rules that regulate the industry is necessary. Information and awareness-raising activities are keywords. Finally, I would like to stress my respect for the industry's proud practitioners. However, the sum of small and large crimes is such that we have to take a vow in common in order to bring the illegalities to life. Through cooperation between the authorities and business organisations, I believe that we should be able to work constructively and purposefully, so that confidence in the industry is restored. I would like to say in this regard that I think it is natural that we commend those who have had the courage to put this on the agenda. This has been necessary, and it has to be followed up. We must bring this to life. We need to restore confidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e599	Today we are dealing with an important issue for the Norwegian fishing industry. The statement by the Minister of Fisheries on this matter will characterize me as a death sentence on the administration that is in force today, and especially on his own administration and in so far as legislation is concerned. The fishermen and the Norwegian Fisheries Team have been particularly aware of these developments. The Norwegian Fisheries Team took the initiative of a conference on 10 and 11 February 2000. The current Minister for Fisheries Lars Peder Breck attended that conference. I shall take the liberty of quoting a little from what he said, which I quite agree with: ‘It must be right to do the right thing. To a large extent, this is a question of morality. We must dare to talk about that. For some it is that, for moral reasons, they will in any case follow a rule. For others, they'll be more likely to comply with some rules more than other rules. However, ensuring the highest level of voluntary compliance is a complex issue. A lot goes into the process – the one who has been involved in designing a code will be more likely to act in accordance with the rules. A lot is also about how to look at the content of what is being determined. A strong example of this came in a letter to the ministry not long ago. Among other things, it said:‘We are faced with an administrative decision that lacks both factual reasons and democratic legitimacy. In other words, it is a purely power abuse.’ And on the other hand, "We cannot recommend () compliance with regulations that are directly destructive. Faced with a regulatory structure lacking legitimacy,... [[send]] I ask the Minister for Fisheries what has been done with the work that was started in the department – which was there when he took over. In my opinion and as far as I know, everything was thrown overboard. We have a fisheries legislation today that lacks legitimacy in the fishing community. We have authority laws that give an opportunity to be both legislative, executive and judicial in one operation. It is left to the discretion of the administration on the spot to decide what is wrong, and what is right. If a fisherman takes a bag of fish and evaluates it to weigh 1,200 kg, and the Coast Guard comes and says it's only 800 kg, it's 20 pst. in difference, and thus there is a basis for bringing the man on land, arresting him, throwing him into smooth cell if necessary – if you find it too good. It is clear that people do not accept such legislation. They do not accept being treated as criminals worse than drug traffickers. It is quite obvious that this is wrong. Then it's not going to work in a box. Yarn is put in the sea to get the sea, but the yarns fly full of cod – or vice versa. The line is put into the sea to get shelter, and it flies full of cod. You're a perpetrator when you drag the utility, but you're law-abiding when you set the utility. I have to go back a little bit to how it works with this legislation. When a fisherman tries to bring his case before the court, he encounters the problem that Stortinget has authorised the ministry to be both legislative, executive and judicial. When the judge is to judge the case, he is prevented or unwilling to do so, for if he is to judge for the benefit of the fisherman, he must, in effect, judge the Stortinget. And that's an impossibility. No one in the fishing industry is interested in the eradication of either one or the other. The debate that has taken place has, in fact, made the entire fishing industry a criminal offence. That's far from the case. I would say that most people do their utmost to follow the difficult laws and rules, which change – I had almost said from day to day. So that's not where the problem lies. But it's clearly a question of morality and ethics. When the representative Hedstrøm and, to the extent that the representative Kristiansen representing the two right parties are talking about capacity reduction, they don't understand what the problem is. We've seen this in the ring-fleet, and we have it in the jet-fleet. You can have two ring nets that cost $10 million. And then you build one that might cost 120 million. kr. It must be obvious that a boat will cost 120 million. kr requires more resources than two to 20 million. kr – more fishing is required to pay the interest and instalments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e631	The Minister for Fisheries stated in his statement that when there are large gaps in our administration, the system could collapse. Marine resources are renewable but not exhaustive. It's important to clarify. Unregistered stock taxation weakens the scientific basis for stock assessments, which in turn affects quota determinations. No one can do that. Everyone agrees that fisheries and aquaculture can become our most important and most important export article when gas and oil extraction is expected to decrease in the coming years. But then we must not put ourselves in such a position that our reputation as a seafood producer and responsible partner in the international administration of the seas is weakened. I agree with the five main steps taken by the Government in combating the so-called fish fraud. One of these steps is that criminal reactions need to be intensified, as several speakers have been before me. Nevertheless, simplification of legislation and intensified control are said to be the right way to go. It is reassuring to confirm that monitoring and control of fishing is the most important and priority task of the Coast Guard. It is also positive that the Government will strengthen the Directorate-General for Fisheries’ staff by 49 persons and that the increase in staff is earmarked for the control function. This may be needed when observing the wealth of ideas developed in the circumvention of the legislation. Illegal activities include illegal gear, fishing in closed areas, changing the name, weight or length of the fish, the recording of wrong quantities by fishermen and purchasers, the manipulation of instruments, and the fact that entire catches are not organised. It's quite alarming that the quota jack can be in a magnitude up to 20 pst. of the recorded catch. It is important to have an effective interaction between the Directorate of Fisheries, the Coast Guard and the Sales Act and to establish a common data collection and analysis unit to assist current control units. It is essential that criminal responses and administrative responses are intensified. Police and prosecution authorities need to give increased priority to these types of cases, and the time taken to deal with them has to go down. In particular, it is important that infringements of fisheries legislation provide a consistent response pattern. With as much fracture as up to 20 pst. by recorded catches, the temporary or permanent entitlement of a vessel to fish must be withdrawn to a much greater extent than at present. The same must apply to fish buyers. Only two vessels and one company per year. the current date has been suspended. It seems little compared to the extensive fish fraud that has been revealed. Similarly, undue cheating should increasingly lead to a police report. But criminal reactions are not an end in themselves. It is to hope that it will only be deterrent, because what we need is a great and healthy industry as a basis for growth in the export industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e646	The fish fraud is nothing new. The knowledge of it has been present for years, but it is important that it is put in focus now. And the Fisheries Minister's statement is a signal that the Government is now planning to take the problem seriously. When I say that this is not a new phenomenon, I would like to point out that already in August 1997 there was a fishing candidate task written by Torstein Leon Hansen at Norway's fishing high school at the University of Tromsø, where it was just cheating in the fishing industry. I remember very well that, among other things, was a theme of the 1997 Finnmark election campaign, and the then government of Jagland – with fisheries minister Schjøtt-Pedersen – rejected this. Thus, this has been denied at a time when it proposes reports on it and could have taken action. It was then wrapped up in a rather hopeless discussion about the quality of the document itself in relation to a doctoral thesis, instead of going behind what was available here, and looking at the realities of it. While it is good to finally wake up to grips with the widespread fraud that has been taking place for a number of years, there is reason to ask questions about the alertness of alternate fisheries ministers and alternate governments about the fraud that has been reported, at least four years ago and perhaps even further back. We need to ensure sustainable management of fisheries resources. The allowances must be long-term. There is pressure from the industry to tighten the limits of increased allowances. And when, in addition, hidden catch numbers are operated, either through black rewriting of the species or illegal discarding, it is, of course, totally unacceptable, and it is a threat to fisheries management. Illegal discarding and black marketing are criminal. But there are also some by-catch rules that are difficult to live by. These may need to be revised in the light of the fact that their follow-up is very difficult. If by-catch rules are impracticable, they help undermine respect for the law. Long-term management is important, sustainability must be at the heart of it. If there is no guarantee of sustainability in development, it goes beyond those who are legally operating as well as those who are operating illegally. Of course, it is particularly problematic that those who operate within the rules are so severely affected by the illegalities of others. That's why it's important to get control of the industry as a whole. The presentation by the Minister of Fisheries — and proposals for other measures — may seem reasonably positive. However, there is one minus for it, and that is that the Coast Guard should be maintained at the level we have today. In the view of the SV, the Coast Guard should be significantly strengthened, as we have also proposed in the past, inter alia. in the form of 30 new inspectorates, the obligation to notify catches and similar measures should apply. The criminal reaction may be that people who are taken for serious resource crime may be thrown out of the industry. Then I have to conclude by saying that while you get a statement about what is now revealed, and the Minister for Fisheries describes what is going on in the future, there is reason to raise questions by having had such clear signals for so long. I remember that Reidar Johansen, who was in charge of the SV from Finnmark for two periods before me, repeatedly raised questions about fish fraud and referred to the data at the time. It was rejected, also by the then fisheries minister Karl-Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen. In this respect, I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries what is the reason why, based on previous data, this has not been taken seriously until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e661	To a large extent, I would like to say that the measures proposed by the Minister are all right – so far. It will be exciting to look at the follow-up to the revised national budget and the state budget. But I miss the follow-up to the claim that came from the industry, of one inspector per. Rays. The Trolls stand for 80 pst. of cod harvesting, and if we are to have control and overview of what is happening to this important resource, these inspectors must be in place. I also miss a deeper explanation of what causes fish fraud and what causes the fisheries crisis. We now see that a crisis in cod fishing is a fact. We have to assume that in 2004 we have serious problems. What I think it should focus more on in the further work is the tax pattern. It has to get more in focus. The last ten years of fisheries policy must be under review. Last year's fisheries policy has largely failed. We haven't succeeded, and we can't just blame fish fraud and immorality. There'll be a wrong debate. I would recommend that, when discussing this, we look carefully at what is the cause of the fisheries crisis, whether it is fish fraud or whether it is the country's own tax model that has not been successful, because it is actually here that we are at risk of fixing the bakery for for forging. We also need to look at the fishing policy engines that have been out of play in the last ten years. If anyone thinks that the fisheries policy has been successful in the last ten years by the fact that 5 000 fishermen have been banned from fishing with cod, they have to believe so, but I believe that we have largely failed to manage resources in terms of creating values in Coast Norway. Today, sark fishing on the Finnmark coast is stopped to save resources. I have to say that I am strongly responding to what has happened today, precisely in the light of the debate we have in Stortinget. Shark fishermen fish on the quota for boats under 28 meters, even where it is autoline, and trawls get too much quota. That's my claim, and that's the real reason why the shark fishermen are shut out today, not that they're the ones who pay the build-up of the cod stock. In the group under 28 meters they lose small again, and it happens because the minister is now shutting out that fleet. The approach taken by the Minister for Fisheries is a new approach that is demoralising to the fishing industry. 3,000 jacks are being hunted home. The big game of managing this in a proper way we have to discuss further. We can no longer play rule with quota fixing, we must follow the proposals of the researchers. We also need to make sure that the practitioners who, at the time we build up the resources, do not have income, also survive it. It is not the small ones who have to pay for this. And the discussion goes on total quotas and distribution between the different groups. I hope in the further work that we get into the important discussion, because for many years I feel like I've been talking to those who are in the industry, that it's a frustration and a remorse, and often I get a hearing statement: if I can't legally run, I quit. It is an abstinence to the system, but also an abstinence to the way it is practiced – and that abstinence is great. We have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e685	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e688	The Minister for Fisheries has put a good document on the table to deal with the problems described in the same document. However, I would like to start by saying that most fishermen are law-abiding professionals, but as in all other industries there are some black sheep. And those are the ones that destroy the great majority. There's a lot of ways to drive control. It can happen at sea, it can happen at berth, it can happen at border control, and it can happen during transportation, so you can check that what's in the consignment note is in line with what's really in the cargo. It is also true that there are many ways to react when there are some who commit illegalities. This can be done by withdrawals, by exclusion from fishing, etc., and it can be done by seizing tools, as is known from other circumstances. But it must not be that the fisherman becomes a lawless fisherman. Others have been involved in the same thing. You can't get so excited that with a wide pen, you can also hit those who may be completely innocent in some way. It is important to have driving rules. I think you can compare with the Road Traffic Act. The conditions on the roads would be much worse if you hadn't had speed limits and things like that, and the chance of getting caught is what probably makes you behave properly on the roads. That's the way it's going to be at sea if it turns out that the chance of being taken is great, and if it turns out that when you do something, it turns out. It is often claimed that one should take the greatest sins. In that respect, I agree with that, but my experience suggests that it may be the most difficult. Because at the same time, when you claim that the rules you're going to follow, the rules that are drawn from the directorate and department, are difficult, I think it's the way to avoid the rules to a large extent, it's not because the rules are difficult, but it's because you've got into them and you know how to avoid the rules and get away with it. And to do that, you also have to know the rules. There have been other by-catch regulations. It is clear that sometimes it is very difficult to stay within such a code when one is not sure what a sheep does when one puts it into the sea. That is why I think it is important to strengthen the regional offices that are located in the areas where there is the greatest fishing activity and where resources are available. A bigger bureaucracy that will end up in Bergen is not really helping to make things better, and I don't think that's what you're thinking. But it's important that the control becomes as close as possible to the actors, and that it is managed by those who are in the middle of it, i.e. the regional offices. The Minister of Fisheries has taken good care of the problems, and I expect him to get the necessary means to implement them. In order for Norwegian fishing industry to have a good reputation, it is important to take them as cheaters, but it is also important to establish that Norwegian fishing industry is much better than its reputation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e703	It was basically the representative of Ballo who got me to catch the word, when he asked why you haven't reacted until as long as you've known that it's been fishing jacks – if you're going to use that term. I want to be very reserved when it comes to saying that you have not responded, because you have responded. Fishing has been under constant control, and new conditions have always been discovered. And the control that, after all, has been good enough to reveal an increasing scale. When you discover such an extent, the time has come for a new action, because you have gained new knowledge. I have over a long time heard the same rumors and have in some way thought that the control apparatus has nevertheless been reasonably sized in relation to the scope. Now we know it's not like that, and then we're going to react. So I'd like to say a couple of things about what Steinar Bastesen brings up, which is that you're almost law-abiding when you set up tools, and not law-abiding when you pick them up. Well, that's not going to be very precise. It's actually that it's allowed to be wrong about what nature gives you when a set of gears. But what's not allowed is to try to hide that it's a sheep out of the sea, it's something other than what's real. Then there will be no lawfulness. It's even so that you have an opportunity to keep up to 20 pst. of this to be sure to get this on land. Then I would also like to say to Randi Karlstrøm that there is a very serious situation we are in when we have found that from the weekend there will no longer be a quota basis for continuing this year's cod fishing. But it's not because we've made some redeployments, it's actually because we've had an extremely good fish. We've had a good time, and we have a very good availability. Not all the boats with the right to participate in this fishing are now cut off. There are a lot of people who have taken their allowances, with very good availability and very good price. And I'd like to say last year we did a 100 pst. equal scheme, with a volume that lasted until Christmas. And everyone was happy. But that we have to take this grip now – because we have to have a responsible relationship with the quotas set – I stand for it. Then I would also say that the numbers with which Karlstrøm operates in terms of the number of trawls do not cover at least the Norwegians. They take approx. 30-35 pst. the allowance, depending on the size of the total quota.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e721	There are several speakers who have said that we need an effective control regime and strong sanctions. There are also a number of people who have said that in any case this is about attitudes and ethics in order to reverse developments. I also agree with those who have such views. Attitudes and ethics are the responsibility of the individual nutritionist, and my claim is that most professionals have the right basic attitude, and they feel uncomfortable when fishing foxes are discovered. But here, as in many other areas, it's the few that destroy the many. The reason I took the floor is that I wanted to challenge the Council of State in one area, and that is that sometimes there is a rumor about night deliveries to avoid control. In cases where night deliveries may appear to be made in order to conceal circumvention of the legislation, provision should be made for the possibility of prohibiting such deliveries in periods and in special places. On the left, we would like to welcome such a basis in the Saltwater Fishing Act. I would also like to point out in this connection that the need for night-time closure may be less if we are to have an improved reporting system for catches. But my question to the Council of State is: how does the Council of State view and want the Council of State to provide a basis for banning deliveries in periods and special places when there seems to be a basis for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e730	When it comes to reducing the total quantity to be taken out, I'm not opposed to it, but I'm probably a little critical of the way this is done, because as I understand it, the jet fleet has not stopped its take-off. What is the reality is that the smallest fleet, boats less than 28 m, who have prepared to do fishing for Easter and beyond in May, is suddenly excluded. It is a random management that I understand very well that the fishermen react with disgust, when there are also other groups who get to continue fishing. I don't understand that this is the right way to do it. I think the Minister for Fisheries is all involved in reducing the total quantity, but it should have been done when the quotas were set, so that the reduction hit everyone inside that management model. Another point that I would also like to make is that in order to improve the management of fisheries resources, we should also try decentralised management and find new management models. I'm very open that we're trying. And from Finnmark's point of view, I can say that we have more people in the Sameting, who also want such experiments to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e740	As for the question from the representative of Kongshaug about this with night deliveries, I have, like him, heard that there has been a discussion about this may be an appropriate way to bring some of the illegalities to life. I think in some situations it might be interesting to do that, for example. if this arises as a general problem over time. But then we already have permission to do that if we want to. The thing is, this kind of issue is very sporadic. It's kind of a catch or some arrangement you hear about in retrospect, that there's a rumor that it was like this. To take such things, one must have a relatively massive effort, and then it will, I think, go beyond what is necessary flexibility that law-abiding nutritionists must have in the pursuit of their profession. With regard to this that has happened to cod fishing, which the representative Karlstrøm was in on, it is not that we have made any cuts in the quotas. The allowance set for this group, which was agreed by all, has now been taken. It is true that the trawler fleet has not been stopped in this fishing, because they have allocated their quantity to the number of boats, and they have the opportunity to dispose of this beyond the year as they wish. As far as coastal fishing fleets are concerned, since this type of regulation has been introduced, it has been practised to distribute a larger quantity than is actually available, because there is experience that a number of boats do not take their quotas. To the extent that there has been criticism of this system in the past, there has been a lack of courage in making assessments and distributing a larger quantity. This has meant that the quantity that could have been taken in winter, in a careful manner, will be redistributed in the autumn, and then all of these who thought they could take this in the winter feel that this is going to be unfair. This year has been special. It is not possible to complain that the weather has been too good, but it is enough that good weather and good availability have made us this year have had an exceptionally good fishing for cod, especially for the smallest vessels.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e749	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2890]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e763	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2890]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e775	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time on speeches by the main speakers from each political group and from members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e782	Fortunately, we can agree on many of the development policy objectives outlined by the Minister for Development. It is a strength for the Norwegian contribution to the development of the world's poorest countries that we have such a consensus. The Minister for Development made four plans for development policy: cooperation on the aid well managed sets of quality requirements for ourselves and for developing countries to make the necessary priorities I think these are good, solid basics to lay the foundation for good assistance work. Hilde Frafjord Johnson will come in a later article into more detail on some of these themes. But we also need to debate the differences, because they also exist. The Minister for Development presented a significant challenge when she referred in her presentation to the President of the World Bank, who strongly deplores the decline in the assistance of the rich countries in the 1990s. Poor countries that reformed their governance and economies in line with the recommendations of the World Bank and donor countries were rewarded with less, no more assistance. It is not difficult to understand the frustrations in the recipient countries, because it gives a completely wrong signal. The Minister for Development agreed to this challenge, and that is a good starting point. But now something more is needed, that is action. From the well-known journal Development Today, Norway is among the countries that reduced their aid most in the previous year — a decrease of 9.6 p.m. We were passed both by Sweden and the Netherlands and are now in fourth place with 0.80 pst. of GNI for assistance. It's relatively eye-catching. We haven't been that low in years. So if we had a long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, long, Of course, some of the explanation is the significant Norwegian growth in GNI through increased oil prices. Although the central government provided a budget that, after the preconditions, was to keep the same level, i.e. 0.89 p.p., this did not hold up. I agree, for my part, that we should focus even more on the quality of Norwegian aid, as the Minister for Development also said. There have also been many other speakers from several parties who have expressed the same thing. Gradually, you might get the impression that it is kind of not a good idea to take up the volume debate when it comes to assistance. Rather, let's talk about quality, device and structure. Yes, this is an important debate. I agree, but we must also take seriously that we cannot keep pace so that the goal set for the share of aid to the world's poorest country can be achieved. Now it was the central government that laid the foundation for the 2000 budget. So I'm not going to hand out one-sided criticism either to the Government or to the Minister of Development for this relationship. Here we have both an independent and a common responsibility for the situation that has arisen. But both the centre parties and the Workers' Party have taken on an obligation to bring the aid up to 1 pst. of GNI. Now it's clear that this is going to be a huge challenge, because it's going in the wrong direction. We are increasing our own wealth, but reducing the share of GNI in aid to the poorest countries instead of increasing it, as we promised. I would therefore like to challenge the Minister for Development to respond to what strategy she is now looking for in order to re-establish what we have done. We actually have some tools that we can use, if we want to. Poverty keeps half of humanity in links. On the other hand, our own petroleum fund is growing ever stronger. By the end of 2001, it will be close to NOK 600 billion. As part of the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centres last winter, we agreed to set up a development fund with earmarked funds from the petroleum fund for poverty reduction or for specific purposes for developing countries. This has to be in addition to the ordinary resources that are allocated, and can be used to create greater predictability and to help bring forward the increase that we have set ourselves as a common goal. I said in the budget debate last year that I hoped that this fund could be established by the presentation of the revised national budget this year. I have to admit that the Minister for Development got this out in a very defensive way in his presentation by briefly mentioning ‘The government is also assessing the possibility of setting up a development fund’. I expected something more than this, and I would also like to ask here the Council of State whether the development fund will now be presented by the Government as a reality already in the government budget for the autumn, according to the guidelines that we agreed in the budget agreement. I would remind you that aid is a small source of pressure on the Norwegian economy. We know that the petroleum fund is being filled up faster than a revised national budget has managed to catch up. It should therefore be possible to use 1 pst. by the fund to set aside for a purpose which both confirms global solidarity, does not affect other good purposes of the State budget and also, in my view, has a soothing effect on the public economy. In successive replenishments, as we have now done with the research fund, the return of this fund can be a valuable aid to the Minister of Development and the bulk of the population to achieve the agreed objectives. I hope that the Council of State can now give a more concrete answer than she gave in the statement. The funding of different business activities has been re-established. NORAD’s business finance has been cut down and replaced by NORFUND’s portfolio. I would like to admit that this conversion was one of the most difficult decisions to make during the budgetary procedure last year. The Foreign Affairs Committee even had its own hearing with both the Council of State and the Director of NORFUND. Among other things, the question of a lower limit on the size of business projects was raised. We were convinced that the conversion was the right move for a more efficient management of business projects in Norwegian co-operation countries. I record that according to the Minister of Development, NORFUND’s international cooperation has enabled ‘a broad and active participation in the management of local investment funds’. This is both positive and joyous. At the same time, there is still some uncertainty about how the new regime will turn out, as there are still requests from business representatives of the Foreign Affairs Committee who wish to make a positive effort in the aid countries but who claim that they are being rejected or referred to other bodies when they present small scale projects that are well-founded and well-founded. Of course, the last thing is completely impossible for us on Stortinget to measure, but there is something in the communication between the business community and NORFUND that scurries and that needs to be improved. Of course, both equity, security and arrangements need to be made for the various projects, but small scale projects can also prove useful and effective in assisting them. I hope, therefore, that it will be possible to find ways to guide and communicate, which can still provide the necessary incentives to produce good projects – including the smaller ones – and which create fewer frustrations in the system than today. I have received several reactions from different teams regarding Ambassador Ingunn Klepsvik's contact to the Nicaraguan authorities in the form of letters, together with fellow signatories from Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Germany, the Netherlands and Switzerland. Reportedly, Norway has threatened to withhold some of the 100 million. Dr who is currently receiving assistance to Nicaragua – due to changes in the country’s family policy. I would like to ask the Minister for Development to comment on these claims. We agree that there should be requirements for the follow-up of fundamental human rights in the countries receiving Norwegian assistance. At the same time, we should be very careful to integrate Norwegian assistance into the domestic policy and priorities of the recipient countries. According to Nicaraguan sources, Norway has been subjected to an unacceptable economic pressure in this country, linked to conditions that are perceived as interference in internal affairs. I hope the Minister for Development can clarify this. Then I would also ask the Minister for Development to respond to what is now being done to follow up the development projects of the disabled as a priority group in the aid, especially as regards the proportion of people with disabilities, as agreed in the budget. Finally, a prerequisite for a good board is an opposition that is allowed to do its job, well-functioning parties and competent and up-to-date media. The previous government therefore launched an initiative for the development of democracy and contacted the political parties and Norwegian media actors in order to exploit them as partners in the work. This work was not completed. The Council of State said in its statement that she wanted to involve the political parties in development cooperation on the Great Britain, and that is good! A model for such cooperation with the parties was recently launched in the Netherlands. That is the background to the proposal that the Christian People's Party is promoting today, and which, for our part, we hope, can bring together a majority in the European Parliament today. I am therefore addressing this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e827	It's going to be line change. Einar Steensnæs has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e832	The representative of Steensnæs began by expressing the broad scope of aid policy in this Chamber. I would like to stress that, too, we have a separate and shared responsibility to continue it. However, I am somewhat surprised that he is now calling for action. This with assistance is a little bit strange. The Norwegian Minister of Development therefore ranks among the world's most powerful women, and she is not the first Minister of Development to do so. It contrasts with the political attention given to aid policy, but it does underline that it is action. Then, to put it mildly, I'm surprised at what Steensnæs brings up in connection with Nicaragua. Does Steensnæs now think that we should not make political demands on so-called internal affairs, and will this also apply to a country such as Zimbabwe? Then the Christian People's Party and Steensnæs have promoted a proposal – which has now been raised – to set up an Institute for the Development of Democracy to support the contribution of political parties to aid. The Minister for Development said in his statement that he wanted to ‘take the political parties of the Storting more into the development work’, and here too, as far as I can remember, the Minister for Development and the current government have clearly to break a barrier that the central government has not succeeded in. There will, of course, be different models that need to be explored before the Government can come back to a more concrete proposal on how to involve political parties. Wouldn't it be wrong to take a very concrete position in this room now? I do not think we disagree on this, so I would already like to signal in this line that I would like to ask that this proposal, if necessary, be transformed into a transmission proposal. We do not disagree on how to deal with this, at least we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e843	I welcome the support for the proposal that has been presented, and I also look forward with interest to the intervention of the Minister for Development. What we're interested in is that something is happening. And this is an important suggestion. Yes, I am calling for action from the Minister for Development – I allow it! Especially when she is ranked as one of the world's most powerful women, I would recommend the Minister of Development to use this power to come up with measures that can make us up-to-date with the objective that both the Workers' Party and the Centre parties have agreed on. We can't do it in the annual budgets without delay – we know what a strain it is, we've been in government ourselves and we've been in that fight. I think the Minister for Development deserves all praise for the budget that is for the current year, where she actually managed to get a significant increase. I've said that before, and I like to repeat it. But it turned out that that's not enough. There is a connection between our oil wealth and the problems developing countries are struggling with, because they are net importers of the oil that we make good money on. Therefore, there should also be a link between what we set aside for the petroleum fund and what we give of the same fund to the world's poorest. Then I would strongly warn against comparing the situation in Zimbabwe and Nicaragua with the two cases where Norwegian development aid has been affected. The situation in Zimbabwe was full of fundamental human rights and good governance. There, our government was given full support to tighten up and stop development aid. The situation in Nicaragua is, in my view, different in political opinions, but in no way does it have the character of a violation of fundamental human rights, as in Zimbabwe. So here, if I'm going to allow myself a Western expression, you should definitely separate the string and the bar.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e852	I welcome what Steensnæs said about political parties and the proposal that is on the table, and expect us to come back to it. I feel a need to stress again that the Norwegian Minister for Development, just as the previous Minister for Development and the former, is really demonstrating and has acted in the international community, both in various UN organisations and in other international organisations. Norway really gets praise wherever we get into the world. Most of us who are occasionally out there record how we get credit for just the action that Norway shows in terms of assistance. That's what Nicaragua is, that's what Nicaragua is. it does not apply as much to Nicaragua as to principles. If it is that not all human rights violations count for Christian People's Party in terms of assistance to some countries, I think it is right to know it from this pulpit. I would also like to know exactly what the Christian People's Party is now responding to in relation to what Norway has taken the initiative in the case of Nicaragua. What part of the family policy does the Christian People's Party disagree with regarding the Norwegian initiative? And once again, is it so that there are different kinds of violations of human rights? Does not everyone count equally, if we are to react in relation to holding back assistance or being more restrained in relation to the main cooperation countries and in other forms of cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e861	Back to this with the power of action: it's about the fact that once the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties could agree that this was interesting, I find it difficult to understand what kind of investigation remains until the presentation of the budget is so complicated that this cannot be presented under the revised national budget. In my view, it's actually just a matter of willingness to implement this. I can neither see the socio-economic, socio-economic nor formal problems associated with this, and am amazed that such a powerful development minister needs a summer vacation to conclude. When it comes to Nicaragua, it's not that much of my opinion about what's in family policy. Here is the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party on the internal policy collision course, and we live with that. We may also have different views about Nicaraguan family policy, that the Christian People's Party is not simply behind it. That's not what this is about. It is just a question of what is in a way the threshold for a person to signal that a person is withdrawing funds that have been promised. We have clearly agreed with the Storting that fundamental fundamental human rights are part of the prerequisites that must be taken into account. The same is good governance, anti-corruption, etc. This is about, as far as I have understood the press and my sources, a domestic policy relationship that concerns family policy. I do not wish to endorse the family policy that is being pursued in any way, but my request was to have the Minister of Development's assessment of the ambassador's letter signature, whether it is in line with the guidelines for Norwegian development policy, and whether the rise in internal affairs has been properly maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e868	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e871	Let me start with that Council of State in its presentation defined as the agreed development goal of the world society: in 2015, the share of the poor in the world will be halved. To acknowledge that the global framework conditions for development have changed dramatically in a few decades. The world has become smaller, including due to cross-border trade and contacts. With globalised markets and free capital movements, economic instability will have consequences elsewhere. Poverty and pollution threaten the basis of life. War, conflict and terrorism characterize millions of lives, and the number of refugees is increasing, not least in Africa. International crime and Mafia activities challenge national legal societies. The media revolution allows changes in trends, culture and lifestyles around the world. That means that products can be produced anywhere, with resources from anywhere, by a company located anywhere, to a quality we find anywhere, then to be sold anywhere. Our challenge now is driving rules in the international trade regime and in relation to controlling international capital. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, work has begun on a staggering notification of such driving rules. As the Minister for Development stressed in his presentation, in our policy vis-à-vis developing countries, it is important to look at assistance, trade, debt and investment in the context, as part of an overall development strategy for each country. Within the international trade regime, it is important, in my view, that part of the driving rules also consists of compensation schemes for the poorest countries and for training and transfer of competences. This year, approx. a quarter of the earth's population in extreme poverty. The poverty is feminized. We've heard this before. Yet, two thirds of the world's poor are women. Poverty reduction and control require the development of agriculture, business, small industry, crafts, but also of the public sector, well-being, education and health. Overcoming poverty also depends on so-called ‘good governance’. As the Minister for Development stressed in the statement, ‘aid has little positive effect in countries with poor governance’. In our priority co-operation countries – or main co-operation countries, which are gradually reintroduced as a concept – we expect the responsible authorities to have a clear objective of fair distribution, democracy, combating corruption, responsible resource management and equality. And I'll show you the line change after the previous speech. Zimbabwe was closed last year as a priority cooperation country. Unfortunately, the media picture does not suggest that the situation has changed — on the contrary. The newspaper's report last Sunday about him as, among other things, Hitler's first name, with the surname Hunzvi, the leader of the so-called war veterans and Robert Mugabe's Crown Prince, showed that Zimbabwe is now a brutal dictatorship, where the goal, as the report showed, is once and for all to take to heart the volunteer organizations that fund the Movement for Democratic Change. In its presentation, the Sydnes State Council said that the growing-up conditions of children and the rights of children belong to our priority areas of action. She stressed that the poorest country in the world does not even make the minimum investment necessary to ensure the elementary rights of children. This means that children in poor countries are deprived of the right to choose their future, losing their right to development. Perhaps it should be added that the girls are, if possible, even worse off than the boys in such a context. Within the framework of a strategy to ensure children’s growing-up conditions, basic training is ensured for all. At the same time, this is essential for creating societies that are both viable and sustainable. I've been to Pakistan recently. The new government there, with a female Minister of Education, has just presented an ambitious programme of elementary basic education for all, including the law-enforcement of education for all children. The plan also provides for the possibility of part-time training for child workers. That's what many of them know about in Pakistan. There is a dispute about how many children do not receive schooling. The government says 7 million, the local ILO Committee and the local UNICEF staff believe that the figure is about 20 million, and it shows the challenge facing the world community to secure education and other elementary benefits for children. What does Pakistan really recognize? Well, they never come out of poverty, out of mass unemployment with only a small elite who are well-trained and technologically skilled. They recognise the need for more people to participate in knowledge development. Gradually, the elites in the south also recognize that the people must be educated in breadth, they must move on. Here, perhaps, is our hope in education for the children of the world. Norway has significantly increased the number of training projects in the aid following the handling of the North-South notification in June 1996. Unfortunately, too few of these have had a woman’s perspective. However, education and schooling for girls and women are crucial for women’s development and participation. For example, we give priority to: the fight against sexual mutilation in Africa, and have deployed relatively large resources to prevent and combat this type of abuse of small girls. We are totally dependent on public information and knowledge. The same can be said of HIV/AIDS. In general, developments in many countries in the south are not possible without a different status and health and education being ensured. Individual actors in our assistance work need to be seen within a comprehensive Norwegian aid and development strategy. I would also like to refer to the budget debate last autumn. We need to look at the goals we set ourselves, and then figure out which actors can best put into life the individual projects and programmes. In the current year's budget, we increased our assistance through the UNDP and other UN organisations, which was widely agreed on – and has been since June 1996 at the Innst. S. No 229 for 1995-96. And a quarter of the entire aid budget goes to projects directed by voluntary organisations. It shows the extent to which we have different actors. Now, of course, it is not the case that some actors should have a certain share of the funding. We need to channel funds for priority actions through those actors who can best assure us results. I welcome the Government's decision to propose the abolition of customs duties and quotas on all products except weapons from the least developed countries. These are important measures, but they need to be monitored to improve the conditions for export-oriented production in just MUL countries. Both our support for industrial development in MUL countries and investment in the public sector and other infrastructure are a prerequisite for increasing value creation in the world's poorest countries. Here, both Norwegian businesses, organisations and public agencies are key actors in the aid policy. We should also be able to look at the decoupling policy with a little critical eyes. Int. S. No 28 for 1999-2000, the majority stressed that the decoupling of Norwegian aid must be seen in a close context with other countries' decoupling and in close dialogue with stakeholders. We added that pressuring the lowest bid could weaken both the quality of the aid and the soft values of the aid policy. Decoupling leads to increased competition, which does not initially strengthen the enterprises of developing countries. Once agreement has been reached in the OECD Development Committee, we can take a step forward with decoupling, for example. with environmental and employee rights based also on a decoupling strategy. Finally, we also have a Nordic dimension in our aid policy, which we have in our foreign policy, based on the values on which our own society is based – democracy, equality and welfare state, combined with a working working life and a high degree of public participation. From that point of view, we shall make the Sydnes State Council underlined in its presentation, build partnerships between North and South with several partners and allies from the south. This has not always been the case between developed countries and developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e920	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e924	I listened with great interest to the Workers' Party's developmental spokeswoman, who held the main feature of the Workers' Party in this debate today. I have to say that I am quite surprised and surprised that she did not speak in one word about the need, the poverty that lies just outside our Norwegian students. Is this an expression of the Workers' Party's development policy priorities? It cannot be that the relationship with our neighbouring countries – like Russia and other SUS countries, and there are other countries in Europe with very fragile democracies – is that these are only foreign policy issues; it must also be that we have to take responsibility for our neighbouring regions. I got the impression when the Minister for Development made his statement that we are approaching each other on important development policy issues. Therefore, I am surprised that Marit Nybakk does not also promote assistance in our neighbourhoods as a priority in the development policy issues of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e931	I share the opinion of the representative Frost Sterris that we have many unresolved problems and challenges in our neighbourhoods, and that our neighbourhood policy is very important. In – I think it was – the UNDP’s previous report stated that in post-Soviet areas there are now 150 million people living below the poverty line. What characterises these people — unlike in the countries of the south — is that these are people who are well educated and have a high level of culture, they have a welfare state, and they have a human resource that makes it impossible to refer to these countries as developing countries. It'll be, for example. completely wrong to say that Russia is a developing country. Neither is Russia a social democratic society or a capitalist society, as we know it here in the West. Russia is different, and we have to deal with it. My perception of the relationship with Russia and other post-Soviet areas is, first of all, that the relationships we're going to have have have to be on an equivalent basis. We must treat both Russia and other post-Soviet states with respect. At the same time, I am the first to acknowledge that there is also a need for targeted assistance, and that has also taken the consequences of all the way in this Chamber and in the Government. And I would remind you that it was actually the Right, along with the Centre, which in a budget agreement went into order to cut down on the appropriations for Russia. But I think it is important that we focus on business development in parallel, not least trade, on building up institutions and a functioning public apparatus, while at the same time providing assistance to areas where we know that these things can complement each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e945	There was not so much in Marit Nybakk's posts that I disagreed with – on the contrary, I think I agreed with every two words. But of course, there's something you always miss, and since Siri Frost Sterri in a dedicated way asked what she thought was the most important thing in Norwegian assistance, maybe I could take up another relationship that I didn't spend this time in my post, namely the relationship with the volunteer organizations. The Minister for Development used a few words in her presentation, where she, among other things, said: underlined that it is ‘important for voluntary organisations to have predictable framework conditions’. It hasn't been the last year for voluntary organizations. On the contrary, there has been a problem that, as far as I have been able to register in the accounts, in the large auction to get enough money for different valuable Norwegian efforts within the United Nations system, reduced appropriations have been made to the voluntary organisations. If it was part of a conscious policy, there was reason to be concerned. But when the Minister of Development at the same time stresses the valuable efforts of these organisations, it is a little difficult to find coherence in it. I know that Marit Nybakk has been involved in these issues, and I would like to challenge her to say something beautiful, at least something with political substance, about the role she and the Workers' Party believe the voluntary organisations should play in the aid work, and whether she is satisfied with the framework conditions that the voluntary organisations have had in recent times, which have led to the fact that they have had to shut down vaccine programmes when Norway funds new such measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e956	Now the president is excited too.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e959	I will then try to say something about both my relationship with and the view of non-governmental organisations. Let me first stress that I believe the volunteer organisations are doing a great deal of work, both the Norwegian voluntary organisations and the local voluntary organisations that we are using out. The fact that approx. a quarter of Norwegian assistance is channelled through non-governmental organisations, I believe that we not only appreciate the voluntary organisations, but that we also trust that the work they do is useful, yield results and lead to development. Civil society is made up of both voluntary aid organisations and trade unions; political parties have also now entered the field. I believe that the Norwegian development strategy must attract different actors, but that these actors must play together in a common development strategy, which also includes Norwegian business. However, as a political starting point, we set targets for the assistance – I believe that I also said in my introduction – and then we need to find out which actors are best suited to the different projects and programmes. I don't think it should be that some non-governmental organisations should have some so-called share of the development budget. It is also related to the fact that this can vary slightly over time. There are also smaller Norwegian voluntary organisations that are now doing a very good job in some places, and they may have projects that make them want to get more of the development budget. In fact, however, we are the country that uses most non-governmental organisations and that provides the largest share of our assistance through non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e968	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e971	Following the statement by the Minister for Development on 24 April, the Right sent out a press release entitled ‘Rights get an impact on development policy’. Most surprised, but nevertheless satisfied, we were well aware that the government only one week after an interpellation called for what it would do to contribute to increased market access for developing countries, chose to follow the EU and remove all customs restrictions on all goods from the poorest developing countries. The Council's response to me gave us no signal about it; in fact, the answer was very little about the importance of trade in order to contribute to growth and development in developing countries. But now, fortunately, the Government has changed its view: trade is to be an integral part of the entire government's policy towards developing countries, as I called for in the interpellation. I record that the Council of State believes Norway goes beyond the EU in opening up goods from developing countries. That's good. But as EU Development and Assistance Commissioner Poul Nielson said when he was in Norway last month: ‘It is good for some to open up the boundaries of developing countries. But it's far better if a whole continent decides to do it." Nevertheless, the right is satisfied that the Government will implement the scheme for all products from 1 July next year. And the Right is ready to move on. We will build down and eventually wind up customs duties on industrial and agricultural products from more developing countries than the 48 poorest, as our national meeting this weekend also confirmed. In order to introduce the reforms in development policy that the Government intends to implement, the Minister for Development said: ‘...the aid debate must not become a one-sided debate on volume and percentage. The political shift in Norwegian aid has too often been reduced to a question of how much of the gross national income we see is able to spend on aid. We need to be better at debating quality and efficiency.’ Again: I could not agree more! This is precisely what the Right has called for, namely focusing on how Norwegian assistance works. Does it create development? When we set our goals? It's important that we now manage to keep this focus. More money doesn't necessarily make assistance better. Focusing on quality and efficiency, on the other hand, gives us analyses that we can use next time to help more people in a better way. In the suspension of the 1996 aid notification, the Right proposed concentrating Norwegian assistance on fewer countries and regions. We called for the decommissioning of state aid to countries in Central America, and for no regional allocation to be set up for this area. Our reason was that there was a need for more concentrated and effective assistance. We have also called for a clearer prioritisation of assistance to countries showing political will to implement reforms themselves, and thus also the willingness to reduce or phase out cooperation with countries that do not themselves make priorities that benefit the poor population and that do not contribute to positive development. When the Government now announces that it will reduce the number of countries with which Norway can have long-term and extensive cooperation, it is based on similar considerations. We therefore welcome the review of which and how many countries Norway should cooperate with. In the opinion of the Right, such a review should have come a long time ago. Norway has been at the forefront of poverty reduction. But we probably haven't put enough emphasis on what's going on to bring more people out of poverty on a permanent basis. We now have to pay for this by reserving our assistance. The reports produced by researchers Paul Collier and David Dollar on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be an important tool for the work of the Government, in addition to the World Bank reports ‘Assessing Aid’ and ‘Reforming Aid’, which have also been referred to by the Right in previous budgetary proceedings. Among other things, the World Bank reports propose to reduce support to countries to which Norway has made significant contributions over a long period of time, such as Tanzania, Zambia, Mozambique and Nicaragua. At the same time, aid must be able to escalate elsewhere. It is an important advance for development policy that a broad consensus has been reached internationally on key criteria such as democratisation, distribution, human rights and responsible resource management. It is hoped that the right will meet an improved performance reporting procedure for the Storting which has been much more coordinated with the international development objectives. ‘Good governance’ has become an important concept in assessing which countries should be given priority as beneficiaries of Norwegian assistance. In the selection of good governance criteria, the Right believes it is also important to add economic criteria, such as: facilitating investment and private business and contributing to the creation of equivalent framework conditions. Here, however, it is very important that industrialised countries contribute. The aim is to integrate developing countries into the global market economy and to better coordinate efforts towards developing countries, both in the UN and in other forums. EU countries place great emphasis on greater division of labour among themselves. It could be interesting to have got the Minister of Development's views on how Norway can coordinate Norwegian policies more closely with EU countries in the field of development policy. The role of voluntary organisations in development policy is significant and must be safeguarded. There is considerable competence, experience and not least an commitment that has become an important part of our aid tradition. Organisations can also make use of channels and ways of working which are more difficult for government actors to use. But that does not mean that there is no need for reform and review of the business here as well. Where it is possible to obtain more from each aid crown, those possibilities should be exploited. In the right, better coordination with Norwegian development policy leaders is correct, but it should not remove the opportunities for organisations to go on their own. That said, developing measures that strengthen civil society will be an important part of a comprehensive aid policy, especially for countries with fragile democracies. There are several such fragile democracies – including in our own neighbourhood. Moreover, poverty problems in many places do not stand back for what we see in Africa, Asia and Latin America. In Russia, in the SUS and other European countries, the proportion of the population living in extreme poverty has increased in the 1990s, according to the Government’s own long-term programme. There are challenges here – not only for Norwegian foreign policy, but also for Norwegian development policy and for non-governmental organisations. Former Vice-Chancellor of the World Bank Joseph Stiglitz has stated that today almost every Russian lives in poverty. He strongly condemns the IMF and the World Bank's policy towards Russia. He points out that rapid privatisation has worked somewhere, but in Russia we have seen a development in which public monopolies have been replaced by private ones. Released funds have been invested completely elsewhere than in Russian society. The right has long been concerned that Norway could have a role in building a civil society, a commitment to building voluntary humanitarian organisations in Russia. We have received little attention for such a goal in the political environment, but are meeting with greater understanding in non-governmental organisations. If we are to do something like monasteries, we must set clear goals and build stronger relationships with what is needed by humanitarian organisations in Russia. For the time being, Red Cross is the most important actor. Norway has the prerequisites for making such an effort; we have experience, competence and commitment. But the political will is lacking. The Minister for Development struck the Right in Hark with the Progress Party in his statement. It is okay that assistance is policy, but in this case it is reduced to rhetorical tricks. The Minister for Development knows very well that the Right Party and the Advance Party stand miles apart in this area – that is also what she got on her statement all about: Carl I. Hagen chose to go to the frontal attack on the Government, while the Right stated that we are in the process of getting an impact on important demands in development policy. And although this should be superfluous, I think I have to remind myself that the Progress Party put forward proposals to wind up the state aid and reduce the aid budget by NOK 7.2 billion. This is a policy Right in no way can support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1024	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1027	The representative Frost Sterri made a point that one week after an interpellation from the right here in the hall, the matter was clear when it came to imports from the MUL countries, giving the impression that this was the Right that drove through this interpellation. Here in the hall we know how these things really work, and that this interpellation came because you knew that things were going to fall into place. We agree on imports from the MUL countries. What's a little out of place between the Right and maybe most of the other games, is that the Right reduces its aid participation by approx. 20 pst. That means a couple of thousand million dollars that the right is not on. It is said that this will be resumed through imports from the MUL countries. What is our concern is that it is well said yes to imports from the MUL countries, but at the same time it is necessary to continue building up civil structures and education, health, etc. in these countries, otherwise we will end up in a situation where exports from there will not be stable, and export revenue will not benefit the people of the poor countries, but will be able to go into individual pockets. Moreover, if these countries do not have a good governance and a good civil structure, the possibility and the danger of these countries developing into pure transit countries for goods to be exported under very favourable conditions will also be present. If I ask the representative Frost Sterri about the Right view, these billions that they grant less for assistance will be covered by increased exports from these MUL countries from day one.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1036	Let me first say that, of course, the right does not believe that the interpellation I traveled on behalf of our party a week before the Minister for Development made his statement and announced the Government's positions on the liquidation of customs duties for most of the commodities from the MUL countries was decisive. We don't think so at all. But the representative Mr. Engretsen also knows very well that this is not the first time that the Right raised this question in the Stortinget. We have now worked on this through several budgetary settings, so just by going back to the budget setting last autumn, he will find that the Right focused very much on this. I will not deny that, on the contrary, I have given praise to the Council of State for this initiative, which receives clear support from the Right. I have now signaled that we also want to go further, because it is quite obvious that it is important, while from the Norwegian side we have to go in with investments. We need to help build a local business in the poor countries and, of course, also open our markets so that they can sell their goods. I don't think the representative Mr. Engretsen is as naive as he might seem to be with the question he asked at the end, whether this would somehow cover the gap between what the Workers' Party wants to grant in development aid, and what the Right has landed on. I don't think so, because of course this isn't that easy. But I would like to remind you that the Right is also impatient and actually wants to grant more to the neighbourhoods, as part of development aid, and as Mr. So let's think about what he's going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1046	Let me first praise the Right engagement of the poor in our neighbourhoods. It is good that we are reminded of the need to give a handshake to, among other things. Russia. But why on earth should this have to go at the expense of aid to Africa? For me, too, it is difficult to understand how one can have the stomach to fight for the help of the world's poorest and go in for massive tax relief for some of the world's richest. But it gives a ray of hope when I see what harsh outcomes people who one would believe were standing Right closer than me had against the Right Priorities of the Year's budget. As stated on 3 November 2000 by the Ukeavis of industry: ‘We don’t get the point of taking from the weakest and poorest in the world a couple of billions. The right can then work to remove customs duties and other barriers to action that the developing countries will benefit from without compensating for cuts in aid. Against the poor of the world it is gross to give with one hand and take with the other." Can the representative Frost Sterri explain the point with the Right cut proposal? Is it a right-wing principle that we should have a lower aid budget, regardless of the economic situation in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1058	The right has high ambitions in several important policy areas, which emerged not least at the national meeting held by the Right end of the weekend. Let me say to the whole issue of the Right Development Policy: we are not primarily concerned with the principles that are based on the fact that the money is going to be 1 pst. of GNI, whether or not properly applied. We see that this, with the little debate we have had so far today, and with the reports we have received that the level of our assistance last year went down – not necessarily as a result of the lack of resources, but due to other external circumstances – is hopeless as a criterion for whether we are kind and good and want to take on the responsibility that must also be left to us as a nation to take over the poor in other parts of the world. But I think it is strange that our aid policy should focus on all areas of the world other than our own continent. I believe that, as a nation, we also have a responsibility to assist our poor neighbours, not least in North-West Russia. That's why we have chosen to commit ourselves strongly to influence a majority in the Great Britain to include our neighbours in our development aid so that this does not necessarily go at the expense of Africa. What we have said is that we want a better quality of our assistance, we want to get more out of each aid crown. We say that then we have to have concentration, and we have to first of all help where we have the best assumptions to help.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1067	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1070	In our modern democracies built on the market economy, wealth and development are primarily the result of human capacity for innovation and innovation. This also characterises the views of the Progress Party on development aid. We distance ourselves from the egotism of rich countries and the tendency to hypocrisy that is represented when they look at all kinds of passports to prevent poor countries from being free to sell their goods on their markets. Of course, it is gratifying that the Government has now opened up access to MUL countries, but all developing countries should be given access to get out of poverty through an opportunity to live off their own labour and efforts by selling their goods on international markets. We therefore hope that world trade can be liberalised within the framework of the WTO, including in agricultural products in general, in such a way that it benefits the interests of all developing countries. The Progress Party believes that large parts of the U-help have contributed to keeping dictatorial regimes in power and will point out that the countries that have received the most Norwegian aid for a long time have had little or no economic progress. A U.S. government committee said: ‘Despite decades of foreign aid, most of Africa and parts of Latin America, Asia and the Middle East are economically in a worse situation today than they were twenty years ago.’ This must make us wonder if we are doing the right thing. The objective must be to improve the situation of those living in the recipient countries – and when not, what do we do? Although a small number of third world countries have achieved some economic growth, most third world countries have not. U-help has helped create dependence on the recipient countries. There are several reasons why massive transfers of money from countries to developing countries have not given rise to a corresponding increase in wealth. U-help has traditionally been given to governments, which has served as support for central planning, and has been based on a fundamental misconception of what is happening. Many of the developing countries have for years been responsible for a socialist planning economy and socialist thinking, and that is when things go wrong. U-help has financed governments, both authoritarian and democratic, and their own policies have been the main reason for the lack of prosperity. Protectionism, regulation, inflationary monetary policy, price and wage controls, the nationalisation of industry, exchange-rate restrictions, state-driven agricultural sales and restrictions on foreign and domestic investment are some examples of policies that have hampered positive development and that have been able to continue because, among other things, Norway has kept the regimes up. Not only has lack of economic freedom literally kept billions of people in poverty, aid planning has in many ways destroyed the economies of some developing countries. Research by economist Peter Boone of The London School of Economics confirms that assistance to developing countries has not produced desired results. After studying help for more than 95 countries, Boone found that ‘as well as all unhelp goes to consumption, and that unhelp does not increase investment and growth. Nor do the poor benefits of the help measured in relation to improvements in development indicators derive, but the unhelp increases the size of the public sector.’» So it's not the people of the developing world who serve the helpless, but the rulers. It has gradually become clear that as long as economic growth conditions do not exist in the developing world, aid, regardless of its size, will not produce economic growth. Economic growth in poor countries does not depend on outside aid crowns. If not, no country would be able to escape poverty. The claims concerning u-help, inter alia: that developing countries are poor because they lack capital, not only ignore thousands of years of history, they were also killed by recent developments in developing developing countries that showed the accumulation of large debt, rather than development. With the collapse of aid planning and a worldwide shift towards liberalisation, most defenders of traditional unhelp now recognise the importance of markets and the private sector for economic development. However, even assistance to promote market liberalisation can lead to undesirable results. Such assistance relieves the governments of the recipient countries and allows them to postpone, rather than speed up, necessary but politically difficult reforms. In fact, the most effective way to promote important reforms could be the elimination of aid. South Korea and Taiwan started their economic growth period only after the end of aid to these countries. The World Bank has stated: ‘Reforms are more likely to result from a decrease in assistance rather than from an increase in assistance.’ When India was faced with threats of sanctions as a result of nuclear rocketing in 1998, the International Herald Tribune reported that ‘India approved at least fifty foreign investment projects to compensate for the loss of aid from Japan and the United States’ — and that India would take further steps to attract capital. Countries that have gone the farthest in economic reform have done so despite unhelp, not because of it, many claim. As long as it is not possible to have a majority of our policies aimed at gradually abolishing the current forced state aid, the Progress Party will work towards maximising the impact of the aid given. If aid is to have some effect, it must be given to countries that are prepared to contribute themselves by introducing a good economic policy. This means, in practice, that the Progress Party will channel unaid to developing countries actively engaged in free trade, abolish price adjustments and be willing to balance its public budgets, and introduce a State of law based on private property and market economy. The part of the Minister of Aid’s statement that goes on good governance as a criterion goes right in this direction, but then we think that this criterion should be given much greater weight, much faster impact and be a more absolute criterion, rather than a pious wish from Norway – which we are afraid it will be if there are no clear demands behind ‘good governance’, namely the withdrawal of unhelp unless these specified reforms are introduced. In addition, we support the Government when it grants funds to combat HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis and to the vaccination programmes. The Progress Party recognises that some developing countries do not have the prerequisites for servicing their debt. We therefore believe that it needs to be assessed — and we are starting to adjust to this — to gradually cancel debts to these countries, provided that we can achieve international cooperation. These efforts, which many others are also working for, should be carried out. However, democratisation and the introduction of a market economy should be required. The cancellation of the debt should take place in line with the implementation of the requirements. Ideally, debt forgiveness should be linked to the cancellation of assistance. Only in this way will we achieve real economic reforms that will be the basis for economic growth and to get out of the difficult problems of many countries now. The Progress Party will stress that our resistance to unhelp obviously does not include resistance to helping people in distress in the event of natural disasters and acts of war, but we assume that this aid goes directly to the needy. I would also like to point out that during budgetary discussions, the Progress Party has made proposals to increase the appropriations allocated to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, and we believe that in this area more can be done through an apparatus for the United Nations rather than trying to solve these problems to a large extent individually by each country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1124	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1127	I listened with interest to Carl I. Hagen. There was a lot where I didn't seem to be related, but at the same time it was perhaps one of the most interesting speeches on development policy I've heard from the Progress Party from this pulpit in the debates we've had in recent years. But there's something strange about the Progress Party. In principle, they are against development aid, but if a representative of the Progress Party goes to a country and discovers that there is a need, and there is a need for money for a hospital, there will be appropriations on the next state budget for that very hospital. So you might say that it's the cost of the acquisition of expenditure to send representatives of the Advance Party to Bangladesh or to Malawi, which was probably the relevant places. Is it true that in the case of free trade in the world, the Progress Party believes that all countries are equal? Is it so that we can have free trade without international driving rules and without having a well-functioning public sector, infrastructure and local business as necessary? Is it not true that the secret behind the development of our and Western Europe in the last hundred years is the break-up between well-functioning welfare states and infrastructure on the one hand and a functioning market economy on the other? Is it not true that in order to achieve a trade where developing countries, and in particular the poorest, can produce goods and services that we can buy, they should have compensation from the international community? I also think that Carl I. Hagen really underlines what the Minister for Development said in his statement: aid is politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1138	I made it quite clear in my speech that even though we have a principle view, and when there is a large majority who have the entirely dogmatic view that we should have an aid, a kind of percentage of gross domestic product or GNI, we also wanted the funds to be used in the most sensible way possible. So we have subsidiary views on how the funds are used, such as the representative in terms of naming some countries. There, too, there has been talk primarily about private collections. Of course, there must be international driving rules in some areas. We have therefore supported the work of the WTO all the time, as we have supported GATT in the past. We have wanted free trade as a principle and, in particular, to countries in the Third World. The products on which they could initially be competitive have been kept outside the western markets, and there may be the EU among the worst in terms of protectionism, rather than opening its borders to imports of food. Of course, infrastructure needs to be developed in all countries, and there must be good government and good government relations. What we're pointing out is that a lot of the developing world has been trying for a long time on a socialist plan economy. That's what you wanted to do in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, and it's been a total failure as in all other socialist countries. That is why we emphasise that what has been the basis for Western development are concepts such as private property rights, market economy and individual freedom linked to a legal state, where there is a rule of law that protects private property and where there are clear driving rules and independent courts and everything. These are the structures that should have required the developing countries to set up and operate in order to receive other benefits from the Western world. That's the whole nucleus of what we're trying to figure out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1147	I have to admit that my first thought when Carl I. Hagen again took the word in a development debate was that now it's approaching big shots. But then I realized that the Progress Party is currently not represented in the Foreign Affairs Committee and that that must be the explanation. But in any case, it is valuable when parliamentary leaders and party leaders present themselves in an important debate. We understand that the house is busy, but this is a debate that affects large parts of the state budget, and that affects very many people. I believe that hardly any other debate covers as much as the total amount and concerns as many people in the world as this debate is. The fact that the Progress Party prioritizes the way they do, I think it's good. But unlike Marit Nybakk, I didn't think I heard so much new. The only thing that had to be is that this time we released the usual tirad from the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen about women’s rights. We didn't get it this time. But the other thing that was served was of a readily recognizable nature. The technique is to go to the frontal attack on all assistance and tell how little productive and how little constructive Norwegian assistance is, and then to nuance. I like the nuances. I am pleased with what Hagen says about indebtedness, about emergency aid, about bets on health. But what the representative Hagen says about the effect of Norwegian aid is wrong. There are OECD reports that give a very good character to Norwegian aid. What the Progress Party is invited to change policy in relation to and then join the other parties on the Stortinget is to realize that we are putting our efforts in where it is productive and good. We admit errors, yes, well, but in health and education, where the majority of Norwegian aid is directed, these are very good results. Now, soon, Mr Hagen's representative will have to bring these reports with him. I'll be happy to hand them over to him personally, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1154	To the end, I would like to say that it would have been very nice if I could have the reports as Mr. Stone sneeze refers to. He knows where my office is from the time he had the neighborhood office. So I'd like to accept the reports he's now presented. I thought it was a little disappointing that he said it was not much new in what I said. Actually, it was. Some of that also affected Mr. Stoning up afterwards, i.e. indebtedness. It is the first time we have spoken in such a debate that we are beginning to be open to help support debt relief for developing countries, against introducing certain reforms. It is a direct consequence of the fact that we have also held national meetings and revised our policy action programme. We've actually made a change there. I had hoped that, sir. Steensnæs had noticed since he now kind of invites us to change things. On one point, a relatively important point, according to what I have heard, Mr President. Steensnæs talk about earlier, we have been attending. We've actually contributed to an embellishment. When he says that he invites the Advance Party to make changes, that's what we've been trying for years to get other parties to do, which has supported regimes that have obviously had dictatorial regimes, which place money in Switzerland, which are corrupt. We have often put forward proposals in this Chamber that we should make it a condition that we have a democratic system, respect for human rights and the introduction of a market economy. Such suggestions on our part have been voted down, mostly always, with the voices of the Christian People's Party. So I think it would have been natural, when he invites me to change party programs and take into account developments, that he might be able to do the same himself and be a little less inclined to support regimes that obviously have rulers that enrich themselves. So even if we do things that make sense in themselves, we have kept these regimes in power, and that has led to negative attitudes among the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1163	I also need an explanation round with the representative Hagen. I thought one of the bottom planks in the Advance Party's policy was also market liberalism. But if I understood, sir. Hagen correctly, he said that with regard to the poorest countries and the government initiative that has now taken precedence over new WTO rounds by removing customs duties and quota restrictions on agricultural products from the 48 poorest countries, we can only do so if other countries do the same. I hope I misunderstood him there, because I have previously found it a propitiatory feature of the aid policy that the Progress Party stood for to the extent that it was something positive to pick up there. I also note that he will demand that there be a development of democracy and that a market economy be established in these countries, as he himself said, in order to obtain benefits from the Western world. I also noticed that he mentioned that the Progress Party has now turned around in the matter of eradicating debt. But, he said, in that case the aid must lapse. Now it's basically so that the Progress Party is not for assistance at all. But it is then nice that they will be involved in eradicating debt, even though in the name of this changed policy it must be assumed that the Progress Party will also make important demands and make certain assumptions for the cancellation of the debt, namely that there are several Western creditors who do the same, and that there is a real need for democratic development here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1172	Let me confirm that the first Siri Frost Sterri took up was a misunderstanding. It was not my intention to word me so that she could understand it as she believed to have understood it. In any case, we think it is nice that the MUL countries now have market access, without any conditions. It was in the context of debt relief that I talked about that it would be desirable to have a common international approach. There was no assumption on my part either. This change is due, inter alia, to: Norway, at the time, when one of our main reasons for being very negative to state-compulsory aid, had a deficit in its state budgets. There was a direct competition for crowns between the expansion of hospitals, schools, care for the elderly, roads and the like in Norway and spending money abroad. Now that situation is different. We've taken on board that we now have a much better economy. We have a good economy because it's good oil prices, which for us are positive, but which are negative for the developing world. Then, too, we have the moral dilemma of, among other things, is becoming very rich as a result of the fact that even developing countries have to pay dearly for oil imports. That's when we say that morally it might make more sense if we could erase some debt with the means we've been so lucky to get from nature. This is the new situation both internationally and for Norway, especially as a result of which we are softening our attitude in these areas of unhelp. But we are equally strongly attached to the idealistic desire to demand democracy, to demand market economy, etc., because we think that is the best way to do that. And if we have a way to push it through, it'll actually be an advantage to the developing world. But what I've signaled is first of all an embellishment of previous views and a greater degree of willingness to also, too far one-sided, participate in debt. But we would like to connect the idealistic approach – at least we would have hoped to do so – with setting conditions for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1182	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1185	‘Support is policy’, said the Minister for Aid when she summarized the statement on development policy. It was also the main message when one year ago the Council of State made a similar statement to the Stortinget. With a certain right one might say that of course is aid policy. But it is important that the Council of State emphasises so strongly that Norwegian aid policy embraces something far more than a transfer of money to the poor part of the world. Assistance requires national road choices and priorities, but also binding international cooperation. Norwegian aid policy shall also include democracy and peace building, the fight against corruption, the fight against HIV/AIDS and other diseases, the fight for human rights and a better environment and a more humane situation for people in the poor world. To name the national road choices first: as one of the world’s richest countries, Norway has a special obligation to give a handshake to the poor part of the world. Against this background, we need to record that Norway is now losing ground with other countries in terms of transfers to developing countries. Measured in transfers as a share of GNI, gross national income, Norway is no longer the first country we were just a few years ago. According to the internationally accepted calculation method, aid in 2000 was the lowest in 20 years, according to the OECD. Both Denmark, the Netherlands and Sweden are now in front of Norway. Of course, we can explain this with the rapidly increasing oil revenues, which means that GNI is increasing rapidly, but at the same time this growth is an expression of what financial resources Norway actually has. However, it is also part of the story that parties with ambitions to enter the government position actually want Norway to fall further downwards on the international aid list. For the current year, the right proposed a cut in the aid of approx. DKK 2.5 billion for, inter alia: to be able to finance billions of tax credits. Assistance is also a policy because it is a matter of national priorities. When the Minister of Assistance is so focused on this and underlines the Government’s goal of increasing Norwegian aid to 1 pst. of gross national income, the Government of the budget for 2002 is expected to take the first step in such an alerted escalation. The purely economic resource transfers to developing countries are only part of the aid policy, although this is a crucial prerequisite for better living conditions and thus also the basis for better development. Debt is another important prerequisite for the poorest countries to get out of the economic trap many of them are in. The debt plan, presented by the central government in its statement three years ago, is probably one of the most important aid policy interventions implemented year and day. That other creditor countries such as, inter alia, The United States and the United Kingdom are now following up, showing that even smaller countries can play an important role in aid in areas other than direct financial assistance. The Council of State said that Norway has recently been ‘a driving force’ in the establishment of a comprehensive debt settlement. I assume that the Government has ambitions to follow up the debt cancellation strategy that the previous government put forward. It must be understood that the Government intends to invest more strongly in quality and efficiency in Norwegian aid policy, and that one will be more aware of making demands on our partners. It's a line that the Center Party will support. Firstly, such a strategy will mean that one can get more assistance out of each krona, but almost as important is that requirements for quality and efficiency and respect for democratic principles and human rights will make it easier to maintain popular support for Norwegian aid policy. Unfortunately, it is the case that a government council, on behalf of the Government, takes self-criticism and admits that Norwegian aid policy has to some extent ‘extended’. But I think it's right that the search light is now put on the geographically broad commitment that characterizes Norwegian aid policy. To achieve quality and greater efficiency, a critical review of both the countries and the number of countries with which Norway is to cooperate should be carried out, as the Council of State said. Here, of course, there must be some form of international coordination, so that individual countries do not fall outside the aid programmes. Nor can it be strongly emphasised that the desire for concentration and efficiency should not be at the expense of the important principle of poverty orientation of aid. The Central Party may mainly adhere to the principles and criteria for the selection of countries of cooperation outlined in the statement. The corresponding debate a year ago focused on the situation in Zimbabwe. At that time, the Government was somewhat hesitant in its attitude to Zimbabwe's obvious violations of democratic principles and human rights. But, as the Council of State says, the government has taken the consequences of the country's eradicating regime and abolished Zimbabwe as a priority partner country. Compared to countries that are at war with each other — such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. Ethiopia and Eritrea – it is important that one in the bilateral state of state cooperation focuses on the aspect of peace and democracy. There is reason to note the criticism of the Secretary of State for Assistance addressed to the new administration of the United States. I am thinking here of both the resuscitation of Ronald Reagan by the Bush administration of some particular kind of gender equality policy and the attempt to undermine the Kyoto agreement – because development and the environment are also interrelated. International climate cooperation is also important for developing countries. In a strategy for sustainable development in a broad international sense, the Kyoto Protocol is important. After the development policy statement, I am left with the impression that the Minister of Aid was very much clearer than the Prime Minister in his mention of the Bush administration's rejection of the Kyoto agreement. While the Prime Minister was most concerned about Norway’s need to adapt to the United States’ positions — thus helping to facilitate international pressure against the United States — the Minister of Assistance said that Norway had to choose another route; a ‘obligatory international cooperation based on the Kyoto Protocol’. The Central Party expects Norway to put in the lead in international pressure to get the United States to accept the Kyoto agreement. Finally, a few words about the perhaps biggest challenge of development, namely the global HIV/AIDS disaster, which may undermine the outcome of many decades of aid efforts, in the first row in Africa. We are facing an almost unimaginable humanitarian disaster here: in addition to human suffering and the undermining of aid, there is also a risk of political destabilization of the worst affected African countries, which could put an end to any development. The multinational aid earmarked for HIV/AIDS has, as mentioned in the statement, doubled in the current year. Faced with one of the perhaps greatest threats in human history, the Center Party believes that one must be prepared to escalate this effort further.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1208	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1211	Let me first say that the Workers' Party is committed to international cooperation based on the Kyoto Protocol on global environmental challenges. Then I would like to stress that there is a broad consensus in this process on Norwegian development and assistance policy, with the exception of the Progress Party. And there is first and foremost agreement, as far as I can understand, between the Workers' Party, the Centre and the SV. And this is a consensus that has been there ever since we've been treated Innst. S. No 229 for 1996-97. So I think you're going to be very careful, even by the representative of Jakobsen, now trying to draw into doubt the power of action of the Labour Party government in relation to this with volume and share of gross national income. The Labour Party has shown so far in the government position that we give priority to assistance, thus confirming our value choices with action. We increased aid by more than DKK 1.5 billion in the 2001 budget. The government is now also taking action to correct the fall in the financial statements for 2000. The accounting figures showing falls in the aid share due, inter alia, to: the oil price is actually based on the State budget of the Bondevik Government for 2000. I don't think the Workers' Party will ever accuse Mr. Bondevik of wanting to reduce the aid, but it shows once again that you have to be careful about using accounting figures to get to this percentage of gross national income. I think we should agree, both the representative Jakobsen and I, that the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre on aid policy, including the volume, is still there, and that there is no need to dispute the Workers' Party's desire to maintain that percentage.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1220	I am very pleased that the representative Marit Nybakk, hopefully on behalf of the Labour Party and perhaps also on behalf of the Government, indicated that one will remain on the Kyoto Protocol and that one will work for it. When I allowed myself to raise the question, it was in the light of some statements by the Prime Minister as a comment to President Bush" – in my opinion – undermining this agreement. I have here with the Nettavis, where it says about the Prime Minister's signals that the Government will slow down the work on climate action, that Norway ‘will slow down the measures against the greenhouse effect if the US maintains its resistance to the Kyoto agreement’. I allowed myself to give praise to the Minister for Development because I think her statement was much clearer than what the Prime Minister had said. I also allow myself, on the basis of what both Marit Nybakk has now said and what the Minister for Development has said, that there have been certain talks here and that it is the position on the Kyoto Agreement and the United States that the Minister for Development has now presented, which is the one that will apply in the future. With regard to the mention of development aid, I fully agree with Marit Nybakk that there is a great deal of agreement between the Central Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the SV and the Workers' Party. That gives the setting that Marit Nybakk mentioned, also expresses. But there's also a lot of things where there's a minority that consists of the center parts and SV. Otherwise, I have to say that I was a little surprised at what Marit Nybakk concluded with, because I didn't think I somehow expressed my criticism of the Government's and Workers' Party's follow-up to the development aid objectives we have. If I have expressed myself that way, it was not intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1236	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1239	In 1980, the United Nations Member State decided to eradicate hunger and malnutrition by the turn of the millennium. The year 2000 was also the year UNESCO had set the goal of education for all. That's how it went, as we know, not. On the contrary, 40,000 people die every day of starvation, while 800 million people are undernourished. 25 pst. earth's population cannot read and write. World society has a lower, but hopefully realistic, target: halving the proportion of poor by 2015. However, if this goal is to be achieved, more of today’s trends need to be reversed. Today we see a decline in aid from the rich countries. The average now represents only 0,24 pst. of the GDP of the rich countries. It is good that the Government aims to increase assistance to 1 pst. GDP. But SV has asked before, and we ask again: why can't the government follow up on the objective of this in budgetary terms? What is the point of such a measure if it is not followed up in practice? One way to increase assistance could be to set up a development fund, as the Minister for Development has said she will assess. I am, like, among others. the chairperson of the committee, disappointed that the Council of State could not make a concrete proposal to that effect. I would also like to remind you of the SV proposal that the Value Commission has now recycled, namely that a certain proportion of the oil fund should be set aside for investment in the poorest countries. For this year's budget, SV proposed DKK 5 billion to such a fund. This is a realistic proposal that could contribute to the use of our oil money in a way that we can be more proud of than we have reason to be today. When aid's share of GDP is reduced, it means that we are spending more and more of our money on ourselves. There is no reason either to be proud that our neighbouring countries are passing us in this area. But when that is said, I agree with the Minister for Development that we must not lose out in volume and percentages. It is the quality of the assistance that needs to be focused. However, in order to get the spotlight on the content of the assistance, it could perhaps be beneficial if such statements for the future were based on the results of Norwegian assistance and not only on the principles of Norwegian assistance. If we are to maintain a strong commitment to assistance, it is important that the results are made more visible than they are today. It could probably also be useful with more debate on aid that is not going so well. In Norway, for example, something went wrong. Going with the Norwegian environmental technology effort in Indonesia, it would probably guard against a number of raids. New Time 6 this year refers to a report from Fafo, where it appears that six out of seven projects in Indonesia, which have totaled 311 million. NORAD crowns, do not generate income, but have caused the country to increase foreign debt. Four of the projects have simply gone into the sink. This is a frightful example of poor aid efforts. Money is wasted, and it can help undermine the credibility of Norwegian aid, both to people in Norway and outside. In countries where millions of people live in slums, it is a mockery that aid is used in this way. The same amount of money spent on investing in education for children and young people would certainly give a return. The example of Indonesia concerns the pooling of Norwegian industrial interests and assistance. Aid policy instruments must be designed in such a way that there is no doubt that the objective is to improve the living conditions of the poor. Today too much is attributed to the benefits for Norwegian enterprises, in the opinion of the Swedish authorities. Of course, working business is crucial for poor countries to get out of poverty, and we should contribute to this. The Minister for Development was pleased with the cleaning up of food products. SV is not in doubt that it has to be cleared anymore. Norwegian businesses would like to be encouraged to invest in poor countries, but the motivation should not be to carry money from the aid budget. I also call for the Government's view on economic growth in relation to distribution within the poor countries. Without an active policy of distribution, economic growth does not necessarily mean poverty reduction. An even clearer focus on children in Norwegian assistance would give many gains, according to SV's opinion. Firstly, there is a commitment to good growth conditions, basic health care and, in particular, education, good development policy – more targeted and effective than most, including in the context of economic growth. Secondly, it would give an important signal to all those in power around the world who ignore children's rights, if Norway were to say clearly that on our part, the children are in the very first place. Moreover, the needs are obvious. The children are among those who have the most to lose on the AIDS disaster in Africa. Children are directly and indirectly affected — directly by the infection of many children, indirectly by the loss of very many parents. An effect of this is an increase in child labour, as a result of the need for more children to support themselves and their siblings when parents become ill and fall away. More children in work means fewer children in school, and therefore probably a vicious circle for the communities that are affected. The Minister for Development said that he was very positive about focusing on children in the presentation, but the priority of children should be even clearer in the practical aid policy. The Minister for Development announced a review of cooperation countries, themes and instruments for Norwegian assistance. This review welcomes SV. It is clear that there can be too much good will on too many themes, and that this can go beyond the quality of the assistance. SV will wait for which countries the Minister of Development thinks we should step down to, but would remind you that it is also possible to focus better by choosing fewer issues for bet. I have already mentioned the business systems as candidates for cleaning up and child-oriented assistance as the topic of increased investment. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has recently examined the suspension of aid agreements, which entered into force in 1999. I do not know to what extent such a list gives a representative expression of the Norwegian aid, but I think it says a little. The list includes lobster and canari, and from this list Norwegian aid has a fuzzy profile. The list includes 75 contracts concluded. It is clear from the contract titles that about 12 of these agreements can be presumed to have direct effect on children. This also does not give a picture that children are such a central target group for Norwegian aid as the Minister for Development has claimed. SV believes that the aid must be political. There is no doubt that aid has the most impact in good governance countries. But it must not exclude that aid can be given to those who are fighting for political reforms in countries with poor governance. Support for political opposition, trade union movement or human rights movements will be very important on the road to a better system of governance. Like the Minister for Development, SV believes it is positive that there has been an increase in the acceptance of demands on the beneficiaries of the assistance. It is natural that we make demands for the fulfilment of human rights and poverty reduction plans, to mention something. But the requirements must be based on what benefits poor people in the recipient countries and what can strengthen their rights. It'll be, for example. Very wrong when the World Bank and the Monetary Fund structural adjustment programmes call for cuts in the public sector, in schools and health services to reduce debt. The Minister for Development highlighted the role of organisations in his presentation. Of course, organisations must meet requirements for coordination and for results in their work. But I think there's reason to respond to the report the Minister of Development has from the organizations, where she cuts everyone over a comb and says: ‘In spite of consistently good results... the wider development effect is thus limited. In some cases, the ability of national authorities to carry out their tasks in a rational way is also impaired.» Especially the last thing I think is a claim that the Minister of Development should either have elaborated or not come along. This may be a relevant issue in some cases, but it is unlikely to be as general as the Minister of Development has the impression. It is not that organisations only have private partners and run private projects. Norwegian organisations often cooperate with public authorities in countries receiving assistance, respecting their priorities and clearly anchoring projects locally with local authorities. I therefore think that the Minister for Development could give a more balanced presentation of this. A very positive side of the statement was that the Government will invest more in the political parties in the Great Britain in the development work, and will propose a concrete allocation to this over next year's government budget. This was addressed in the context of the last year’s statement of assistance, and we are pleased that the Government is now following this up. Norwegian parties have a lot to learn from multi-party grass-root anchoring systems. At the same time, Norwegian parties probably have a lot to learn from themselves to engage in aid work and from working closely with people who are engaged in politics under different conditions than ourselves. SV has already tried this out for a few years. We have started extensive cooperation with parties in El Salvador and Guatemala, and have so much good experience with this. When it comes to the proposals of the Christian People's Party, I find it difficult to take a position on that above the table, and I therefore hope that the Christian People's Party will turn it into a transmission proposal. For SV's part, we just want to stress that what we think is important is that the parties have direct contact with parties outside, and that we do not build up an intermediary that becomes what really has that contact. The important thing is to involve the parties directly in relief activities, as we see it. SV also welcomes the fact that the Minister for Development will strengthen the evaluation function of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Development assistance is difficult, and a lot can go wrong. The best way to ensure quality is to constantly review the experience and to hold a continuous debate on what can be improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1282	Never before in history have so many people lived in countries that are characterized by what we know as democratic regimes. The collapse of the Communist regimes following the fall of the Wall in 1989 helped to speed up the development of the functioning of the market economy in large parts of Europe. What we also see, however, is that a number of countries still do not experience the development of the economy, and often not the development of the political system. The Minister of Development’s statement shows that the Government is continuing much of the central government’s aid policy. This is good, because aid policy needs continuity and long-term sustainability. The objective of stepping up assistance to poor countries should be maintained. We are all aware that assistance in no way provides the full and complete answer to the challenges facing the poor part of the world. Globalisation creates both new opportunities and new challenges. We are experiencing a great increase in wealth in some parts of the world, but at the same time, despite economic and technological developments, we have not been able to reduce the gap between the rich and the poorest countries. The debt crisis means that many countries do not have their own resources for new investment in social and development promotion measures. The poorest countries do not have the same access to new investment and market access. The left therefore lacked greater ambitions in the presentation on how Norway can contribute to real development in the poorest countries by facilitating the conditions for increased investment, debt relief and increased trade. Norway must be a driving force in order for the next round of negotiations in the WTO to effectively safeguard the interests of developing countries. Norway has to levy zero duty on LDC products and bind them in the WTO. Norway must also work for greater openness in the WTO, both to the outside world and to ensure greater internal democracy between Member States. Only in this way can the WTO be seen to promote fair international legislation. Norway also needs to go further in debt relief. Despite increased support among rich countries for the International Debt Lease Initiative, measures are long overdue before they are robust enough. It is therefore important that the Norwegian debt plan be continued with the central government established. It is also necessary to increase the coordination of debt relief in order to improve the efficiency of implementation. Assistance is policy, both through support for actions to strengthen democracy and human rights, and because assistance is always a support to the current government. It is still necessary for Norway to freeze parts of the State to the State aid of a country such as Zimbabwe. At the same time, the Left believes that the Minister for Development should go further: clear signals must be given that Zimbabwe's status as a priority co-operative country will cease if there are no clear signs of improvement. The situation in Zimbabwe also underlines the need to focus more on Norwegian aid for democracy and human rights. Democracy is not a sufficient, but a necessary condition for ensuring human rights and a more socially equitable development. It is also an important prerequisite for economic development. Without a system of governance in which the population can throw their own leaders into elections, there is no confidence in stable social and political developments, which is once again necessary to ensure new investment and production. The left is committed to strengthening the coordination of government donors' policies. Unfortunately, the fervor of planting their own country’s flag in other people’s countries has often been unfortunate. At the same time, however, it is necessary to distinguish between the assistance aimed at supporting state development plans and the assistance aimed at strengthening civil society. Much of the assistance from Norwegian non-governmental organisations is directed towards non-governmental organisations and thus helps to build a pluralist society. This strengthens alternative solutions and democracy, just such a social life that we are so proud of here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1305	Development policy is not about closing your eyes and giving. It's not about buying a good conscience. It is about international solidarity, and it is about a wise foreign policy. I am pleased with the positive reception I have received, both inside and outside this hall, although I also record critical comments – which gives energy to the development debate here today and hopefully later. The fight against poverty is and will be the cornerstone of Norwegian development policy. It is our desire to contribute to the most effective fight against poverty that makes us demand – demands that our partners show political will to do something about poverty and injustice, that they show political will to good governance. But it's hard to stand on Stortingen's pulpit and hand out the "government character" in the east and west. There may be many reasons why a character book looks bad – some of them innocent. We will spend time in the future in a thorough review of the basis for development cooperation with a sample of countries. We can't be around anywhere and at any time. Today we open too much. We recommend that there be fewer main cooperation countries. They must be among the poorest countries. They shall demonstrate the willingness to pursue poverty-reduction policies. We have to choose countries where our efforts could have the most positive effect. In the 2002 draft budget, the Government will return to the Grand Duchy on the choice of the main cooperation countries. But let's say that already now: where we're in, we have to be big enough to be an interesting long-term partner for the partner country. Where we are inside, we must be good enough to be able to cooperate on an equal footing, both with the multilateral aid organisations and with other donor countries. This does not mean that we ‘forget’ other countries, including countries where poor people suffer from poor governance. We should also contribute in such countries, but in other ways. Not least through multilateral development cooperation, we can reach poor groups in other countries, where Norway, as a bilateral donor, can hardly add value of importance to its efforts. This is one of the reasons why the Government is stepping up multilateral efforts — perhaps not the main reason, but one of them. It is also important, through bilateral assistance, to support change forces in countries where authorities do not show sufficient willingness to fight poverty. Where we choose not to have a state of state cooperation, non-governmental organisations can also play an important role. We have a commitment to the Norwegian people to manage the aid efficiently. This is in line with the Government’s commitment to improving the efficiency of general government. The requirements for increased efficiency also address the many actors involved in development cooperation, including voluntary organisations. We want to build on their commitment and competence, and we will continue to cooperate closely, but at the same time we need to make sure that their work contributes to the whole in the best possible way. I would like to comment here on one of the questions raised by the representative Steensnæs, who supported disabled people in developing countries, for example. through the Atlas Alliance. Support for disabled people in developing countries and cooperation with organisations of disabled people in Norway remain a high priority of the Government. The revised guidelines on support for non-governmental organisations state that the requirement of 20 pst. in proportion in very many cases may be reduced to 10 pst. This will, for example: The Atlas Alliance could enjoy it. Furthermore, the organisations of disabled people will be able to cooperate with NORAD for mission projects in high priority areas of Norwegian development policy. Such projects are exempt from the obligation of partiality. Development policy must support the country's own efforts in the fight against poverty. That is why we want to increase, not reduce, our aid efforts. That is why we want to open, not close, our borders to products from the poorest developing countries. And that is why we want to make development cooperation an even better tool in the fight against poverty. I would like to address here the question of the relationship between quality and volume, which has been raised by several in the debate, and perhaps comment in particular on a few of the recordings by the representative Frost Sterri. The Labour Party believes that volume is also very important, and that we have an increasing moral responsibility. As our own wealth is increasing, but not least because our own understanding of how to alleviate poverty is increasing, so does our moral responsibility to contribute. And that means that we also have to increase our effort quantitatively. This is why the GNI indicator, i.e. ODA as a share of gross national income, to be considered as an international solidarity indicator. That is why this indicator is so important, because it has something to do with one’s own ability to contribute to poverty reduction. In this context, I will address issues related to development funds that have been commented on by several. As mentioned in my presentation, the government is now investigating possible alternatives, models, for a development fund. That's what I can say here and now. As everyone knows, we are committed to increasing assistance. That was one of the reasons why we increased the year's budget by SEK 1.5 billion from last year, and that's also why we maintain the goal of achieving the 1 pst goal. But then questions were asked about any lack of action on this issue. I wonder about that. When, in 1998, the Value Commission wrote letters to the then government, the Bondevik government, asking for an assessment of how best to manage the petroleum resources, the letter they received was returned — mentioned in the final report of the Value Commission, and the Commission criticises the Bondevik Government for it — expressing, as the Commission perceived, that the Petroleum Fund should be used primarily to promote our own national interests. It criticises the Value Commission, and it is much in the light of the criticism – that is the admission – that they then propose a development fund, as presented in the Commission’s final report. Why, in the name of action, did not the Bondevik government present a concrete proposal on a development fund, for example. after he had received such an enquiry from the Value Commission in his time? The reason why we're taking time to solve this question is that it's a very important question. These are billions of dollars — some propose NOK 6 billion, others propose NOK 60 billion — and they are about the purpose for which such a fund should be used. Is it indebtedness? Is it for investment? Or it's a fund that's going to help us achieve the goal of 1 pst.? Here's a lot of variables, a lot of different models. This needs to be properly investigated. Through development cooperation, we need to focus on the children in particular. They are the future of the countries. This is done by the Government – through the allocation of vaccination campaigns, as children who are victims of war and conflict and in the fight against child labour. In order to help these children — and thus their country — to a better future, there is no escape from increased transfers of aid. However, such increased aid transfers will not have the Progress Party, nor will they do the Right. For me, it is difficult to understand that we do not see the need for increased transfers, precisely because today we know much more than before about the causes of poverty and how to combat poverty effectively. It gives us an ever greater moral responsibility, as I have said. Development prevents conflict. Development, justice and peace are closely linked. Through our work in the UN Security Council, we constantly underline this context. We must also remember that development policy is an important part of the Norway image created abroad, where we are well aware of our oil wealth and prosperity. Development policy also counters a picture of Norway where self-interests, materialism and egoism are placed in the highseas. Our commitment is towards the poorest. That is why we are making stricter demands on ourselves and on our countries of cooperation in the south. We need to show political will and action to strengthen aid. Unfortunately, not all parties take this responsibility. The Labour Party Government has this will and the power to act. We have confirmed that in a government budget, and we will confirm that again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1349	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1352	The Minister for Development has had his statement, and now she is going to answer questions. Of course, it's limited what she gets time for. I just have to admit that I was not satisfied with the Minister's reply when it came to the development fund. She specified that she and the Government are busy with volume. I believe that she must use the tools that are possible to achieve this. Then, in my opinion, a development fund is perhaps the best way to get to the goal. There are big issues, she says, and there's a lot of money. Yes, it is. But in principle, I still have difficulty in understanding why, with the framework conditions that the fund should have, the very establishment of the fund could not be presented in the revised national budget, except under the possibilities of today's Council of State answers. I'm afraid she didn't use that reason. It is true that the Value Commission perceived the answer to the enquiry to the Prime Minister's office, i.e. the office of the then Prime Minister Bondevik, more negatively than I think it was the basis for. But it was not at all presented in a context where there was a proposal for such a development fund as it is now. That idea came later and was put into practice a long time later. In any case, I think that if you think that the criticism of the Value Commission was despicable and factual, then the government that agrees with that criticism should do something other than put up with new criticisms, both from the Value Commission and from the Storting. So the government didn't answer my questions when it was NORFUND and when it was Nicaragua. But she gave a positive answer when it came to the Atlas Alliance, and I'm glad. Finally, let me just refer to the press release on the decoupling of aid for the least developed countries. ‘Development today’ detracts from the meaning of this declaration because it is so diffuse and unobligatory. I would like to ask the Council of State: what are the concrete effects of such decoupling here in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1364	I just want to reaffirm again that volume is also important, and that we have to try to get an increase up to 1 pst, as many responsible parties in this room agree, and that development funds can be a mechanism in such a context. We now have an assessment of this. Einar Steensnæs was not quite satisfied with my answer here. I am not really satisfied with his answer to my question as to why the Bondevik administration did not make such a proposal concrete in its time. In the case of NORFUND — just quickly — Steensnæs called for better communication between NORFUND and industry. I take note of the experience the Foreign Affairs Committee has had with Norwegian companies in some contexts here, and I want to take this further. With regard to Nicaragua, there was a question of the extent to which internal affairs could be involved. A case was raised that was promoted by the Norwegian Embassy on behalf of a number of other embassies, who were concerned that Nicaragua would not be able to deal with its international obligations in its future equality policy. There was a letter on the occasion of the case to the Nicaraguan authorities confirming that Nicaragua would deal with its international obligations in this area. I can't see that it's an premature interference in internal affairs. Equality issues are a very important issue for us in the field of human rights. I believe, no matter how we turn it around, that when we make demands on our cooperation countries, we will have to deal with internal relations in these countries in the most constructive way possible – of course. In terms of decoupling from LDCs: I believe the agreement reached in the OECD is important, because it helps to push decoupling, it helps to put pressure on land to cut aid. There is no hokuspokus, there are several reservations in this confiscation unit that have been achieved. But we, for our part, will at least follow up with a strategy for the further decoupling of Norwegian aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1375	The Minister of Development said she had difficulty understanding that there is no need for increased transfers to developing countries. Sure, they might need more money, we don't have a hard time understanding that, but we also have to ask counter questions. More money is not always the answer to the challenges facing countries. We should be careful so that we are not actively involved in creating the financial dependency that has also been pointed out as a development aid problem. We need to have quality in the aid, we need to be sure that the aid works. The Minister for Development himself says that we have to bet widely when we are betting, and we agree with that. This involves both trade, where a positive Norwegian initiative has now taken place, and investment to help build private business in developing countries, as well as – of course – institution building, democratic development, debt relief and all the other measures. I now want to challenge the Council of State for something she did not respond to in the interpellation debate we had. I then raised the question of the bilateral investment agreements and pointed out that there has been a broad consensus in the Storting that these should be frozen pending the WTO's adoption. But it doesn't seem to be happening, and the other Nordic countries have gone on with bilateral investment agreements. It has also been called for by the Norwegian business community. My question is briefly whether the Minister for Development will consider moving forward with this, so that Norway can also become more active in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1384	With regard to the need for increased assistance, I note that the representative Frost Sterri agrees that there is a need for increased transfers, that there may certainly be a number of needs for increased assistance around the poor countries. I think that's good. It is also the case that we agree that a variety of instruments need to be used to contribute to poverty reduction and development in the cooperating countries, and that assistance is one of these instruments. Another instrument is trade, of which the Right is also very concerned. But I have to say – also as a comment on posts that have been held here by the representative Hagen – that when discussing the relationship between trade and assistance, for example, this trading instrument is pushed in front of me. with representatives of the World Trade Organisation, no one is more concerned than them that there is also a strong need to increase trade-related assistance to establish, for example. a good export-oriented private sector in developing countries, and that measures in all other areas of assistance, such as education and health, are just prerequisites for a healthy business. This is what is now internationally called the Enabling Environment. Clearly, a country that has not trained its workforce, which has enormous health problems, etc., is unable to develop its business. Business needs the development work that we do on a broad basis. Then it is clear that there is a need for investment, and we are of course constantly considering what kind of instrument we should have, and whether there are things we should do in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1398	In its statement, the Minister for Assistance referred to the concrete expansion of MUL imports carried out. I refer to the sceptical interpellation debate that has been mentioned earlier today, and I would like to remind you that the centre party in the debate gave clear support to the expansion of MUL imports. I would like to make it clear that in the Central Party we are clearly distinguishing between the general import regime, for example. for food products and the MUL imports reserved for the poorest countries. Very well known, there is hardly any batch – without prejudice to the Progress Party – which believes that we should have a completely free market in such products, rather than a full and open, unlimited cross-border trade in food. When the increased MUL imports were presented, it was underlined that certain safeguard clauses were in place that could be implemented under special conditions. Well, there's a general consideration that few people are questioning. However, in the opinions of representatives of the political leadership in the department, it was also stated on a certain occasion that it was the Ministry's objective to be able to turn some of the imports from the rich industrialized countries into the poor developing countries. I would like to hear if the Minister of Aid can confirm this, and, perhaps even more interestingly, how this is to be implemented in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1407	I note the support given by the Central Party here to the proposal of the Government to extend imports from the LDCs, and I think it is very positive. With regard to the desirability of increasing imports from the poorest countries, that is the objective of the reforms we are proposing here. If we are to increase imports from the poorest countries, the most important prerequisites are to find in these countries themselves, namely that they are able to establish export-oriented industries that can compete and that meet the requirements, among other things. sanitary requirements and quality requirements, which we generally impose on imports into our markets. And it is, as I have said before, a broad range of instruments to achieve this, including trade-related assistance, but also aid related to a number of sectors in developing countries, which in itself constitute the environment in which industries are to develop. So setting down customs barriers and imposing import restrictions is one set of instruments, another is assisting countries themselves in developing competitive industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1414	I would like to follow up on a theme that the Minister for Development was in his statement, but which I believe deserves a little more attention from Stortinget as well. These are the preparations for the UN Special Session on Children. The Children’s Convention Forum, which includes most Norwegian organisations and environments that are concerned with children’s rights, has lacked a clearer profile and a clearer message in the preparation by Norway. The Minister for Development gave some signals in the presentation on what theme she wants to prioritise, and I fully agreed with these. But what I would like to ask the Council of State is whether she and Norway will help to strengthen the right perspective in the negotiations during the special session and in relation to the final document, and help to strengthen the view that children have rights independent of the family, rights as independent individuals. This is not obvious, and it is countered by a number of countries. Although all countries in the world, other than Somalia and the United States, have ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, there is a huge amount remaining in the implementation of the Convention, and in the SV's view, the Children's Convention is an instrument that Norway must help to strengthen. I hope the Government will give priority to the special session on children, and would like to have the Minister of Development's view on these issues of children's rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1421	The child attendance will be a very important event this year, and we have a wide-ranging preparatory work. We give a very high priority to preparation and participation. It is done across several departments, and I do so in consultation with several of my colleagues in the Government. It is very important to use the Children’s Convention to strengthen children’s rights and improve the living conditions and situation of children, and it is obvious that the right perspective is very relevant in many of the contexts and in many of the themes on which we will focus during the summit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1426	On 1 April 2001, the United Kingdom implemented an absolute decommitment of all its assistance, ahead of the other donor countries. On 25 April this year, the OECD/DAC, the main policy forum for development policy among all donors, adopted the decoupling of aid for the least developed countries. When the central government reduced the amount of mixed credit and tied aid in the Norwegian aid budget for 1998 and 1999, we were clearly informed by the Right and the Workers' Party that it was now enough, one had to stop and not do more, pending developments internationally. It was said that they did not want a competitive disadvantage for Norwegian companies. So now we see that the Social Democratic British Government chose a completely different line. I would have liked it to be Norway, and not the United Kingdom, which had been the first to do such a solidarity and have been slapped on the shoulders of the poorest countries – and also of international trading environments, which are engaged in free competition and in avoiding distortions of competition in international trade and international aid. So now we've got an international solution, and even though it's weaker than both the Council of State and I would like to, we still have to expect a proper follow-up from the Norwegian side. And that's relative to what my question to the Council of State is going on. The Council of State announced a strategy for decoupling, and my question is: Will that strategy for following up this decoupling decision be on a minimum line, i.e. that you do just what you have to do, or will you actually extend a little longer and show that Norway respects its solidarity tradition by going as far as the United Kingdom does, by eliminating absolutely all aid? And I want to challenge the Council of State to celebrate: when can she imagine that Norway will follow the social-democratic colleagues in the United Kingdom and do what Clare Short did on April 1st this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1437	The government wants to make assistance more effective in the fight against poverty, and in order to succeed in this work, we need to be prepared to end the aid. It has been shown that tied assistance in such a context in a good number of cases is considered to be 25 pst. less effective than unbound assistance. This commitment will help the recipient countries to buy the goods where they can get the most for the money. In many cases this may be in other developing countries, and we hope that the decoupling will help to make a greater share of the purchases in developing countries. It is clear that decoupling has been a difficult issue for many donor countries, and it has also been a demanding question for us. The size has been concerned that we should act in line with developments internationally, among other things. and follow the work carefully. The main principle of Norwegian assistance is that it should be unbound, but there is some percentage, possibly 3-4, of the Norwegian aid that is tied up, depending on the definition used. Before the summer, the government will discuss a strategy on how best to follow up the OECD countries' agreement on the decoupling of aid, even when inspired by the UK's efforts in this area, and we hope that the UK's work will also go as quickly as they themselves expect. This means that, among other things: have to look at the business systems, we have to look at mixed credits, and we have to look at activities within NORFUND. All these arrangements need to be considered in the context of such an overall decoupling strategy. I would also like to repeat some of what Marit Nybakk said in his statement, namely that we also need to ensure that, in the case of aid projects, we make sure that the necessary requirements are met both in the environmental and social spheres, so that a number of such considerations are met when we put an end to the aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1450	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1454	I can hardly say I am satisfied with the answer that the Council of State came with. It was very vague and she could not guarantee that Norway would go beyond the small minimum and the spouse of the solution in the OECD. We'll have the opportunity to follow up later. I will refer to the time when the Christian People's Party made a counter-communication in relation to the announcement of development cooperation by the then Labour Party Government. One of the main reasons for this counter-declaration was that we were dissatisfied not only with debt, but also with mixed credits. The third relationship we took up was the proposal to fragment aid in too many countries and the danger that this would significantly weaken poverty orientation. We were critical of abandoning the main cooperation country scheme and wanting a concentration in a few countries. Now the Christian People's Party gained a relatively large impact through the treatment in Stortinget. The result was a much higher concentration than the concentration added by the then working party government. It is therefore interesting to note that today's workers' party government through the presentation wants to go back to the main cooperation country scheme and want more concentration in fewer countries, which is thus similar to ours at the time. That's why we have no problem joining such a review either. The main criterion must be poverty correction and concentration in the poorest countries. In terms of priorities beyond that, in relation to the number of countries, criteria for the selection of countries and which to focus on, we will all take reservations. Let me also give three warnings on behalf of the Christian People's Party in this work: Firstly, one must be careful to choose countries solely on the basis of so-called performance criteria. This may quickly lead to the concentration of most donor countries on some so-called donor twins, where relatively short-term success criteria related to macro-economic policies become crucial. Here, World Bank assessments can sometimes be too simple and too one-dimensional. Secondly, an equivalent must take account of the fact that assistance is long-term and often sad work, where the situation in the country can change relatively much over time. Board assessments must therefore be based on a long-term assessment of the political situation in the country concerned, on the assumption of the will to reform and the basis for further development of democracy, etc. Sometimes you also have to endure in less pleasant periods because you see the will to realise a apparent potential for improvement in the long term. Thirdly, one must also take into account the efforts of other donors in the assessment. Where other donors are heavy inside, we don't necessarily need to increase our effort, but take into account the so-called absorption problem. Co-ordination among donors must be entirely indicative. The other aspect I would like to touch on relates to democracy in the aid. There is no good government without people taking part in the decisions, and without a government being accountable to the people in elections and between elections. As the Council of State, I therefore launched in spring 1999 a strategy for a new donor for the development of democracy in development cooperation and endorsed it. We made a run both in relation to the political parties and in relation to actors in the media, inviting them as partners in the work. The reactions were very positive. However, we did not fully measure a fixed arrangement before the Government left. Therefore, I am pleased that the current government shows interest in such cooperation in relation to the parties on the Stortinget. Since then, the Dutch have also developed a very interesting model, the Institute for Multiparty Democracy, the so-called IMD, which is behind all the parties in the Netherlands, and with the support of the aid budget. The lots are used directly in the work towards their respective partners. The IMD was recently launched. It takes account of all the considerations listed by the Council of State in its statement and avoids falling into the ditch that one has previously done by so many such party initiatives. I am thinking in particular of ‘missioning strategies’, where the primary purpose is to create subdivisions of one’s own political movement in other countries. And I'm thinking about the tendency to overfocus elections and election campaigns in relation to long-term organisational and competence building between elections, because that's the most important thing for both parties, politicians and parliamentarians. This is the background to the proposal we have made, which we are more than happy to submit to the Government. Here one can certainly also add to the cooperation with the UNDP-related centre of democracy to be established in Oslo. The third aspect I want to touch on is the importance of action following words. And then I'm not thinking primarily of government and councils, but of the main development policy actors at the moment, the IMF and the World Bank. There is now an international consensus on a common effort to halve the number of people in absolute poverty by 2015. There has been a fantastic impact on poverty correction for policies and assistance. There has also been a major breakthrough in the international financial institutions. At least in words. Both for the World Bank and the IMF, and not least the latter, there is still a great deal to be done before rhetoric and action are reconciled. It is not least the recognition that macroeconomic policies also need to be adjusted in order to contribute to the fight against poverty. Poverty-oriented policies are not just increasing investment in education and health. Poverty-oriented policies involve changes in macroeconomic requirements and adaptations. Otherwise, such changes as PRSP processes and the like are only to pour new wine into old skin bags. Here I would encourage the Council of State to be a proper watchman on behalf of the poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1480	Is the President aware that the representative made the proposal for a transmission proposal? - It'll be nod. So it's kind of whitening.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1483	Assistance policy has clear, comprehensive and long-term objectives, and if we ignore one of the parties in this Chamber, then there is a fundamental consensus on the need for aid policy and on the objectives of aid policy. What's left over then is to discuss the level and methods. So we can disagree on how we're going to achieve the results that we're agreeing to achieve. The Christian People's Party has always had a strong profile in this work, and the aid work has put them firmly in their hearts. The representative Steensnæs is now concerned that we have ended up in fourth place among donor countries, because the accounts from 2000 show that we are down to 0.80 pst. We know that there is an oil price and a high dollar price that is the reason for this. I agree that we should have a systematic increase in our aid efforts, that we have an increased commitment to assist more as our own wealth seems to increase. But I'm one of those people who have a little bit of problems with a spasmodic relationship to percentages. I don't think that's appropriate, but I see that it can be a guide, and that we have the goal of contributing 1 pst. of GNI. So lower oil prices and dollar price falls could lead to a situation where our aid budget goes down from one year to the next, if we're going to keep this systematically. Here it is possible that such a fund could be an instrument to prevent such problems. Now I don't think that the Christian People's Party needs to deal with percentages, either, because in 1999, the representative Scarbøvik confirmed to me in a line change here in the hall that the goal of the Christian People's Party was 1.5 pst. of GNI. And today Steensnæs confirmed that the goal was 1 pst. Whatever the percentage, I think we're going to increase our effort, and so this year's increase is SEK 1.5 billion. Therefore, it is not quite neat to say that the aid goes down. In relation to different statements on the final figures, it can do so, but the actual transfers in dollars are an increase. I will not underestimate the fact that the aid has fallen to 0.8 p.m., but in actual kroner our assistance is still increasing. I will be allowed to say a few words about our relationship with Russia, because what we are discussing here is largely the ODA countries, of course. But if we look a little bit at our neighboring country in the east, we know how the situation there is in many ways. We also know that without stability and without development in Russia, both stability and development in Europe will be delayed or disturbed. And we can see that areas like the Caucasus and Central Asia will have major problems without a strong, stable and well-developed Russia as a tractor. I very much agree with the representative Nybakk, who said earlier in the debate that it is not a matter of considering Russia as a developing country, that we are going to have some traditional and classic kind of assistance into that country. What we are talking about in relation to Russia is partnership and participation. I think what we're going to need, above all, is Russian knowledge, knowledge of their culture, their way of thinking -- at all -- an understanding of Russia's way of working. I think we've been missing a lot of that, and that's why I think we've also been bombing on a lot of projects and ideas that we've been into in that country. Instead of becoming a crag around the foot, which Russia can become if the country does not get out of the situation it is in, Russia can become a significant player in reducing poverty worldwide.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1498	What did you know? What did you do? Why didn't you do more? These were three thought-provoking questions asked by the Minister for Development in his presentation. I could add a fourth: what have we learned from the mistakes that were made? And a fifth: who led us in the wrong ways, when the Minister of Development thinks we have to take self-criticism? We should spend a lot of time finding the right answers to, for example: why the World Bank and the Monetary Fund have made trips as long as they have done a country by country. We must now have a proper review of the so-called structural adjustment programmes, the consequences they have had, and learn from them. We've given too long with one hand and brought the other and listened too little to them. We also need a review of the WTO and the international trading system, in the light of development, the environment and social conditions. It is primarily these institutions that have to bear great responsibility for the fact that things have gone wrong. I – and many with me – are very impatient to move forward in democratising and improving these institutions. But of course politicians also have a part of the responsibility, because the goals and strategies that the institutions have had have been blessed by politicians. I think people are most willing to give sovereignty and to cooperate more cross-border if it is maintained by democratic assemblies and not by an elite of multinational companies. But it is precisely these that are almost unique in the global arena today, and they have very great power and influence over the international economic institutions. In my opinion, the assessments have become too one-sided on the premises of capital. Parliamentarians have not been able to match this. That's what scares and luckily has made people stand up in protest, as we've seen in Seattle and in Praha. It is not an alternative to globalisation, but it is an alternative to today's kind of globalisation. I am opposed to the direction and development we see today in the field of economic globalisation. Therefore, there is a need for more and better political governance to reverse developments, and there is a need for transnational governance. There is a need to regain political will to govern and act, and we must prevent currency speculators and multinational companies from depriving the national states of the right of self-determination. Complete freedom, with capital, multinational companies, tax havens and the explosion of speculative transactions, forces the nation states to race wildly to attract investors. 90 pst. of the global capital movements are speculative. More than $1,800 billion is being moved around daily on the currency markets in the pursuit of quick profit, without any connection to production life and trade in goods and services. In this way, countries are in the process of entering into endless competition for investment from international financial capital, which undermines the freedom of action of individual countries to pursue autonomous economic policies and to maintain welfare systems and professional rights. This is not development, but substantiates underdevelopment for the poorest countries. We cannot allow turbocapitalism and financial acrobats to advance and threaten the economic and social situation of countries and regions. My point is – a little more briefly – that there is little help when turbocapitalists are out on tour and raiding businesses and countries. The global protest movement Attac, who is working for democratic control and regulation of financial markets, wants to demand power back over the world's future. Attac believes that another world is possible, and there are many of us who believe. The global movement – the Attac movement – which is about to rise against the injustices created by the speculative economy, if it continues to evolve as a popular protest movement, can become an important partner for parliamentarians around the world who want to reverse developments in a spirit of solidarity. Per. Today, for example, More than 600 parliamentarians signed a call for Tobin tax – a bulwark I think is very important. It's exciting to work with a protest movement when we can agree on the goals. And so – just so it's said: Attac is a non-violent movement, and I look forward to it being established in Norway if not too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1517	The government of Stoltenberg has put poverty control on the political agenda – not least the Council of State’s presentation showed this. In the countries for which Norway provides assistance, the central focus is poverty reduction, democratisation and human rights. People with disabilities are those who always come to the bottom of the social ladder in these countries. Therefore, it is important that both the previous and the current government give priority to disabled people as one of its main groups. The organisations of the disabled in Norway, in particular the Norwegian Association of the Devolved – NFU – carry out important international solidarity work. Organisational development and support for human organisations with development barriers in the Third World help to promote human rights and democratic development. This is an important perspective to have with it. In the light of this recognition, it is necessary to ensure that such organisations have the opportunity to continue their assistance work. Self-proprietary and administrative support requirements must be provided for in this area. The organisations of disabled people do not exercise charities, but solidarity in practice. When, in Norwegian aid policy, we define precisely democracy development and human rights as two main pillars, and at the same time place people with disabilities as one of the priority main groups in aid policy, we cannot at the same time organise solutions that degrade and end the work just done by disabled people's organisations in relation to international solidarity. The Council of State focused on poverty reduction as a central point in its presentation. Such poverty reduction can be achieved by using all the tools available to us, and here in Norway, voluntary organisations represent an important role in this work. Let us therefore ensure that the organisations of disabled people can continue their international solidarity work in relation to people in similar situations in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1529	I think there has been a very constructive debate on the basis of the Minister of Development's presentation. I just want to grab a few points, and the first is about what Hilde Frafjord Johnson said about decoupling. If I remember Frafjord Johnson's posts correctly, she meant to know that in Innst. S. No 28 for 1999-2000, the Labour Party and the Right had agreed to be reluctant to go to full disengagement, while other parties had been too fully decommissioned. I then find reason to quote from Innst. S. No 28 on Hilde Frafjord Johnson's own statement on development policy, in which a majority consisting of all parties except the Progress Party – also the Christian People's Party – ‘shows that there has been a broad agreement on the decoupling of Norwegian aid. However, the majority would stress that the decoupling of Norwegian aid in the interests of the competitive situation of Norwegian companies needs to be seen in the close context of the decoupling of other OECD countries’. I would also like to refer to what has now happened in the OECD, where we have come a little further. If we go back to Innst. S. No 28 for 1999-2000, the majority refers to ‘to press ahead with the lowest bid, both to reduce the quality of the aid and to reduce the ‘soft values’ of the aid policy’. The majority goes on to say: «... decoupling and thus increasing competition internationally illustrate the need for robust tendering procedures with emphasis on environmental and social responsibility requirements; in order to avoid the submission of tenders which do not take account of such considerations.» I assume that the representative Frafjord Johnson does not believe that we should go to full market liberalism in the area of international aid. So if you go for 100 pst. Decommissioning is not the case, if one goes too fast, that it is enterprises in developing countries that receive these tenders. There are, on the contrary, multinational companies, for which we have had a description in a previous post, which is taking more and more of these tenders. They are able to push prices far down because they have low wages, a lack of social expenditure and run clean exchanges and child labour. It is not this type of enterprise that we will receive these tenders and thus deliver products to developing countries as part of Norwegian aid. But the most important thing in this setting was that all parties, except the Progress Party, were united on the comments that there is agreement on the decoupling of Norwegian aid, that this must be done in close dialogue with stakeholders in business and working life, and that it is necessary to ensure that respect for fundamental professional rights is reflected in the strategy for economic development. So it is not that the Workers' Party has stood on one side and the Christian People's Party has stood on the other side. This has been a broad consensus in Stortinget. I also assume that there is and will be a broad consensus on this further, so that we get a gradual decoupling, but at the same time we care about environmental considerations, professional rights, etc. Then you can question why other countries go faster than us. Have they taken into account the same environmental considerations and have they taken care of this with social expenditure? I believe that the Norwegian position is very balanced and that it is at the best of the developing countries, while also ensuring that we have a dialogue with the Norwegian actors in Norwegian aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1558	I'm perhaps somewhat surprised at the temperament of Marit Nybakk's posts, and I'll just be careful to say the following: firstly, there has never been any disagreement in the Stortinge on the principle of decoupling. That's what's always been interesting: everyone's agreed on the principle, but there's been a very big disagreement about follow-up and practice. And there's been quite a distance between principles and practice. This has always been pointed out by the Christian People's Party, and there has always been something different with the Workers' Party's representatives. They are quite right in principle, and I can refer from many more settings than the representative Nybakk referred from now on, where, in principle, you have always been for abstinence. So to the extent and the pace. My reference was not to the setting that the representative Nybakk read from now on, it was opposite to the setting before. It was not directly on the vote, but on the fact that we were informed in the Chamber through several debates, not only in budgetary terms, but also in the context of the presentation, that when it came to the phasing-out of the business system, this was the last time they wanted to see further dwindling – it was both for representatives from the Labour Party and from the Right who expressed themselves – before they saw how things were going with other OECD countries. That's just what I'm referring to and nothing else. Otherwise, I see no need to drive any major polemics. On the contrary, I am very pleased that Marit Nybakk is now so busy showing how offensive the Workers' Party is in terms of dismantling. I very much welcome, with great interest and with great expectation, the Government's proposal for a strong and strong follow-up to OECD decisions, and hope that it will not be a minimum follow-up, but a maximum follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1567	No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2891]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1575	There is now to be a vote in the case No. 2-4.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1582	The President proposed that the Minister for Fisheries's statement at the Stortinget meeting on 3 May 2001 on illegalities in the fishing industry be recorded in the minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1589	A vote will be put to the vote on the proposal by Mr Jon Lilletun on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party sent over from the Odelstinget meeting on 26 April 2001: ‘The Government is asking the Government to carry out a thorough evaluation of the current system of unit allowances. Impacts on the agreed fisheries policy and settlement targets must be presented to the Storting before the possible extension of the unit quota system to boats below 28 metres.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1603	I must be allowed to say that I voted incorrectly, I should have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1610	That's what the President has noticed. The proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party is then 71 against 37 voices not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1617	During the debate, Einar Steensnæs has presented a proposal on behalf of Hilde Frafjord Johnson and himself. In the course of the debate, the proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal will then be replaced by the following: ‘The Government is advised to contact the political parties in Norway with a view to establishing an Institute for the Development of Democracy, for example. by model of the Institute for Multiparty Democracy in the Netherlands. [[IMD]] The main task of the Foundation should be to contribute to the development and strengthening of party organisations as well as development of competence in parties and parliaments, primarily in ODA-approved countries.’;» The President proposed that the proposal be sent to the Government without a motion of censure. - It's a note. The President will then propose that the Minister for Development's statement at the Grand Duchy's meeting on 24 April 2001 on development policy be recorded in the minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08.ana.ud1910e1702	The president noted that Odelsting's meeting was scheduled at 5 p.m. 6:00 p.m.
