ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e54	Honourable co-representatives! Former Stable Representative and State Council Sverre Walter Rostoft has passed away, 88 years old. Sverre Walter Rostoft was born in Glemmen in December 1912. After philological studies in the years 1935–37, he went out to work, first at the Uusimaa Workshop and later at Kristiansand's Mek. workshop where he was the CEO from 1945 to 1979. In the middle of his term of director, he completed his legal studies with a cand.jur.-grad in 1947. Sverre Walter Rostoft was elected to Stortinget from West Agder as the representative of the Right in the 1953 election. Between 1954 and 57, Rostoft was a member of the Forest, Watercourse and Industrial Committee. However, he withdrew from Stortinget after only a period of time to concentrate on his business tasks. Next to the work at Kristiansand's Mek. He was strongly involved in business organisations, with prominent positions in particular. The National Association of Mechanical Workshops and the National Association of Shipbuilders. Sverre Walter Rostoft was president of the Norwegian Industrial Association between 1962 and 1965. In addition to his commercial activities, he had a wide range of public functions, both regional and national. Sverre Walter Rostoft was knight of the 1st class of the Order of St. Olav. In 1965, Rostoft was again elected representative of West Agder, but he was not going to meet during this major period. The reason was that at the time of the formation of the government Borten was appointed Minister of Industry in the autumn of 1965, one of his duties was until the departure of the Borten government in 1971. Rostoft’s period in the Ministry of Industry was marked by considerable activity in many areas, not least at the beginning of what would become the Norwegian oil adventure. There were many who thought that Rostoft was optimistic when he decided at an early stage to set up his own oil department in the Ministry of Industry, but Rostoft was able to enjoy receiving the first oil from the Norwegian base. Rostoft was a man of cooperation, strongly characterized also by a bright and open Christianity. The cooperation was clearly indicated within the company that Rodoft was leading, and came as clearly as possible into Rosoft's work in the big business and government. He showed confidence and got confidence again – above all the party boundaries. At the same time, he was an insidious optimist with unerring belief in the future. All of this was characteristics that gave Sverre Walter Rosoft a very special position among all those who got the pleasure of knowing him. We remember Sverre Walter Rostoft for his work in grandeur and government and shine peace over his memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e67	The representative of Gunnar Schaug, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative Gard Folkvord on 22 and 23 May from the Socialist Left Group on the Permit of the Representative Øystein Djupedal from 23 May to 25 May to take part in the European Committee of the Nordic Council to Brussels and Paris On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Hordaland County Kari MangerFor South-Trondelag County Heidi K. Larsen
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e105	Kari Manger is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e117	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 3 hours and 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Work Party 80 minutes, Christian People's Party 30 minutes, Right 30 minutes, Advance Party 25 minutes, Center Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Trans-Political People's Party 10 minutes and independent representatives 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e128	This is a miracle, said Bronislaw Geremek, when a few days ago he was going to rent a panel of ten central European and Balkan ministers in a debate on the extension of NATO. The miracle of the former Polish Foreign Minister was that he represented NATO Poland at a meeting in Bratislava, where the host country and all the others involved are working to join the NATO alliance. 20 years ago this would have been quite unlikely, then we lived in the old world. The foreign debate in the Storting was largely about armaments and cold war. Ten years ago the breakup had begun, but no one knew the extent and where we were going. In June 1991 there was a foreign policy change in the Stortinget. President Gorbachev, president of the Soviet Union, had been visiting this country. Kjell Magne Bondevik asked Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland about the talks with the President provided ‘the basis for hope that there will be negotiations that provide a real opportunity for independence in the Baltic region’. Gro Harlem Brundtland replied that she and the president had different approaches to the question of self-reliance for these countries. This was ten years ago. The vulma in Yugoslavia, but no one knew about the bloodbath to come the next few years when Slovenia and Croatia said they were independent on June 25, 1991. Ten years ago, the topic of the debate on Sweden, Finland and Austria was not to join the European Community, but on 1 February 1993 they were in the process of negotiating membership, and two years later they were members of the European Union. Most people who took part in the debate that time are also present today, and it is good to read what we said ten or fifteen years ago. It'll make a little less shaky about what future city can live on. Then we understand that free trade is not something that is once and for all adopted, nor with the referendum in 1994. If we are to achieve freedom of action, we must avoid forced situations, and if we are to avoid forced situations, we must have the ability and the will to change with the changes around us. If we're going to take care of the changes around us, we need to understand what's going on. The announcement of Norway and Europe at the start of a new century, the attitude of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the hopeful debate here today should contribute to the most common understanding of what is happening around us. Now three Baltic countries are negotiating EU membership, and they want to join NATO. There are a total of 12 countries negotiating for EU membership, Turkey is a candidate, and five countries in the Western Balkans have turned towards the inner circle of European cooperation. I see in the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that the so-called inter-parties and the SV believe that Europe really consists of about 45 countries, and that these should be involved in order for us to be able to talk about a real European organisation. If a person uses this number as a starting point, and thinks that all the people I call instead, those in the long or the short queue, will be included, then those who are missing next to Russia, Ukraine and Belarus, will be e.g. Georgia, Azerbaijan, Armenia in the Caucasus, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan in Central Asia, and perhaps Moldova in our part of Europe. I agree with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party and the others that these are important countries and territories, but especially many initiatives I have not seen from these parties to increase cooperation with these countries. Probably they mean the same thing as we in the Labour Party, that well this is the important area, but it's not the ones that are closest to us. In a few years, the EU may have 20 or more members – maybe 27, maybe 30. The number is not the most important thing. I don't think the extension is a simple thing. There will be major difficulties both in the applicant countries and in the EU. The most important thing, however, is that cooperation takes into account the countries that want it, and that as many as possible have an economy and a political system that makes membership possible. It is not so important for Europe whether Norway is too full or not, but it is important for Europe and for us that cooperation in Europe is not replaced by conflict and nationalism. On 20 January 2000, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Vollebæk, etc.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘However, there can be no doubt that security and economic and social stability across a larger part of Europe will be of great importance to Norway as well. Therefore, it is in our interest that the enlargement process evolves in a way that does not create new undesired dividing lines. The government wants Norway to make an active contribution to this through the tools and opportunities available to us, in our bilateral cooperation with the candidate countries and in international organisations. Through this work, we take care of Norwegian foreign policy interests, while at the same time making our contribution to development in Europe.’ That's what this government is coming up with a new force, among other things. in the form of an action plan for EU candidate countries as presented in March this year. All our neighbouring countries are now part of the EU, except Russia and Iceland. The vast majority of our allies in Europe are involved or negotiating membership. Better coordination of policies in Europe could facilitate the development of a European partnership in which Russia is part. Therefore, there is no contradiction between stronger cooperation in Europe and closer cooperation with Russia. In relation to the United States, too, we have to assume that the EU is developing a more independent role. NATO could become an alliance between the United States and Europe. It is a challenge for us who are not in the EU. It is nevertheless a strength for us that we have a full political agreement that we should participate as far as we can in the security and defence cooperation in Europe. In practice, we need to coordinate our policies with those we deal most with, with whom we are allied and with which we share most of the issues – in short, those that are closest to us. None of the parties in the Foreign Affairs Committee believe that Norway should pursue a different policy than our closest. Everyone agrees that the challenges are to find good enough cooperation arrangements within the boundaries set by the public opinion. All also agree with the Government that there may be a particular case where Norway should claim a different view from the EU on the international arena. Everyone's also agreed that this shouldn't be the rule. The changes in the EU and in particular the extension will result in less time and space for non-participants between the EU and EU countries. This may make it harder for us to conclude new agreements or change those that have been entered into. The EEA Agreement is an example of the kind of intergovernmental cooperation that Norway is going to pursue with the EU. The EEA Agreement is a married child of the time it was created. In 1992/93 EFTA stood for 22 p.m. trade in the EU. We, who are that after Switzerland, Sweden, Finland and Austria were gone, stand for 4 pst. of trade with the EU. It is obvious that the EEA Agreement and the institutions were created for a much larger EFTA area than we have today, with Liechtenstein, Iceland and Norway. This is also the reason why the agreements barely tolerate major changes requiring a full approval round in the Member States. On the other hand, the EEA Agreement is binding and the rights and obligations are secured by the agreements. It turns out from most of the game that we have no alternative to the deal we have today. It is a challenge for Norway that our neighbouring countries are envoyed into close cooperation in areas that are not covered by the EEA Agreement or the other agreements we have concluded with the EU. This could be cooperation in the fields of justice, justice, the environment or economic policy. In particular, the challenges for us will be in the so-called informal cooperation that is not based on adopted laws or rules, but rather on coordination through meetings between politicians or experts. In the last few areas, it would be difficult to get a deal. Our answer must be to establish as close a contact as possible with the Member States and follow up with unilateral action as far as it is desirable and necessary. New challenges will also be faced by the fact that the European Parliament has gained greater power. The same may apply in relation to a more powerful Council of Ministers, as the EEA Agreement is an agreement for cooperation with the Commission. A minority on the Foreign Affairs Committee include: put forward proposals to make it easier for organisations and others in Norway to participate in EU work. We in the Labour Party believe that there are good ideas that are being put forward, and we expect the Government to continue working on these and other similar questions. However, the proposals are so limited that there is little room for finding other and better solutions to achieve the same objectives. Therefore I hope that the proposals can be sent to the Government for further follow-up without voting in Stortinget. The impact and impact of Norwegian attitudes are not only questions of legal law, but also of political will to listen and take care of Norwegian attitudes and interests. Such political will only builds up by balancing own demands against solidarity where a share of responsibilities and shouldes and views willingness to compromise. Therefore, Norwegian policies vis-à-vis the EU must be pursued and implemented in such a way that a meeting meets the will to take account of Norwegian views and Norwegian interests. One example is the requirement for EU compensation when Norway misses duty-free access for certain fish products to some of the applicant countries if they are to join the EU. There is no doubt that we have such a right. However, it becomes stagnant when the Central Party and the UK threaten to bring the EU to the WTO in order to obtain EU compensation, if the EU is going to prove difficult. I only record that the Centre Party and the SV will launch the WTO to ensure the free trade of cross-border food. In addition to demands and threats, I believe in cooperation on e.g. the extension. It doesn't smell good if, with our wealth, we make unilateral demands for economic compensation, when others start costly projects to lift the poorer parts of Europe. We need to be more careful about how others feel about us, and to initiate cooperation in many areas in order to get through our demands. I have seen that some people think that both the message and the setting take on important aspects of EU cooperation. That's probably right. On the other hand, this is not a notification of Norwegian membership of the EU. No one's actually going to discuss it. This is a report on Norway and Europe in the current situation. Then it's natural that a person takes note of the aspects of developments that will affect Norway when we're not members. I can see from some comments that some would like to have a commentary booklet on developments in the EU instead of a big message like the one we have received. But it wasn't meant to create a comment booklet. The notification and setting are intended as the basis for political action in Norway. Perhaps that is also why there is, after all, so little conflict in the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee. After this message, we can at least conclude that 'Other Member States' are no longer a political programme, but only a poem by Rolf Jacobsen, and that is perhaps the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e192	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e195	There was enthusiasm in the rapporteur's description of developments in Europe. I can understand that. Development has been very dynamic, very interesting. A lot has happened in a short time: conditions that you have not been able to predict, even the most optimistic, about getting closer integration between the European countries. The EU is working on two important processes that are now in parallel. One process is to extend the European Union to new countries. The second process is to bring about a stronger vertical deepening of cooperation, including: Economic and monetary union and the introduction of a single currency, the euro, are an important part. These two parallel processes have partly strong conflicting concerns to deal with. A stronger federal development in the EU has been called for in order to ensure the necessary governance when the number of countries within the European Union is developed as strongly as it has now. Both the Finnish Prime Minister, Paavo Lipponen, and the German Minister for Foreign Affairs, Joschka Fischer, have expressed this. The Nice Summit also underlined the need for a stronger decision-making capacity that has obviously had to go down on smaller countries. The second consideration is to ensure the necessary flexibility to be able to adapt as different countries in Europe as it does to enlargement. I would like to ask the representative of Blankenborg why this has not been such an important part to discuss for the Government in the European Communication, and why, as the rapporteur-in-Office, he has not given these important issues greater attention than he did in his speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e206	I did not focus on these questions because Norway is not a member of the EU. So we're not going to decide these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e211	In the recently held European Song Contest Norway ended up in a good final position, and there may be something symbolic about the song we performed, called «On my own» [[muttering in the hall]] The rapporteur stressed the importance of Norway’s position in relation to the European integration process as regards Norway’s ability to keep pace with the changes taking place in Europe. It is much more demanding than if we had been part of the decision-making processes in the EU. The NHO has made a contribution, ‘Towards a National European Strategy’, dated 9 May, and in this document the NHO demonstrates that there is a striking gap between the policies pursued in Norway, in particular economic policy, and what is happening in Europe elsewhere. In the NHO competitiveness survey for 2000, Norway appears to be the weakest of all European countries in the area of the market. We lack a Norwegian internal market strategy, as the report says. It also states: ‘In recent years, there has been a significant increase in the tax burden on business in this country. Norway is moving in the opposite direction of the EU.’ It would be interesting to hear the views of the rapporteur, since he represents the Government Party, whether there is at all any thinking in the Government about the relationship between the policies that are being pursued in Norway and the desire for Norway to be up to date with developments in Europe. The point is slightly sharpened by the fact that today we have the peculiar situation that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is at the same time party leader of the government party. The government seems to have two thoughts in its head at the same time, one on domestic policy, and one on foreign policy. It's affordable with two thoughts in your head, provided they're compatible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e227	I am somewhat uncertain as to what the representative on the pay side meant that it is ‘proper’ that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is President of the Labour Party. But besides, it is also strange that an actual question about competitiveness vis-à-vis EU countries is something that takes over the Government, because of course it is. Similarly, it is strange that one still manufactures the EU as a completely homogeneous area when it applies, for example: tax policy. It's not like that. Looking at the tax level around different EU countries, it varies greatly. This is why one also discusses the need for coordination within the EU in order to avoid tax competition. This is a question that we do not consider here with us, as we stand outside. However, on the simple question of whether there is a strategy – yes, the point of trying to achieve as close cooperation as possible with the EU is that we should try to ensure that Norwegian enterprises have competitive conditions that ensure employment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e232	No one is in any doubt about the views of the Labour Party's main spokesman today on the EU case itself, and then we are talking about membership. One must expect that the main speaker of the party wishing to join Norway in the EU has a view of the most prominent developments facing the EU today. It is about the growing democratic deficit of the EU, and it is also about the fact that Einar Steensnæs was involved, which is the trend towards a federalist union. And it is arrogant to reject it because the notification was not intended as a comment booklet, or that Norway is not a member of the EU and therefore should not settle these matters. Chancellor Schröder has said that he wants an EU government, because he has seen that the EU is now taking on more and more of the tasks of the nation states – single currency, common laws, common market, common military strength, just to name a few. Schröder has seen that the EU needs a political superstructure for that reason. A debate on this subject cannot reject the Workers’ Party’s Chief Spokesman by saying that Norway is not a member of the EU and should not be involved in and decide to do so. So my question to the Labour Party's Chief Spokesman is this: if developments in the EU continue to move in the same federalist direction, it could then affect the Labour Party and Mr. The view of Blankenborg on Norwegian membership of the EU? It must be possible to answer without saying that the message was not intended to be an EU-description catalogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e244	Sometimes I wonder what kind of cooperation the representative Jamessen is used to, who thinks people mean something other than what they say. But we actually mean what we say, and we believe that Norway should build its cooperation with the EU on intergovernmental agreements, with the EEA agreements as a cornerstone. It's in the message, it's in the configuration, that's what's set up from the Working Party's side. The point is just to find out that there are a lot of developments that we can't do entirely, so we have to get a free hand to make the necessary agreements or whatever it might be, in the future. However, the Labour Party does not propose any change in Norway’s relationship with the EU with regard to membership. It stands firm, and that's the meaning. And that is why we can discuss what Mr Schröder thinks about what is happening in the European Union, which we can discuss in-house developments in individual countries in the European Union. However, when we have a message about Norway's relationship with the EU and the situation for us when we are not a member, and what kind of impact the EU's development has on Norway as a non-member, it will be a little derailment if we put too much emphasis on discussing the internal development of the EU, which is something that does not directly affect us. It fits badly in the election campaign design of the Center Party. Unfortunately, I believe that this debate is best served by a coffee cup, and not when we are discussing Norway’s relationship with the EU as a foreign country – as everyone in the United Kingdom says Norway is still going to be this foreign country, but with special relations with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e253	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e257	Should Norway apply for membership of the European Union? It is this central issue that has been addressed to the Norwegian people through two referendums, and which also has the power to engage local communities, individuals, organisations, the media and the political environment at all levels that hardly have any other issue in modern Norwegian history. When the Grand Duchy is now discussing Norway and Europe at the turn of the century, this question is not on the political agenda. No batches have been asked to raise the question again – at least not directly. It's not so surprising. The Norwegian people gave an answer in 1994, and nothing indicates that the people have changed their mind, rather the opposite. The polls regularly taken on Norway’s relationship with the EU have recently shown increasing resistance to the idea of notifying Norway into the European Union. This takes the consequence of – or does it? I think that Haakon Blankenborg's nut, almost arrogant answers point to the opposite, and that it reflects a kind of awareness that there is a majority in this Chamber who are indifferent to the Norwegian people in view of the European question. And when we get so far a misrepresentation of the advantages and disadvantages of the current form of association, how important, but problematic, processes in the EU are not being discussed, and where the case rapporteur does not want to discuss it either because Norway is not a member of the EU and therefore this does not concern us, I just have to report a deep disagreement. For some of us, the process is ongoing and assesses how Norway’s interests can relate to the European Union, both in terms of Norway’s development and in terms of how the European Union and the European reality are shaped. The Workers' Party's response here today seems to be purely tactically justified. In fact, I am responding to the tone that has already been put forward at the beginning of this debate, a kind of understanding that positions other than those which the Government and the majority of the Labour Party had to have in this matter are not well-founded and therefore do not deserve attention, time and consideration. I think, for my part, that if the government really thought that the best thing for Norway was to notify the country into the European Union, it should actually have expressed this in principle. But it doesn't. Then it must be perceived as purely strategic, tactically justified, because it is seen that the will of the people is not in the extension of what is the government's priorities. The solution proposed by the Christian People's Party, together with the Left, in 1994 – no to membership, yes to the EEA – has proved more arduous than thought by both most political parties, NHO, LO, No to the EU and the European Movement. Today, the solution of the Christian People's Party gathers broad support in the Norwegian people, even though it is frowning on both here in the Stortinget, in some newspaper offices, in the Government Quartet and thus with our honourable opponents in the Stortinget. However, it has been resigned and understood that this is the will of the people, and it should preface strategy and debate on European issues. Of course, the Christian People's Party is clearly pleased to have its policies and assessments confirmed in this way. However, I can assure you that there is neither a hunch, nor a simple notion of the political realities resulting from such a position and such a situation for Norway. We are fully aware that Norway’s position involves both significant benefits that we emphasise and disadvantages that we have to include in this calculation. And I think it must be right when we have a Europe message, where Part II is a summary of our experiences in our cooperation with the EU, that these accounts are presented with both benefits and disadvantages. I understand that the Workers' Party does not want to talk about the disadvantages, but we do. I think it would be very regrettable if the interest in the European debate were to shrink and fade away, just because it is not relevant to re-submit proposals for membership of the European Union. In this way, we neglect an important opportunity both to establish a status and to put in place a completely necessary strategy for the major challenges facing Norway in European policy, both in relation to the EU and to pan-European issues in general. Norway has always had strong links with the rest of Europe. The Christian People's Party therefore agrees with the Government that this commits us as a nation to active action and to broad cooperation with the other European countries to meet important challenges facing Europe at the turn of the century. These challenges can be listed: building cooperation between young, vulnerable democracies in Europe in order to succeed in the sustainable, environmentally friendly development of education and research cooperation and further development of cultural cooperation to combat poverty and economic and trade cooperation; So it's not just about issues that are confined to trade, economics and security policy, it's these issues that we'd rather hear about. No, the challenges are far more fanciful. The aim must be to strengthen both human rights, democracy, historical and cultural ties and economic development in Europe, in order to ensure peace and stability. And here Norway is going to take an active part. The Communication provides a number of good descriptions of these and other challenges and puts them in a context of European development to date. This is readable, and it's a sensible description that gives insight. But the Christian People's Party, along with the other centre parties, also points out clear weaknesses in the message, which I have had in the past. The government describes the vertical deepening of cooperation within the EU without discussing the problems it creates, both for the advancement of EU enlargement to the east and in relation to the sovereignty and need for adaptation of each Member State. The pan-European cooperation organisations have, in our opinion, also received a far too sumptuous and low-yielding description in the communication. And the voluntary organisations, like other non-governmental actors, have not received at all the publicity and attention that is commensurate with the importance of these organisations in pan-European cooperation and in cooperation with the EU in different areas of society. This also applies to the strong involvement of the trade union movement in European cooperation. But it covers everything from culture, education, professional and political cooperation, industrial cooperation, etc. The EEA Agreement has played an important role both politically and economically. Politically, the EEA Agreement has provided many voters with a real alternative to a hesitant yes or to a questioning 'no' position, thus contributing to a 'no' majority in the 1994 referendum. The EEA Agreement has granted a very important access for Norwegian products and services to the EU internal market. Despite all the gloomy predictions about the inadequacy and limited shelf-life of the EEA Agreement, it has proved to be both viable and viable. The Government also states that ‘Since the EEA Agreement entered into force on 1 January 1994, basic Norwegian interests have been properly protected’. And in the NHO’s latest European document, ‘Towards a National European Strategy?’, the organisation makes a similar summary, while providing for a number of practical instructions for further follow-up and concreteisation. It is a document that I would also recommend for further study and evaluation both in terms of the experience gained with the EEA Agreement and in terms of the individual input and concreteities that should follow the EEA Agreement. This description of the EEA Agreement provided by the Government and the contribution of the NHO is quite different from the description of the misery that has consistently shaped the political debate in front of the 1994 referendum. The notification addresses two problem areas in the case of Norwegian trade interests in relation to the EEA Agreement, namely fish and gas. These relationships have been commented in detail by the Christian People's Party and the Left in their comments. We agree that the fisheries sector represents a challenge for Norway when the EU is extended to countries where we are currently exporting without customs barriers. Nevertheless, there is reason to point out that Norway has had a significant increase in fishing exports to the EU area under the EEA Agreement despite the existing customs duties. And in any case, Norway can claim compensatory measures against the EU under the provisions of the WTO Agreement. As far as gas is concerned, the government does not bring any new issues into the case in relation to those we knew about, which were discussed in 1994 prior to the referendum. However, it must be appropriate to point out that Norway’s position as an oil and gas supplier in Europe makes a significant contribution to national income, while at the same time being able to enter into negotiations in order to ensure vital Norwegian interests. I, for my part, miss a number of more offensive and active attitudes on the part of the Government when such issues are discussed in the Communication. The right of reservation, or the right of veto that we would like to call it, is an important negotiated mechanism in the EEA Agreement that Norway has not yet benefited from. We agree that the right of veto must be used with due regard and with due priority in order to avoid unduly weakening the EEA Agreement. At the same time, we should apply the right of reservation where basic Norwegian interests and values are affected. The right of reservation has been negotiated to be used. Therefore, the centre parties were also willing to use this right in the matter of the food make-up directives. And we'll use it again if necessary, if for example. the issue of taking patents on life forms would be promoted for Stortinget and demanded implementation in the EEA Agreement. We are pleased that the Government has complied with our wish for an annual notification of the EEA Agreement that can be debated in Stortinget. We believe that there is a need for concrete measures that could further improve information, enhance transparency and provide the necessary knowledge to politicians, business, the media and individual Norwegian citizens. I took note of Mr Blankenborg's positive reference to our proposals, and I refer to the proposals No. 1, 2, 3 and 4, which I take up on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. Europe is an exciting continent. Both economically and politically, it evolves with great power and dynamism. Norway shall take an active part in this development. Of course, the EU plays an important and central role in this picture. That is why we have also linked ourselves to the EU in a number of ways, not only through the EEA Agreement, but also later through supplementary agreements such as Schengen, through police and judicial cooperation and subsequently also to the ESDP. After Lisbon, the EU has also focused on more process-oriented forms of cooperation outside the ordinary cooperation bodies and formal procedures that have been followed until now. This, of course, creates new challenges for us. Our involvement and our interests require close follow-up and development of mechanisms that allow a Norwegian link to these new forms of cooperation. Of course, we must also accept the limitations that our EEA status places on EU cooperation. At the same time, we must make maximum use of the close and good cooperation we have with the EU, both formally and informally, to ensure Norwegian interests. Norway has traditionally placed great emphasis on cooperation, both through the EU and through international and regional bodies such as the UN, the OSCE, NATO, the EU, the Council of Europe, the Nordic Council, the Barents Council and the Baltic Sea Council. This is not just because we have to stick to the rescue plans that had to pass, just as many think we are in the international company. No, these organisations have had a very significant impact on the development of a stable and cooperating Europe through concrete, practical efforts over many years. In the event of a strong commitment by these organisations, Norway may make use of its experience, competence and resources and thus also maintain an interesting international network. Norway is not isolated in the international community; we are actively participating in both global and European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e323	Einar Steensnæs has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e328	The most exciting description of the value of the EEA Agreement is certainly the draft of the government statement for a new central government, I assume. This must be the basis on which all these parties build their European policies. We are together with the Christian People's Party in three quarters of what Steensnæs said when he was only warm in the pulpit. Three quarters met the challenges facing Norway in the EU. The Labour Party is united in what has been said. I thought it was a strength for Norway that we have such a broad deal, which actually covers all the parties. Even the Centre Party and SV are rather weak in their use of terms on the EEA Agreement. This must be a strength. But it sounds like a problem for Steensnæs that the Workers' Party is in agreement with the Christian People's Party on the basis on which we are going to build our European policy. This may not be the case – but everyone can have a bad day in between. I therefore ask briefly whether it is not such that this position is a strength and a step forward, in the sense that we have a common platform for the policy we are going to pursue in relation to Europe. And perhaps, sir. Stone snow could also only add a little, when the Christian People's Party criticises so strongly that the role of the OSCE and the Council of Europe has not been given much greater importance. It's been six months since the parties have had the opportunity to embroider this and explain to the others what one actually means. But there will only be short sentences that the Government has not written this. The Christian People's Party could have developed an alternative document. There have been so many alternative messages over the years that an alternative document on this should have been available from December to June.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e337	There's a lot of enthusiasm for one and the other. If I was to reflect in any way an enthusiasm for the EEA Agreement, it is thus balanced, as I also stated that the EEA Agreement does not, of course, satisfy all our need for cooperation with the EU, but an important part of it. I am pleased that Haakon Blankenborg is already preparing for a new central government to see the light of day, and that some of what I presented here today could form the platform for a new central government policy on relations with the EU and Europe. I am also, of course, happy that the Workers' Party agrees with three quarters, as he said, of what I said. It would have been very interesting to hear what quarter he had objections and nuances to. I had the impression that the relationship to the EEA Agreement was within the quarter where Haakon Blankenburg had to take reservations. And that's where I think the message becomes unbalanced, because it underlines the importance of the EEA Agreement, but all of a sudden it is inadequate. In my view, this is a wrong description, because the EEA Agreement has never intended to capture all of our need for cooperation with the EU. But it focuses substantially on the internal market, and there it does the job. It is dynamic, it is followed up, but we realise that it is not enough to meet our need for cooperation with the EU. That's why we've also been positive about concluding supplementary agreements. I think this document is a good document. I have expressed it, but I have also criticised it, because it does not address the problematic aspects of cooperation with the EU as it is now developing. I think that Haakon Blankenborg could also offer greater attention in his post and in his comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e346	It is true that the EEA Agreement is a common basis for many of us here in the Chamber. In this way, it's kind of a least common multiple. What is the difference between the Christian People's Party and the other parties is that for the Christian People's Party, a minimum common multiple is the ideal for our policies. The other people think that's the solution we have to take. But the question I'm going to raise against Steensnæs is what Blankenborg also asked, and that Steensnæs did not answer, namely, about the criticisms of the Christian People's Party regarding the pan-European perspective. I am clearly of the opinion that there are two organisations on the European continent who are head and shoulders above all others in terms of importance, and that is NATO and the EU. This is confirmed by the fact that new democracies are looking for it. Now it is that the Christian People's Party is constantly talking about the pan-European perspective – also here – and is pointing it out as a weakness that in the Communication there is ‘lack of clarity and emphasis on the pan-European cooperation organisations’. They even criticise the communication for a lack of ‘clearness of analysis’ when it is not possible to distinguish between the real pan-European forums and the EU. My questions to Steensnæs are: This criticism he is making here, what practical consequences does he draw from it? What political action does the message not point to, he wants to take? Yes, in short, is his criticism anything but words? Does it lead to other policies, or is it just some sort of excuse that he doesn't want to go into what's real: full membership of the European Union?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e355	Only maps of the EEA Agreement. I'm probably not comfortable describing the EEA Agreement as a kind of least common multiple. It's probably more correct – because I'm a mathematician – to call this a major common goal for what we want in cooperation with the EU. It's not. I have repeatedly tried to explain to us that the EEA Agreement is important for access to the internal market. It regulates the possibilities for Norwegian export companies to trade with the EU without the customs barriers set up by the EU. However, in other areas, the EEA Agreement has not intervened, and therefore it must be supplemented by other agreements, and it has been considered by the Christian People's Party. We have been against something, which we have accepted that the majority has adopted, and other agreements we have actively worked for. This applies, inter alia, to: ESDP, as well as research and training cooperation. I recognise without further ado that the EU and NATO are the two major cooperation bodies in different fields that constitute important cooperation between the European countries. However, that does not mean that these two bodies are simply evaluating all the important aspects of European cooperation – I believe it would be to ignore the important issues that we need to deal with in relation to the Eastern European countries, and in particular to Russia. I'm surprised that the message, for example. not in a much stronger sense, it is important that we ensure that Russia is involved in Western cooperation through economic, political and cultural follow-up, thereby ensuring the stability and democratic development of Europe. Similar views could also be developed towards other countries that are currently not members of the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e362	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e365	I think that the last answer was quite interesting – not clarifying, but interesting – because it made it clear that the criticism that Steensnæs makes in the vote about the lack of a pan-European perspective does not lead him to any political conclusions at all. There is no other political approach to be taken; there is no new policy to be drawn up. I think that is also true in many ways, because not least the EU has an active policy towards Eastern Europe as an important policy area. This is something NATO has to do with it. Therefore, this very reference of the pan-European in many ways becomes quite empty. We all recognize that it's an important part of the whole problem, but when it's presented as criticism without any kind of follow-up, it doesn't make any more of it. I think the vice-president of the committee, Blankenborg, had an interesting approach when he started the debate by just focusing on how the debate had gone for us ten years ago. It tells us that there has been a lot of happening on the European continent in these years, and that it is not easy to see how further development is going to go. It tells us that it is important to have freedom of action, to have the opportunity to re-analyse developments, to take new action if the situation calls for it. I see that today there is to be a proposal which is precisely about not taking new action. This means that Norway is giving up a freedom of action that you could otherwise have. I think that the message and the position we have today to address is a useful review of the challenges facing Norway. We are spectators of a vital process on the European continent, where we are not part of one of the two crucial focus points, namely the European Union. That means that we have to be spectators of things that many people would have an ambition to be in. After the referendum, the Norwegian European strategy has been quite clear. On the one hand, we have sought to participate in as much cooperation in the European area as it is possible to imagine: EEA, Schengen, veterinary cooperation, judicial cooperation, security and foreign policy cooperation. Yes, we want to be in everything – except full membership of the EU. The second component is that we actively agree that everyone else on the European continent should be involved in EU cooperation, just not Norway. There is a clear strategy, and it is confirmed in many ways in the setting that is here today. Whether it administers something, or whether it only confirms a situation, is not so important. In any case, it forms a common basis. I believe in many ways that the significance of this message could have been more than just to note this common ground, because it would have been interesting to think a little bit about what situation Norway could have been in if we had chosen differently. On the right, it makes it clear in the wording that our objective is membership of the European Union, but we recognise that the time has not come to raise this question in the form of a proposal. In this area, there are some uncertainties in the public debate. I see even insightful commentators who say that the Right on the one hand sees the need for a new membership debate, but on the other hand they believe that the membership debate should not come before the people a mature for it. The concept of'membership debate' seems problematic to me here, because what the right is doing is saying on the one hand, 'Yes, we have a vision, a wish for where Norway is going to sit. We believe that this should be discussed on an ongoing basis, and we should check whether or not the problems facing Norway can be resolved by other means. I believe in many ways that much of the answer in this message is that there are no adequate solutions to a few important challenges, such as: the security and foreign policy challenge, without full Norwegian membership. But on the other hand, the question is, when do you draw the consequences of such a debate, in the form that you raise the very question of application again? There is a completely different type of Europe debate. I fully agree that the time for this has by no means come. But that doesn't mean that you don't have a vision of where you want Norway located, and that we have to be able to take inwards that there are some things that, with today's form of association, you simply don't find a proper solution. The last thing we have is a little bit of a problem taking inwards. I understand that it is that someone believes that it is not even to take the people's judgment seriously if you are willing to admit that it is. But I think it's important to do it for the clarity of the mind. Our experience with the EEA Agreement is good. The EEA Agreement is a vital part of our European policy. It is therefore important to build up under it and, if possible, to strengthen it. It's important to have legal equality. But there are three problems associated with it. One is the democratic deficit, because it is quite obvious that Norway could have had greater influence if we had opted for it differently. The second issue is that a number of new EU cooperation initiatives are on the one hand finding their solution in the EEA area, and on the other hand outside the EEA area. The last element is not easy to get involved in. The third issue is this very specific, but at the same time important, the question: what do we do with the possibilities of Coast Norway in terms of full market access for Coast Norway's products? At my discretion, this is three weaknesses in which it is simply not easy to find a proper solution. As far as this is concerned, however, there has been quite no conflict. That's what I think tells us a very important thing. It is simply that both Norway and the EU have systems that are similar. It has been easy to link our democratic market-economy systems together in the EEA Agreement. Other solutions could have been chosen in specific areas, but this is the case in Storting's daily activities as well. The point is that the solutions are within an acceptable framework. The population will often see that they find both major decisions and EU decisions that they disagree with, but that is the case in a democratic society. One of the most important things about the EEA Agreement is that it has solidly killed the idea of a different country, the country that has different political objectives and mechanisms than the rest of Europe. Thus, during this six-year period, the ideological argument of the no-majority of 1994 has also been firmly upheld. It is quite interesting that it was only recently that the question of the possibility of vetoing or not for the first time seriously came up. It tells us that this has been a pretty conflict-free area. So a little bit about the challenges we're facing. I believe that our most important challenge is to get involved in decision-making processes in Europe. It's very demanding, where some of the mechanisms have gone down. However, it is clear that the need for Norway, both in the official diplomatic environment and in the political environment, for contact with all possible environments outside Europe is resource-intensive, probably more resource-intensive than Norway can manage. I think therefore that this is of the weaknesses that are embedded in the system. It is not possible to solve well, but at least we have to put down as much pressure and work to solve the problems as possible. In this way, I am willing to consider the proposals that the Christian People's Party and the Left have in the setting, although they do not move anything fundamentally on this particular issue. The second important challenge that we have to face, and which we have to come back to, is a proper strategy to solve the problems of the coast of Norway in relation to Europe's markets. Like Blankenborg, I have noticed the interesting point that the Senterpartiet and SV call on the WTO. The last major issue, which I am not given the opportunity to address in this context, is the challenges that security and foreign policy cooperation is calling for. We're not going to have any illusions that the transatlantic relations are not determined at the intersection of Brussels and Washington.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e400	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e403	The right has given its full support to the action plan presented by the Government to strengthen contact with the applicant countries of central and eastern Europe – our closest neighbours, our neighbourhood team, so to speak – both to contribute to social and political development and to qualify them for membership. However, now is the problem with the Right that they want to finance this support to the neighbourhoods by cutting back on aid to the poorest countries. Does the representative Petersen think that this is right, even if we look at the global situation? Furthermore, in this context, the paradox for the Right must be that it violates the role that the EU now has globally, not least in terms of aid and trade and conflict resolution in the international community. The EU is today perhaps the most important foreign policy player in the world and was now among others. hosting the Great UN Conference on the Least Developed Countries. It was also the EU that put in place a plan and sent representatives to North Korea when the Bush administration introduced the years in relation to the negotiations on a nuclear agreement. Is it the case that, to put it mildly, in the case of aid to the poorest countries and in the case of global warming, the right restraint is linked to the role that the EU has now taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e413	I must honestly admit that I'm not quite sure if I got the point, but I think it was just about like this: since we can't disagree on Europe issues, we're going to have a little unhelp debate instead. And I understand that we can do that. To that it's saying that we've had too many rigid distinctions in relation to how we can spend our money. I think it has been unreasonable that it has not been possible to use Norwegian funds in e.g. North-West Russia because they have happened to be available in another budget that has not been accepted by the DAC. We disagree. I think it would have been reasonable to use them, and therefore I am willing to see things in a larger context than the rigid accounting that some people think is important. With regard to the issue of involvement in the Third World, few in this room have been faced with as much an open, liberal trade regime as the Right, and with the question of democratic, market economy reforms. I believe very strongly that development in the third world depends to a very large extent on the fact that these two components are coming into place. In particular, an open, fair world trade, I think, is very important – much more important than the very issue of allocation. There's something wonderful about Norwegian debate, that you think you can measure the exposure in the third world in the number of dollars you give. But if you first focus on the number of dollars, you'll see that the unhelp budget that the Right comes up with is also very good in international terms for those who want to have high appropriations. That's why this is an important tool for us, but it has to be combined with the other and more important components. So the reality is, this is going very well together.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e422	I will return to these pan-European cooperation bodies because both the representative Blankenborg and the representative Petersen complained that our criticism is not followed up by instructions as to what different policies should be pursued as a consequence of this emphasis. I have to say that it is not good to know whether it is a different strategy or policy, as expressed by this lack of description of, for example. The role of the Council of Europe and the OSCE, in order to take two of the most important pan-European cooperation organisations that are not subject to any particular discussion in the notification. This analysis, this meaning, had to form the basis for such an assessment. For the Christian People's Party, it's important to see our international arena in context, that is, as composed of multiple platforms. That is why both the Council of Europe, the OSCE, the Baltic Council, the Nordic Council and the Arctic Council, to mention a few more, are part of the arena on which Norway can play in the international context – and of course I have not forgotten the UN in this regard. That's why I express on behalf of the Christian People's Party that this is a collection of arenas that together have given Norway a place in the international arena. We are not isolated, we can play an active role both in Europe and in the world for others. So we are not in such a hopeless position as someone tries to describe it as. I have noticed that both the Labour Party and the Right stress the EU and NATO so strongly that it seems that the other cooperation platforms are coming into the shadow. Then I would like to ask: How does Petersen see that the Council of Europe and the OSCE will develop – of importance to Norway – in the future, as the EU is expanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e431	I must say that I think we should hold on to the fact that it is NATO and the European Union that are the two most important cooperation bodies on the European continent. It's basically that recognition that I think it's important to get underlined here. I do not disagree with Mr Steensnæs that the other organisations can also play a role and will have a role to play. In the early phase of the Kosovo conflict, the OSCE also had an important role, even though it was the EU that came in when the conflict was to be resolved, as Steensnæs probably remembers. So I'm not saying it doesn't matter. My point is just that I want to warn the Christian People's Party against almost presenting it as a kind of alternative to what is the real thing. But what's interesting is exactly what Steensnæs points out, that the government has no further policy approach to propose. To that extent, I do not have any further policy approach to propose. But the point here is that Steensnæs, who then believes that the government has not been good enough in its analyses in this area, also has nothing to suggest. Yes, he even asks me what I think he should suggest! I think that might be an expression of the situation we're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e440	The representative Jan Petersen is the leader of a party that supports the EEA Agreement, but at the same time clearly sees that this type of agreement is very problematic for Norwegian democracy. It is at least uplifting to be able to establish it. Much of Norwegian legislation is being moved out of the country through the EEA Agreement. It's a fact. But this state is not getting any better, it is getting worse if Norway says yes to EU membership. It's quite obvious. Norway will then be subject to an even greater degree of EU policy, and the democratic deficit will increase. No matter how the representative Petersen asks the question, he doesn't rock the problem himself. So my question is: how does the representative Petersen feel that the problem can be resolved democratically in the EU and also in relations between the EU and Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e447	The democratic answer to this question is Norwegian membership of the EU. We were very clear when we adopted the EEA Agreement – the right pointed out that here we had a problem that has one adequate solution, and that is Norwegian membership. This is because Norway is a full participant in this cooperation. That in any cooperation there is a ta and g situation, that you are not always in majority, is a matter which arises in principle in all democratic bodies, but that is not an argument that this is not democratic. Where the problem arises is when we are not full participants in the process, and the right was quite clear on that when we adopted the EEA Agreement in its time. I did not use the expression'very problematic' for democracy. I was talking about 'the democratic deficit', and I was just talking about what I have just described. So it's important to hold on to the fact that this has gone very well. The EEA Agreement is completely uncontroversial in Norwegian policy, simply because what we have received from legislation under the EEA Agreement works well in Norwegian society. Everyone doesn't agree on everything, but neither is it in the decisions that Stortinget makes. This is an expression that we're two very similar systems. It must be a cross of thought for John Dale that the development over the last six years has taken the complete break of this idea of a different country. It is a term that has essentially gone out of Norwegian political vocabulary, with the exception of some small enclaves remaining. But the reality is that this is going very well and has gone well in practice because we're equal systems. And should we not then stop having this anxious relationship with that out there and rather have greater ambitions on behalf of the Norwegian nation and say yes, in this we are going to participate?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e456	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e459	The progress party is well pleased with the situation with the EEA Agreement. We feel that there are trends sometimes to exaggerate problems that are thought to exist, but we actually think that the situation and our relationship with the European Union and Europe are satisfactorily addressed in the way we have had it for a long, long time. There are many advantages for us through the EEA Agreement, with access – largely – to the internal market and the four freedoms, which make us part of Europe. The experience with this agreement is in our opinion good. There are some who claim that there is a major problem that there is no influence that membership would have on the internal processes and decisions taken in the EU. I would at least argue that this too is an excessive problem. It is relatively rare to invoke any curious interest in decisions having an effect on the EEA territory and the Agreement. There have been very few examples of this. On many of the practical issues, there is certainly every reason to believe that many of those working within the EU are as qualified as our own potential experts to make reasonable decisions, and when there are so many of them, there is also reason to trust some decisions, which we – quite rightly – must follow once the directives have been adopted. But in the areas covered by the EEA Agreement, we do not see that there are really any major problems affecting the Norwegian people. We will therefore also stress that we see no need for a new round in the next enlargement period on the issue of EU membership. I will then be allowed to address the proposal submitted on this matter. We see no reason for it to start a new debate, especially when we are faced with a distressing feeling that many of those who from time to time are very dissatisfied with the fact that we are not a member of the European Union, actually either have professional interests in this or more personal political interests. That our diplomats are not satisfied with the state of things, I see, it's no fun not to be there within that profession, or for our very, very eager foreign minister not to attend meetings with the big countries and to participate in determining Europe's development. I understand this very well, but it is not something that really affects the Norwegian people and people most in this country that someone is not allowed to be with where they personally want to be with. For Norway, therefore, the situation is satisfactory as it is and does not want a new split debate and struggle in Norway for membership of the European Union. This may also apply when we look at a part of the EU’s development – the integration that is now taking more and more rapid steps, is actually full speed towards the United States of Europe. All the things that characterize a country, a nation, become more and more part of the EU. The introduction of a monetary union, the introduction of more and more common defence and security policies, the introduction of EU voting systems with more and more majority decisions, the clear signals from Schröder and the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Germany about the transformation of the Commission into a kind of government, etc. – all the steps that take place are heading towards the United States of Europe. It is a matter which, at least, I do not think is relevant for Norway in any context to be involved in the next enlargement period. There has been a lot of talk within the EEA Agreement about the so-called veto right. We are aware that it is there formally, but I would like to state that it must be completely exceptional in order for it to be used, and I have not seen any cases so far that have come to treatment, where it should be relevant. The fact that there are different views on different directives is not enough to put all or large parts of the EEA Agreement at risk. With regard to the enlargement of the EU to the east, and some general points of view, I have no problem saying that the Progress Party shares the views of the majority of the comments on pages 6.7 and 8 in the vote, which is an estimate of a good deal of different circumstances. We want to fully join them, and we have no problem there with belonging to the majority. As far as I am concerned about integration in the EU, I am somewhat concerned that what was very much promoted some years ago, the principle of subsidiarity, has not really been followed up. It is alarming to note that the EU is now interfering in all policy areas and is increasingly expanding its transnational activity. One of the main reasons for the creation of the EU is to ensure peace and sustainability in Europe through strong integration. But it can be a danger if you go too fast and this is not anchored in the population. It is a little alarming that measurements show that the population in some countries is deeply concerned and disagrees with the strong integration that is taking place. That is why we think it is a little sad that, in the context of several of these great new treaties, there has not been a referendum in the countries to get a democratic anchor and to be sure that this is something that the peoples agree with. If the tops of a society continue to take decisions that people do not agree with, it can cause significant problems. We are also pleased that we have been able to enter into agreements other than the EEA Agreement itself. I would like to mention, in particular, Schengen cooperation, with a common border control system and improved measures against illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings and the fight against organised crime. It is also nice in our system that we can cooperate in addition to the EEA Agreement in the areas serving Norwegian interests. Schengen cooperation is such an area, which we hope will lead to a successful fight against organised crime, and that, as the Dublin Convention also enters, we can gain a much better and more stringent control of illegal immigration by means of the other Schengen countries. I know that many in this Chamber disagree with this and fear that there will be a wall around Europe to stop illegal immigration. The Progress Party is pleased that we are getting much stronger control at the entrance to Europe in order to bring it down in reality illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. We also have a positive view of enlargement in terms of security policy and defence cooperation, but I would like to stress that for us it is still so that our relationship with the United States and NATO is the most important thing. However, this will affect Hans J. Røssorde more in an article later. There is one weakness – at least – in the EEA Agreement, which also included Jan Petersen, namely that of Coast Norway, i.e. our market access for processed fish products, as fish and agriculture are excluded from the EEA Agreement. However, there are also openings to expand, and we believe – and have argued for a long time – that it should have been possible to examine whether there could be a chance of improving the conditions for our processed fish products against allowing better market access for processed agricultural products by the other way. Connecting these two is like banishing in the church, as it's called, but we can't help but understand that it would be an advantage for the Norwegian population to have increased competition in the agricultural and food sectors. The need for cheaper food is something that many people are concerned about, and getting competition in that area to bring down prices and get more efficiency would benefit the Norwegian people. So the possibility of better market access for processed fish products on the EU market and a much greater degree of long-term security is absolutely worth it some claims might be the price of reducing our import protection. We think the most important thing is to produce good products at a reasonable price for the Norwegian people. We want liberalisation, and we would like to see an attempt to extend the EEA Agreement to fish products and agricultural products. And I think it's a little sad that there's been a lid on that debate from most other parties, and it's particularly sad when you're talking about openness and in connection with the WTO about increasing free trade and opening up the markets more. At least we could start by trying to include these areas in the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e489	Carl I. Hagen has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e494	I understood it so that the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen tried to get a line here. It could have been tempting to give him my reply, but that is probably not the case. It was in any case useful to hear the views of the Party of Advancement. I agree with the description of the EEA Agreement, and that is to a large extent for the same type of assessment as the Christian People's Party. I took note of the proposal that Carl I. Hagen is now making in connection with this debate. It is uncertain how it should be perceived – not in content and in relation to the voting theme, but in relation to what it expresses on behalf of the Progress Party and their policies. After Anne Enger Lahnstein now abdicates as a no queen, it's interesting to ask ourselves if we've now got one who's intended to rise the throne when it's now available, in other words whether we've got a principle no party in addition to those we already know. I would like Hagen to elaborate more on what kind of policy this reflects, because the Progress Party has previously held different views. But I'd like to challenge Carl I. Hagen to say more if it's now such that the Progress Party has put itself on a principle no-line, and whether he has ambitions to rise the throne that is now available after the no-quen Anne Enger Lahnstein abddied.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e505	I have no ambitions to participate in any competition for any free thrones. I have more than enough to take care of what I am doing right now. With regard to the position of the Advance Party, I will read from our batch program: ‘The party takes note that the Norwegian people have said no to Norwegian membership of the EU. If Norway is to apply for membership again, it is first necessary to hold a referendum on whether such an application should be submitted. Such a referendum is not relevant unless there are marked changes of opinion in the Norwegian public opinion. The Progress Party believes that there has not been such a clear and lasting change of opinion, in which case the Norwegian people’s no to EU membership from 1994 must be respected. A new EU fight now will only help to split the nation and paralyze the political effort to improve the conditions for most people in Norway. The Progress Party will free its elected representatives to work on both the Yes and the No side. The Progress Party will, of course, vote unitedly for the decision that the people will make by means of a possible new referendum.’ So the progress point doesn't have a no or a yes point of view. We set free our elected representatives and everyone else in the party. That's because we're making elections for the Storting to actually be involved in making decisions in this room. The question of any membership shall not be decided by this Chamber; it shall be decided by the people in a referendum. That's why. In addition, we have discussed and evaluated the situation, and we cannot see that there is any reason to open up a new debate on membership and referendum in the next major period. We have proposed this because there has been a great deal of debate in the Norwegian people, and we are not quite sure what the Labour Party really means at the moment. That is why we think it would be good to have this confirmed by voting on the proposal we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e521	It is reassuring that transfiguration does not take place in line changes. It is fast in our days, both in domestic policy and in foreign policy. And it's probably the few people who remember that one of our biggest parties for a while went out and declared that it was going to be a serious party. That kind of thing is demanding processes. It has, among other things, led to the party no longer being represented in the Foreign Affairs Committee. Nevertheless, having a foreign policy is part of being a serious political party. And Norway’s relationship with Europe is probably not as simple as the representative Hagen did. I understood his description so that development in Europe gives cause for great anxiety and concern. However, Norway’s position is very satisfactory and does not give rise to any concern. Yes, I almost felt that in the first part of Mr. Hagen's contributions were so satisfying that he approached to seek refuge at a place in Trondheim called Satisfaction Cemetery, and that for Norway it was possible to lay down politically to rest there. No such problem is Norway’s relationship with European development. That's why I could imagine making a statement, sir. Hagen a direct question. The relationship between NATO and the EU is developing very rapidly, and key functions that have so far been in the NATO system are on the way across the EU system. It has led Norway into its original position that it will offer us to make Norwegian military forces available for joint EU operations adopted in bodies where Norway is not a member and therefore does not participate in the decision-making process. Find him, sir. Hagen that this is a new version of national sovereignty, and does he believe that this national sovereignty is also fully satisfactory for the Kingdom of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e531	Let me first say that I do not approve of the interpretation of my post that Inge Wohnung has now presented. I pointed out some features of the integration process that I think are somewhat worrying, but that does not mean that I believe there are major problems and that I am concerned about Europe. I also see challenges for Norway, but our system of resolving them within the framework of the EEA Agreement and through other agreements with the EU is satisfactory, as we see today. There are no major problems, but I mentioned processed fish products, and of course there are some others. With regard to NATO and the EU, I stressed that it is primarily NATO that we want to relate to and strengthen and have a good relationship with, especially with our greatest ally, the United States. It is clear that when Norway, as we have done, chooses to join forces and forces, it is a decision that Norway makes on a free basis each time. If we are to send Norwegian troops to operations abroad, whether NATO or EU-led, then of course we have our sovereignty. But we have come to the conclusion that from time to time there will be a reasonable way to contribute. We are fully aware that in many contexts it would be reasonable for Norway to be with just to ensure that the interest in maintaining the EEA Agreement by the EU is present. But I don't see the big problems here either, because we choose what we want to do in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e538	At the Country Meeting of the Progress Party in Tønsberg in 1992, Norwegian EU membership was the big issue. The party reduced a sample which ended by a majority in order to programme Norwegian membership. A minority, led by me, agreed that the Progress Party would remain neutral pending a referendum. The party president counted on the buttons until the night before the vote, but ended up making a strong contribution to EU membership. For me as a foreign policy spokesman, it was a defeat. I now record that Carl I. Hagen has changed his position and has become a no-man. But what surprises me a little bit is that he obviously also says no to a new referendum. We have programmed in the Progress Party in its time that referendum is the kind of democracy we respect and support, a more direct than a representative democracy. Does it mean, then, that if major changes occur over the next four years, a significant change in popular opinion, the Progress Party will oppose the holding of a new referendum on this issue, or does it simply mean that the party will not respect such a referendum? That might actually indicate when we're not going to apply for membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e545	I don't think the representative Gundersen may have heard after when I read from the programme of the Progress Party dealing with these things. I do not think there is any difference between the Progress Party programme and Mr. Gundersen. In this case, there must have been a change in Mr. Gundersen, as he himself has been able to write exactly this part and perhaps the main author is behind it. Here he must have been completely gone when it comes to listening. We are in order that before any application is to be sent, it should be a referendum. But we don't even see any need for this in the coming years. We've said that a long time ago. It's the same situation as it's been for a while. That's what Mr. President claims. Gundersen that I have become a no-man. I haven't said anything about that. I told you, I'm a good man. Today, the issue of EU membership is not a topical debate, and then you don't have to go into examining hearts and kidneys as to what you would have done if it had been a debate. It's too extensive. So that's not right. I'm a well-man, while I've been a 60-40 pst in the past. Yes-man. Now I'm a 50-50 pst. Well-man, because it's not a current issue. And then we'll see the day that there might be someone here in the Chamber who's promoting a proposal for a referendum to be held on whether or not to apply. We can't see that there's any need for it in the next four years, and that there's one thing that belongs to the debate that will continue until September 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e554	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e557	The approach to the European Communication shows that the Stortinget is still fragmented in the perspective of Norway’s relationship with the European Union. The parties defining each other as main opponents of Norwegian policy – the Labour Party, the Right and the former representatives of the Progress Party – mainly support the Government’s reference to the Union and the challenges that Norway faces as if abroad. This majority argues that one does not propose that Norway become a member of the EU – one only discusses ‘the challenges of being outside’. However, there is no doubt in the notification and in the suspension that Norwegian EU membership is the aim. The European Communication states in clear terms that we must have ‘the freedom of action in relation to our relationship with the EU’. The reference in the communication of our relationship with the EU has no doubt that the current link is not a proper tool for the maintenance of basic Norwegian interests, in order to use the language theme of the notification. And with regard to the extensive freedom of action, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has been commendably clear when he has clarified that it is free to apply for membership. The minority – the Christian People’s Party, the Central Party, the SV and the Left – believe that the people’s no towards the Union commits and must be respected. These parties, which are in line with public opinion, represent an alternative European policy: European cooperation shall be further developed on a basis of international law, a mutually committed cooperation between independent nations. It may be worth noting that these policy lines in our relationship with the EU have been stable for almost 30 years now. The minority is critical of the government’s presentation of the EU and the current developments characterising the Union project. I would like to focus my attention on two aspects, where the Central Party believes the message gives an incomplete and partially signed image of the Union. The notification does not seriously discuss the growing democratic deficit in the European Union. It is directly striking that the Government does not go deeper into an area of concern that engages the EU countries so strongly. The influence of small countries is weakened and more power is transferred from national level to the Union. Nor is the government concerned that the EU is developing in an increasingly federalist direction. The monetary union means that national economic freedom is severely restricted. In the wake of the Maastricht Treaty, more and more power is being transferred to the Union. Germany’s Federal Chancellor Gerhard Schröder takes on board the consequences of the EU’s increasingly taking on the tasks of national states. With the single currency, more and more common laws, the single market and eventually a common military force, the EU needs, in Schröder's view, a political superstructure. That is why Mr Schröder wants an EU government. We see the short and good contours of a state formation. Let me quote from the comment article in Today's Business of May 2nd this year: «Federalism as a political project is currently not on the EU agenda. As a practical project, the maximum live one.’» Since the parties that make up the majority of the Stortinget have as their objectives Norwegian membership of the Union, one must expect these parties also to have an opinion on the most striking developments in today's EU, namely the increasing democratic deficit and the Federation as a political project. The centre party supports the main objectives of judicial cooperation drawn up by the message. However, it must be allowed to question the instruments outlined by the Government for this cooperation, namely transparency, democracy and a human asylum and refugee policy, in the countries with which we are going to cooperate. I assume that in this debate the spokespersons of the Labour Party and the Right are not unaffected by the fact that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the UN Secretary-General have openly criticised the asylum and refugee policy of the EU countries and argued that several EU countries are actually violating the rules of the Geneva Convention. To quote High Commissioner Ruud Lubbers at a meeting in Stockholm in February of this year: ‘The Geneva Convention must not be weakened and Europe must not be made a fortress impossible to provide’.» Through the EEA Agreement, the EU’s democratic deficit becomes a reality that Norway too has to deal with. The political price Norway has to pay for the benefits provided by the agreement to Norwegian industry is a high price. In the areas covered by the agreement, the Norwegian legislative authority is suspended, claims Professor Trond Nordby and researcher Frode Veggeland in an article in the Journal of Social Research. Nordby and Wallgeland claim that the Stortinget ‘has become a passive beneficiary of EU laws and regulations’. This is and will be a democratic problem. And the Central Party and SV are not alone in pointing out the democratic weaknesses of the EEA Agreement. The Right too states in its observations that it is demanding to cover up for the ‘democratic deficit’ without being a full participant in the decision-making process. Not only the Central Party and the SV, but also the Right, refer to the report of the Power and Democracy Investigation, which concludes that our freedom of action in the areas covered by the EEA Agreement is not significantly greater than it would have been in a membership of the EU. The Right too believes that there is a lack of the European Communication that it does not contain an analysis of the democratic weaknesses of the EEA Agreement. Unlike the Right, which sees the EEA as an intermediary on the road to membership, the Centre considers that Norwegian EU membership will only reinforce the democratic shortcomings of the EEA Agreement. Norway is now able – with the EEA – to pursue its own policies in a number of areas, such as: fiscal policy, monetary policy, fisheries and agricultural policy and foreign policy. As I have already pointed out, the EU is in the process of developing that the democratic weaknesses of the EEA Agreement will only be reinforced if Norway becomes part of the Union. Therefore, the alternative to the EEA should not be EU membership but an alternative contract with the EU. The minority is in favour of a national, independent and active assessment of EEA legislation. When the EEA Agreement was adopted, it was strongly emphasised by the majority that the right of veto was available for use. I believe that it is the independents who really target the majority's view on this veto right. Mr Danielsen and Mr Gundersen said in the position immediately that: ‘EU directives must be considered binding for Norway in the circumstances because a non-implementation marks a breach of the requirements of loyalty to the EEA Agreement’. The centre party considers that the right to refuse an EU directive is a contractual right that must be applicable when the directive does not take into account, for example: health, safety and the environment. That is why we voted against the EU Directives on food make-up. The Centre Parties and the SV also want Norway to go against the Directive which provides for patents on living organisms. The notification is far ahead of the fact that Norway will fail to emerge from the compensation negotiations to take place in the context of the enlargement of the EU. The same defensive attitude marked the Foreign Minister in his statement on 20 March this year. These negotiations are likely to be difficult, but the WTO agreement now states that our trading conditions ‘generally’ should not deteriorate when countries with which Norway has bilateral agreements enter into the EU. Then it is unnecessarily defensive to pre-empt a poor negotiating result for Norway. EU defence and security cooperation, the ESDP, represents a challenging challenge for Norway. The views of the central party on the EU's crisis management initiative and Norway's cooperation with the EU are reflected in the Innst. S. No 152 for 1999-2000. The ESDP cannot be realised without close cooperation with NATO, which sits on the military resources. Norway is outside the EU and, of course, has no place in the decision-making bodies of the EU. However, it must be obvious that Norway, as a full member of NATO, has a real influence on the decisions the alliance should take in terms of the use of NATO resources. Norwegian participation in actions under the auspices of the UN, NATO, OSCE or the EU shall be determined by national decisions. NATO shall continue to be the basis for collective security in Europe. Nor does our national security mean that Norway should become part of the European Union. Norway also has a greater freedom of action by being outside the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e602	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e605	The representative Jakobsen and I share the same view of Norwegian membership. The difference is that my attitude towards membership – that I don't think it's a good thing to give in to – is situational. Jacobsen’s position on Norwegian membership of the EU is more fundamental. We also disagree with the EEA Agreement, because I am in favour of it, while Jakobsen is against it. But we also have a different view of the foundation and content of the EEA Agreement, by the fact that Jakobsen probably sees this as a purely legal agreement, while I believe that it is not only legal, but not even legal, but it is a political tool we have to do here, and that, when you relate to the EEA Agreement, you have to take it into account. Both of us have contributed to our being outside the EU, and yet there is now a situation in which we are discussing how the EU is developing. Several of the central parties, and not least the representative Jacobsen, have addressed this with how the EU is developing, and believe that we are entitled to discuss the content of the EU. One of the situations in which we have chosen to stand outside is that we are therefore not justified in terms of how the EU develops. But this debate is about what we need to see, and deal with it. That should be our debate. Then I will finally be allowed to ask a question to the representative Jakobsen. We are now recording that the Centre Party is a major supporter of the WTO as an organisation that can be used, and in particular in terms of compensation for our fish exports when new countries become members of the EU. And I have to ask: is it that the Central Party believes that the WTO is a tool for increasing cross-border free trade, or is this limited to Norwegian exports?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e616	I'm not sure if it was a common sense that now had the word, but let go with it. The commitment will take the credit for Norway being outside the EU today, and we can at least agree on that. On the issue of the EU, it must be possible to have a principle approach. If one is in principle against the Treaty of Rome, against the Maastricht Treaty and against the Amsterdam Treaty, then one must draw the political conclusion that this is a Union project that we do not want to participate in. It must be possible for one to take on a principle basis. And then the Engebretsen is committed to the WTO and the Central Party's position on the WTO. The centre party was against the EEA Agreement, but we are prepared to take advantage of all the possibilities that this EEA Agreement may have for Norway. The centre party wanted a WTO agreement, because we wanted international rules on international trade. We could imagine the WTO agreement differently, but when we have a WTO agreement, the Centre Party is prepared to use it for everything it is worth. I'm going to say, it's just supposed to be missing! What I have criticised in the specific case raised by the Ombudsman is the fact that the government is almost foresaw that these are compensation negotiations from which Norway will come out badly. For almost 30 years, I have negotiated a good deal with the Engebratsen Party, but I think we would have come out of these negotiations very badly if we had started to inform the Workers' Party that here we believe that we have such bad cards on hand that the result is doomed to be bad for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e627	Jakobsen and I are completely and fundamentally in agreement on the European issues, but it does not prevent me from congratulating him with a successful strategy over many, many years. From a no point of view, Jacobsen has clearly come up with its strategy, and an important element of this strategy has just been building alliances. Now we've seen earlier in the debate today and heard that Carl I. Hagen continues his glide flight towards the no-side. He referred to the national meeting decision; he has today made proposals for voting in the Chamber, and not least his intervention was a strong euro-sceptic intervention. My question to Jakobsen is: what opportunities does he see for alliance building after observing Carl I. Hagen today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e634	Petersen thought that the Center Party has had a successful strategy if you look back. I sincerely hope that the strategy we have chosen will also deliver policy results on EU issues in the future. Otherwise I think Petersen raised an interesting question where he took up Carl I. Hagen's posts on behalf of the Advancement Party. I have to repeat what I said in my previous line, that I am surprised that people can have such a pragmatic attitude to such a fundamental issue as becoming a member of a union. But we'll have to deal with that with Carl I. Hagen. I also have to say that when I heard Carl I. Hagen's posts, I actually got the impression, like Petersen, that here there was really a "no-man" talking. But as soon as he was confronted with the conclusion of his post, he was in a wild flight, and it ended up that he from the Great Council declared himself to be a well-man. Building alliances with well-partyed parties doesn't see the Center Party as a particularly topical strategy. I also finally want to say, because Steensnæs raised questions in his reply to Hagen about Hagen was prepared to take over a free throne, that when Hagen so definitely rejected that he was looking for this throne, I felt very calm on the no-side.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e641	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e645	The question of whether or not we should become a member of the European Union is not to be excluded from the issue of European policy that involves most people in Norway. It is therefore only half-hearted when the Government, with its clear 'yes' position, will launch a European debate which will not cover the membership issue. That is why the debate since the communication was presented has been rather tam. It has only been a small temperature every time the seemingly boiled to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and he has vented the need for Norway to submit a new application for membership of the EU in the next few years. If the Government wanted a European debate more independent of the membership issue, it should have contained a nuanced discussion of the benefits and disadvantages of membership and had an open conclusion. Instead, we have received a message that both on and between the lines regrets that Norway is not a member and is very uncritical in the EU. For the sake of the social debate, it's an advantage not to spend too long discussing what to discuss, but to tone the flag and come up with a clear point of view. As you know, SV has a clear no position on EU membership. However, there is a number of other important issues in a European debate independent of the Norwegian membership issue. At a time when such policies are shaped within the EU/EEA, it is difficult to set limits on what is European policy. In principle, almost everything is covered. Europe is also more than the EU. It is the relationship with Russia, the development of the Balkans, the development of new pan-European organisations, such as the OSCE. However, it is natural to use time to comment on some features of EU development. The European Communication states that the enlargement process in the EU will be a relatively straight-line process which will inevitably lead the EU to grow to at least 27 Member States. That enlargement will come, there is no reason to doubt, but there is no indication that it will happen to the extent and pace of the government. Some new members by the next enlargement period are unlikely, both because there is a lot of work to be done in all parties before new members can be admitted, and also because there are clearly no people in other countries, and the referendums can give no results. The enlargement of the EU is, in the SV's view, primarily a relationship between the candidate countries and the EU, and there is a relationship between the governments and the populations of the candidate countries. But we are positive to contribute in relation to, among other things, the well-being and environment of the candidate countries, also completely independent of the enlargement process. SV looks with interest at the impact that the forthcoming EU enlargement can have on EU cooperation. For us who are critical of the development of a close political union, it is close to thinking that enlargement will in a positive way slow down the development of a dense Union or that it will get what is called ‘an EU at several speeds’. It must be a heavy headache for EU politicians that most people in Europe seem to have little sense of Union work. Much less, there is some popular enthusiasm to track. In our neighbors, resistance is stable. In Denmark, people answer no each time they are asked in a referendum on the development of the Union. Measurements show at regular intervals that about 50 pst. EU citizens are in favour of membership of the Union. The European Union project thus lacks a popular anchoring. There is also no common European grassroots or European public. This is a crucial democratic problem and an important reason to oppose the development of a closer Union, where even more decisions are to be taken by the EU. In addition, there are formal problems with democracy in the EU. A choice in the EU is excluded from the influence of the policy and composition of the executive. The EU is an organisation of states, not people, and is not a parliamentary democracy. This is a problem that some people want to address by making the EU a federation, such as the United Kingdom. Mr. Joschka Fischer has called for it. He wants a federal constitution, a president elected directly by the citizens of all Member States, a European government, etc. But without a common public and a greater degree of popular uprising, these are thoughts that it would be difficult and not desirable to realize. If the leading authorities of the Member States of the European Union become too keen in their Union efforts, it is easy to imagine that people in the Member States will have problems hanging out and will respond with nationalism instead of enthusiasm for European cooperation. It is surprising that the Government does not place more emphasis on these democratic problems related to the development of the EU and the dilemmas associated with the development of a closer political union. The government is very clearly enthusiastic about EU enlargement, but it is unclear where the government is in relation to the debate on a more federal Europe. In addition to opening up more Member States, the EU has in recent years opened up thematic cooperation in several new areas, such as common foreign and security policy. SV believes that the historically important task of European security policy is to create security mechanisms that include Russia and that do not help to maintain old or build new barriers. Therefore, SV is pleased that the Committee in its nomination attaches great importance to the cooperation on security policy with Russia. SV will follow the development of EU defence cooperation with a critical look. We are concerned that Norway should only participate in operations where we have had good insight into the planning phase and which have a mandate from the United Nations. We are also concerned that the development of EU defence cooperation should not involve increased defence expenditure and upgrading in Europe. There is little in today's situation that suggests that there is a need for it. What needs more resources is to prevent conflicts and create reconciliation. In international forums where the EU speaks with one voice, it may be beneficial for Norway to be able to express other positions and build other alliances. Known examples of this having been an advantage are Rio in 1992 and WTO negotiations in 1999. At the environmental conference in Rio in 1992, Denmark came to Norway and Sweden with proposals they wanted to promote, but for which they did not get an EU-wide response. During the WTO negotiations in Seattle, Norway played a central role in the internal negotiating circles, according to the VG on 4 December 1999. Economic and monetary union is an important difference between what we see today and the EU that existed in 1994. A single currency will have advantages in reducing speculation against national currencies, and one will avoid exchange and exchange fees. But EMU can have a major impact on the country's ability to steer economic policy. A monetary union presupposes that the fiscal policies of the Member States are relatively similar. The so-called convergence criteria have already bound Member States in the case of public debt, government budget deficits and inflation. However, a single currency combined with free movement of capital will also require a convergence of revenue and expenditure of countries. The most likely outcome is that those countries with high taxes and high public expenditure must gradually reduce them. Ten years ago, the completion of the internal market and free movement were at the top of the EU’s agenda. It now appears that there is a growing recognition in the EU that the focus on free flow and max growth has been at the expense of environmental and health concerns. Fears of jealousy and foot-and-mouth disease have now raised dramatic questions about free-flow policy, but also about industrialised agriculture. The need to ensure that the food we eat is free of infection and poison has become increasingly heavy throughout Europe. Many EU citizens will have great sympathy and understanding if Norway chooses different from the EU to ensure healthy and safe food. In this area, we should not be afraid to go ahead with good examples and show that few things when it comes to the problem are more important than taking care of health and the environment. In winter, however, the bulk of the population chose to disagree by agreeing to include the food make-up directives and the Sweeteners Directive in Norwegian legislation. Despite all the clear technical advice, the bulk of the population chose to swallow this as well. It is bad that it now appears that the government has given up using the right of reservation in some circumstances. The way in which we receive and incorporate EEA directives in Norway should be a cross-section of ideas for most people. It should be possible to agree that we need to take advantage of the opportunities available to us in order to influence matters at the earliest possible time in the decision-making process in the EU. It is a major weakness of the European Communication that one does not promote concrete proposals on how we can improve our opportunities in this respect. This is a neglected area, and there is an urgent need to put in place schemes that can help organisations and environments in Norway to actively seek to influence what is going to become a common policy. Today, both parties and organisations come too late in the decision-making process in relation to EU directives that will also apply to Norway. It is necessary to facilitate the early awareness of the fact that an EU proposal is under discussion in the EU and to provide information on how the proposal is assessed by Norwegian professional bodies and authorities. However, in addition to information, practical arrangements must be made for policy-makers and organisations to work more systematically with influence. The proposals that the Centre and the SV are promoting today will be a major step forward in this area if they are given a majority. In addition to the proposals we are making, the SV support proposals to evaluate the democratic processes associated with the EEA Agreement and to receive an annual EEA message to the Stortinget. For SV, it is important that European policy is not just about defending our national interests, but about how we can contribute in a positive way to strengthening values such as justice, democracy, tolerance, well-being and environmental considerations in Europe. That is why European policy must not only be about agreements and institutions, but about what political vision we need for Europe. Whatever you might think about the issue of membership, it is a fact that Norway is going to be outside the EU for a long time. European policy must therefore be designed with this as a starting point. Norway has both a political freedom and an economic freedom of action that should allow us to choose different from the European Union in several areas and not just choose adaptation. Also based on a desire to influence Europe and influence in relation to the important issues I mentioned, Norway should for example: pursue more offensive environmental policies and seek to influence them more often through the power of the example. Finally, I refer to proposal No. 5, which SV promotes together with the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e681	The representative has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e686	For the sake of order, let me underline, as Blankenborg also did, that the Workers' Party will build cooperation with the EU on an intergovernmental basis, where, of course, the EEA Agreement is a cornerstone of that work. Then it is important that we pursue an active European policy in order to promote our interests, of course, but also, as the representative Rugtvedt underlines, to help develop values such as solidarity, democracy, etc. It is also our European responsibility. And as part of that work, we have supported the path of the new applicant countries towards the Community, and this seems to have been the cross-political agreement in the Chamber. That's why it's also set at 169 million. a plan of action to strengthen contact with the new candidate countries, contribute to positive, social and political development, and, of course, qualify them for EU membership. It is Poland and the Baltic countries that have the main priority in this context, where key areas such as democracy, the environment, justice and research are included – i.e. values and ideals that the representative Rugtvedt was also involved in his speech. In the foreign debate earlier in the spring, SV was somewhat unclear in its position both on enlargement and not least on Norway’s cooperation arrangements with Central and Eastern Europe. I would therefore like to reiterate the question I also raised at that time, which several people asked about the SV's view on EU membership for the new candidate countries, and on our contribution to qualifying them for EU membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e693	I assume that the representative Marit Nybakk has read the setting and SV's comment there. There is a rather full mention of our view of the enlargement process, and our view of Norway's relationship with the candidate countries, so there should be no particular ambiguity about it anymore. But what is important to us is whether the EU should expand. There is a relationship between the candidate countries and the EU, and there is a relationship between the governments of the candidate countries and the population there. After all, we must have full respect for the fact that in some of these candidate countries it may be thought that there will be no. But what is important to us is that Norway should both contribute to building democracy, build welfare societies, and we should contribute to raising environmental standards in all the countries that are applying for membership of the EU. That is what we are going to do, assuming that we have the opportunity to give a handshake, and that is important for cooperation in Europe, and we are going to do it independently of the candidate process. But we also like to contribute to the candidate process for those countries that want to join the EU, and we respect that the people of the candidate countries can choose to say yes to EU membership. We have also said that it will be interesting to see what impact the enlargement of the EU has on the development of the EU itself. It may seem to be a positive counterweight to the strong tendency to build a political union, that the EU is made up of several and very different Member States. And last but not least, it will also be very interesting if the Workers' Party had more clearly flagged, as one sees the development of a political union in the EU, and how one looks at the relationship between enlargement in breadth and enlargement in depth in EU cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e700	I would like to come back to the question that Marit Nybakk asked, because I had also noticed SV's comments. It is not clear whether SV actually supports the action plan presented by the Government, which the central parties have explicitly said they support, namely that once the candidate countries have opted for membership on a democratic basis, we are prepared to ensure that they have the best possible agreement. So I would like to challenge the representative Lisbet Rugtvedt to confirm that SV is also behind such a policy. I am a little surprised at the description provided by SV regarding the eastward extension. It is clear that it can go in the direction that such an extension leads to the development of the political union moving in a more flexible direction than the federal one. But today's trends are unfortunately, in our opinion, at least, that the federal features are stronger. So when SV describes this as an opportunity to get a more flexible mechanism and allow candidate countries a greater degree of adaptation, it is probably more of a hope than a reality. I would also like to inform you that the Christian People's Party would like to support the first of the three points under proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox There are three proposals that have been numbered. The last two we can't support, but the first we can support. We believe that it cannot be a responsibility of the Government to ensure that organisations are up-to-date. It's a responsibility the organizations themselves have to take. But the government can facilitate this, and therefore the responsibility has to be placed like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e709	If there is still uncertainty about SV's position on the action plan for the candidate countries, then I just want to confirm that SV supports that action plan and we support Norway's contribution to those countries that choose to apply for membership of the EU. With regard to this relationship between development in breadth and depth in the EU, it is probably true, as the representative Steensnæs says, that SV believes to express a hope that wide-ranging expansion can lead to a dampening of the zeal for developing a strong political union. We believe that it is unwise for the European Union to want to move towards a political union, among other things. in the light of the very poor public anchoring suffered by the EU project and that this is an important argument that they should slow down that development. So none of us today can say how this will go. But it must also be possible for SV to point out some possible positive developments, while I see the representative Steensnæs his point, namely that the EU per. Today, it has chosen to build a political union and to take decisions to facilitate enlargement, which means that it has strengthened progress towards political union. This development may reverse, but it remains to follow developments to see if it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e718	I want to stay within the same area, namely the SV's attitude towards the new candidate countries towards the EU. It is quite interesting to record in the suspension, where SV has comments with the Central Party, that they are very clear and critical in terms of the EEA Agreement, such as the EU and among others. Norway has concluded, but where they nevertheless conclude that EU membership is worse for Norway than the EEA Agreement we have. But then it is that they are going to become very unclear, in relation to the 12 candidate countries of the EU. I noticed that Lisbet Rugtved underlined that SV believes that the issue of enlargement is primarily a matter between the EU and the candidate countries. But they are not alienated – I kept saying – from offering alternative membership to EFTA, even though the new democracies have made it very clear that it is not relevant for them. I would like to ask directly, in order to clarify the political position of SV, whether it is important for the new democracies in the east to be integrated into European cooperation structures and to participate in the EU market on the same footing as the Member States? Is it important for the EU to work towards bringing Europe together and removing new economic and social divides in Europe? Does SV think that enlargement can actually also be in Norway's interest?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e727	When the representative Siri Frost Sterri asks whether SV agrees that it is important for the countries of the former Eastern bloc to be involved in European cooperation, it would be very, very strange if we said no to it. Of course, we are in favour of all the countries of Europe being involved in cooperation. And we would like to stress that cooperation is not just about the EU, it is also about these pan-European organisations that we have had quite a few rounds of earlier today. We believe it is important for these countries to be involved in trade. That's why we wrote in the setting: ‘If the enlargement process for some countries takes a very long time, or if some applicant countries remain outside the EU, Norway should consider inviting these countries into free trade arrangements, for example. in EFTA.’» That's what's in it with EFTA membership. With regard to the position on the EEA Agreement, whether it is better than EU membership, I would remind you that the representative Jan Petersen has stated earlier today that the EEA Agreement has killed the idea of a different country. For SV, the idea of a different policy is not dead. We understand that Norway, with the position we have today, has a freedom of action which means, for example, that we have the right to do so. can choose a more offensive environmental policy than European countries. We have, despite all the greater freedom of action to choose a different approach to environmental policy, to choose a different approach to consumer policy when we are outside the EU – despite the fact that the EEA Agreement imposes strong commitments on us as it does. However, we believe that it is also possible within the EEA Agreement to make use of the right of reservation, to go ahead as an example of choosing different from what the EU countries do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e741	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e744	In his interesting opening speech in today's debate, Mr Blankenborg had a trip back to the near past, describing how one eight to ten years ago looked at the possibilities of change that one could face. The morality of what he said was that from a democratic perspective, in many ways fairytale development in Europe tells us that one should not be too bastant and lock up all its possibilities of freedom of action when one looks forward. I basically agree with such an approach. For in many ways it is an adventurous development we have witnessed, all of us who have been occupied by democracy and human rights around us – including in Europe – and who have believed in the ability of citizens to take action when it is most crucial for themselves and their nation. However, it is also part of this past that in Norway, over the 1990s, we have been through quite heated EU debates. I remember that the first year I was a representative in this room – and got to stand on this platform – was a time of very tough EU debates. The fronts stood steeply against each other, and the arguments lay far apart. In 1993-94, towards a background of a possible economic shift in the country, with high unemployment and uncertainty about how developments would be for the future nation, we had a very sharp EU debate, where heavy shootings were used. In today’s European and EU debate – and it is quite illustrative when one sits and follows it – there is a dramatic climate different from that one experienced for just such a short time back. Since we are discussing the summary of this time and time in Norwegian politics today in some way, and since we are debating Europe issues, this should have been an opportunity for some of us at the time, and as a goal for Norwegian development in this area, what has been achieved, and which has worked well, to hope a little and say: We who drowned a little in the heavy shooting debate seven to eight years ago because we believed in EEA cooperation as a lasting solution, were right. It concerns the Left, it concerns the Christian People's Party, and there is not least a significant minority in the Workers' Party, led by former Wraith representative Hallvard Bakke. But I don't think it's time to be in that corner, because it's happening so much, and I think we're all going to be humiliated by the dramatic and dynamic changes that are happening around us in Europe. I would just like to make it clear that the relationship we've had over these years has worked as some of us said at the time, that the EEA is a lasting solution. And today's discussion of the Government's Europe Communication shows with all its clarity that there is agreement on the vast majority of our relationship with European cooperation. There is probably something in contrast to the image of the Workers' Party in opposition to the alleged inaction of the central government towards development in Europe, because today we have to note that there has been little change in Norwegian European policy since the last government change. I think it is related to the fact that perhaps the most important thing for the Workers' Party in the opposition was to score cheap domestic political points in the European debate, while the most important thing for the Labour Party in the government, through the Europe message we are discussing today, is that the debate on Norway's relationship with European cooperation should provide the basis for a balanced and constructive approach to the challenges of cooperation in Europe facing Norway as a country, as it was in itself for the previous government – the central government. Of course, for Norway, as a relatively small country on the outskirts of Europe, there are advantages as well as disadvantages in not being a member of the European Union. At the same time, it becomes increasingly clear when one looks back at the EU debate we had in the 1990s that a number of the Labour Party leaders, not least led by former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, at the conclusion of the EEA Agreement had prophetic rights in their assurances that even the EEA Agreement would be an autonomous and potentially sustainable alternative if people did so unheard and marked their disagreement with the Labour Party leadership in the 1994 referendum. As far as the left is concerned, the EEA Agreement appeared in 1994 as one of us has allowed us to describe as an acceptable compromise between the economically necessary and the democratically questionable. In retrospect, we've given a lot of right in this. It is also gratifying to note that, in this setting and perhaps not least in this debate, the Workers' Party from the Government Offices underlines so clearly that EEA cooperation provides an independent basis for our relations with cooperation in the European Union. As pointed out in the Communication, the forthcoming enlargement of EU cooperation will not represent insurmountable challenges for continued EEA cooperation between the EU and EFTA. A review in the debate on Norway’s relationship with Europe is that EEA cooperation does not provide us with sufficient opportunity to influence the legislation that is in any case applicable in Norway. It must then be allowed to express some frustration that the proposals of the Christian People's Party and the Left in the vote to set up a parliamentary office and a separate 'Norges Hus' in Brussels will not be welcomed by the parties who would like to be the first to point out that Norway must become a full member of the EU if it is to increase its influence. Today's debate has shown that there are many more sympathy for such a thought or similar thoughts from both the Workers' Party and the Right's speakers, so there is a basis for hope that we might find ways to work anyway. Because if there is increased transparency and commitment to demand, it is important that the majority also see the importance of supporting practical proposals that can actually remedy what many see as defective in EEA cooperation. Today’s debate has demonstrated with all possible clarity that the Norwegian political environment is united on Norwegian European policy in terms of Norway’s need for an active political line towards EU cooperation, as long as the issue of membership is kept out of the debate. Some of the strange things about today's debate have been the start of a kind of debate on what debate we should and should have in Norway as non-member countries on relations to be finally decided between the Member States. I have to say that I am of the opinion that we are European in any case, we are democrats and many of us are also happy to debate. It is important and right for us to also debate issues that we should not ultimately decide, but that must be decided between the Member States, because there are many developments in the EU that will affect us — and indeed most of them. And it's a bit rough, so that what's about the depth of EU cooperation is something we fear from a Norwegian point of view, while what's about enlargement, a more diverse Europe, eastward enlargement, many of us will look at as desirable and beneficial, and facing positive challenges, with a few exceptions. Fish are mentioned here. I want to point to one development, one specific area, which I think is very interesting. That is what we now see in the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union – which has, in many ways, been the EU's economic, but also political, over many decades – which may now be facing a shift. It is not least about enlargement to the east, where countries with an enormous agricultural production potential are going to enter the EU – especially Poland is central here – and where it is difficult to imagine that the EU’s enormously ambitious and costly agricultural policies will be integrated with all the new Member States. A move towards a greater shift in agricultural policy towards national responsibility will have an impact on the framework conditions we have in Norway, but also on the political debate on EU development and possible future debates on membership issues. These are trends that will affect us, but which in themselves are also interesting. Norway is considered by many to be a foreign country. However, it is important to point out that, for Norway, there is a self-selected exclusion justified on the grounds of gravity of the case and democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e778	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e781	I think Sponheim had an interesting post, realistic, with practical solutions, a constructive approach to European policy, and not least a recognition that there is consensus on most of our relationship with Europe. Nevertheless, there is one point I would like to take up with him. This is the access that each EFTA country has to oppose the application of new legislation within the EEA Agreement to the EFTA area, i.e. what Steensnæs referred to earlier today as the right of reservation and what we normally call the right of veto – which would mean that if we veto it will also apply to Iceland and Liechtenstein. Steensneeze was very categorical in her post today. He said – if I remember him correctly – that the right to reserve is a negotiated right to be used. The center party was even clearer. Jacobsen said that the right of veto is there to be used. It seems that there are slightly different opinions about this among the centermates. Although the Left in the position is with the other central comrades to believe that Norway must use its veto right, the Left's parliamentary leader, Gunnar Kvassheim, said to Dagbladet on 4 January 2000 – then they might have been in a slightly different position: ‘Several EU opponents are vetoed as the purest kick. I'll warn you against that. We need to be solution-oriented when we are gradually going to deal with a wide range of very important directives.’ These included: the Food Mining Directive, which was the subject of that opinion. I want to ask Sponheim what is the Left's attitude and view on how the veto right should be used, and how much it should be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e797	I would first like to say that the quotation from the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim could have been repeated today. The so-called veto right, which, of course, is not a veto right – we don't have that much power – but the possibility of keeping Norway out of the rule development, we should use it to the extreme, and it is definitely not desirable from the Left's point of view. But situations can arise where we think it would be right, where it is directly harmful, for example. for public health, if we do not direct Norwegian rule development in a different direction. Therefore, of course, we are behind what is said in the setting today, that in certain situations we believe it is right to use this right of reservation. There is clearly no desire on our part to call on this access to undermine or damage the EEA Agreement in any way. In that case, it is regrettable if, in some cases, it is necessary to use the right of reservation. But there may be situations where, after all, the damage is less than the damage that can occur if we have to implement legislation in some areas, such as: directly harms public health or the environment. I think that is also the approach with which the Left will meet in the questions of the use of the booking access in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e806	I also noticed that the post from Sponheim was marked by a great degree of pragmatism, although I must admit that I did not fully understand what the Left really means. But that's it. Now they write in the setting together with the Christian People’s Party – and Sponheim repeated in his post here instead – that important national and democratic considerations are ensured by being outside EU cooperation. I can only point out what party leader Jan Petersen said in his speech today, namely that Norway is involved in cooperation in the EU for what it is worth. He mentioned all the different areas in which we cooperate, and that means that we are involved in cooperation in most policy areas, as close as in agriculture. What I would like to ask is: What examples can Sponheim show that our democracy would be weakened if we were members of the European Union? The reason why I ask is that the Right for its part is, in fact – I said – on the contrary, concerned about the lack of real influence Norway has in the close EU cooperation we are involved in, and believes that it represents a far greater democratic problem for Norway than that we are not a member. So if Sponheim can now give examples of what we guarantee democratically by our alienation, it would be interesting to get ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e815	We are a young country, and for those of us who stood on the no-side of the EU fight in 1994, it was important to stress that the formal position of the Stortinget, our Parliament, to have a last word in terms of laws and decisions for the country, was important to fence around. That's the big principle distinction between standing for a no-position with a democratic justification and a popular government justification, and having a more and different adaptation to this. I accept that there are other approaches, as I know the Right is using on these issues, where it is right to move out of Parliament's last word-power to those bodies that actually capture many decisions, which we must nevertheless take inwards, as we experience through the EEA Agreement. But for a young nation like ours, we in the Left feel it is important just to have this formal power attached to Parliament, and that cooperation with other countries is built on intergovernmental cooperation. The history of this time – about the 1994 referendum and subsequent developments – will be written in a few decades, and we are hoped that many of us will experience it. With regard to one then, I am quite sure that history is going to say – either Norway at the time had to be a member of the EU or not, or whether the EU has gone in a completely different direction than anyone is able to predict today – that the election of the Norwegian people in 1994 was a sensible choice for Norway at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e824	In the light of the answer given by the representative Sponheim, I would like to underline once again that I think the Left still has a very constructive relationship with Norway's relationship with Europe, recognising that we need an active European policy, and not least in recognition of the poorness of the EEA Agreement, and that it is the basis of our relationship with the EU, in addition to a number of other agreements that the EEA Agreement does not cover. However, I now have a question that concerns the EEA Agreement and the accession of the applicant countries to the Community, and therefore also the problems we can expect with regard to Norwegian fish exports to countries with which we have a very good agreement today, not least Poland. In the setting, the Left is also included in a note — and there are several places in the setting — where it is believed that when other new EU Member States enter Norway will have ‘requirements for compensatory measures increasing duty-free allowances to the EU or reducing customs duties’. And then you say, "Oh, my God. ‘These members point to the fact that the basis for this requirement lies in WTO legislation, in particular in the 1994 GATT Agreement, Article XXIV.’; I have to ask Sponheim: what do the left and centre comrades think by writing that they are going to use the WTO Agreement in relation to the EEA Agreement and against the EU in the context of an EU enlargement?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e836	I understand it so that I get credit for my approach to these questions. I do not think – especially with regard to the EEA Agreement – that this should be surprising. On every occasion for two major periods, I have now stood on this platform and have been an eloquent defender of the EEA Agreement, and seen it as a lasting and good solution for Norway, as a good compromise between the economically necessary and politically questionable. I will, of course, do that as long as I think so, and as long as there is a basis to claim that the EEA Agreement works for Norway. But I also agree with the view that this has been expressed, that it is a bad deal, and it has probably become somewhat brittle. I felt, not least for two and a half years as a Council of State, with responsibilities that were close up and partly within the scope of the EEA Agreement, that a great deal of effort and a tough fight from the Norwegian side is necessary to take care of the EEA Agreement and to ensure that it works for us. Therefore, the question of the use of the right of reservation is serious, insofar as it could harm the EEA Agreement itself. And it is necessary to stress that the Norwegian Government, at all times, has a difficult and important role to play in ensuring that it takes care of, informs about and keeps the EEA Agreement playing this important role for us. I am somewhat uncertain about what comments on the WTO that were also on the Left, because the Central Party and the SV have also had their own comments on this. But in general, I would like to say that in an approach to this difficult issue of fish, it is important for Norway to do what you can to safeguard the Norwegian interests and not try to play out any cards on our side of the table before entering into such negotiations. This is business, and when you run business, you run business. Then you sit down and take care of the interests you have to attend to, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e845	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e848	St.meld. No 12, the Europe Communication, facilitates a wide-ranging debate on the development of Europe and the associated challenges and opportunities for Norway. So far today’s debate shows that the no-parties, or perhaps more precisely the no-no-parties – the centre party and SV in particular – have problems debating how Norway should meet these challenges, perhaps primarily because it is overshadowed by the desire for a confrontation related to membership issues. It stands in the way of a debate on what is our actual relationship with the European Union today. Some aspects of Europe's development are particularly central. Of course, the end of the cold war, the political upheavals in Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, which, together with other developments, have created greater interdependence between the countries of Europe, and the fact that twelve countries are now negotiating to join the EU, and also that Turkey is a candidate country. This development has a direct impact on Norway. Firstly, the work on a peaceful and mutually beneficial cooperation relationship with Russia must be an important part of Norwegian foreign policy. As a neighbouring country, we have a special responsibility to facilitate increased trust and cooperation in the north. That is in accordance with our clear interests. The many important interests in this area call for a steady and firm enforcement of our sovereignty in the northern regions. We have a self-interest in and an opportunity to contribute to democratic reforms and sustainable development in Russia. Here it is natural for Norway to place the highest emphasis on North-West Russia. The potential for economic cooperation is high, not least in the fisheries sector. We have important interests to care for in terms of the management and exploitation of marine resources. A stable development for the Russian economy and a clear and predictable framework for investment will also make the petroleum sector an area of high potential for cooperation with Norway. And we have to take the environmental threats seriously. The risk of environmental damage needs to be reduced through deeper cooperation with Russia and nuclear safeguards in North-West Russia. The EU is also stepping up its cooperation with Russia. We need to be active towards the EU to ensure that Norwegian priorities are included. In this area, the policy towards Russia and European policy will be two sides of the same coin for Norway. Europe needs to be assessed as a whole, and it is a goal for Norway to help more and more people participate in European cooperation. The EU enlargement process towards the east is an important building block in the work of a more cohesive and collaborative Europe. It provides a historic opportunity to create lasting peace, democracy and well-being in our part of the world. A large majority today support the current and pending extension in the setting. At the same time, enlargement of the EU faces challenges for Norway. An important aspect of this development is in particular related to the framework conditions for the Norwegian fishing industry. For Norwegian fishing industry, EU enlargement to the east means that EFTA free trade agreements with the candidate countries are replaced by the EEA Agreement. This means that free trade for a number of important products is replaced by customs duties of up to 20 pst. In this area, it is very important to work actively to ensure the best possible framework conditions for the Norwegian fishing industry. Poland has a particularly important position in Norwegian maritime food exports and decreases over 60 pst. of Norwegian exports of seafood to the ACs. The concrete results for the Norwegian fishing industry will depend on the compensation schemes granted to Norway at the end of free trade. This will be determined through negotiations between Norway and the EU. The starting point for these negotiations must be a common desire for the optimum functioning of the EU and EEA maritime food market. It will be able to meet our desire to unlock the significant potential of the fisheries and aquaculture sector in the years to come and contribute to growth and employment in the coastal districts of Norway, while at the same time meeting the EU's own needs for maritime food.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e867	The government has given its biggest message the title ‘About Norway and Europe at the turn of the century’. As I read the message, it discusses the two main themes: What are the trends in Europe? How will Norway safeguard its national interests in the future? What strikes me during the reading of the communication is that the trends are no longer specific European but are becoming more and more global. Specific Europeans are coming in with regard to European cooperation bodies and the management of crises and conflicts on our continent. But if we look at themes that have historically played an important role in the Norwegian European debate, namely how to ensure the development of wealth, trade, environment and peace, and in recent years also to deal with people's migrations, yes, these are now more global challenges that require a broad foreign policy commitment and cooperation. We also see that international developments are affecting Norwegian society. Therefore, the distinction between traditional domestic and foreign policies is less pronounced and national policies are influenced by foreign policy events. This means that foreign policy should be given greater attention and status in Norwegian policy. Several speakers today have been concerned about Norway’s relationship with Europe. In my opinion, this is going to be the wrong perspective because Norway is part of Europe. The challenge will therefore be to discuss Norway’s role in Europe. Then it's important to be realistic. The role of Norway will continue to be a small country role in the future, which means that we need to focus on adaptation, dialogue and cooperation. But this can't be a self-destructive position. Through alliances and political influence, Norway can take care of its interests, and in fact also participate in shaping a common policy in our neighbourhoods through the expertise and quality that we have. In other words, it means taking advantage of the possibilities that we have. A traditional domestic policy area, where the EEA Agreement opened up stronger Norwegian cooperation with EU countries, is research and education. Exchanges of researchers and students foster international contacts and cooperation. If we are to further develop this cooperation, we need changes in our own education system, and that's something the Storting is now working on. Knowledge exchange and knowledge development are also taking place through research cooperation. Experience from Norway’s participation in the EU Framework Programme for Research is positive. But we can do more. Now the work is in the process of designing the 6th framework program. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the Government promote important areas of cooperation for Norway, including: as formulated in the research report adopted last year by the Stortinget. It is not to be avoided that the Norwegian European debate quickly addresses the issue of Norwegian membership of the EU. As a result, several interventions today have also focused on developments in the EU. The EU is now in the process of negotiations leading to an increase in the number of members. The enlargement of the EU now raises major issues of power and economy within the EU. These need internal clarification in the EU before new countries can join. These are processes that seem to be more demanding than many would have thought. New issues are being raised about the development and future of the EU, which in turn raises the question of popular membership both in the candidate countries and in the Member States. As I and the Christian People's Party see it, these processes will take time. Furthermore, so far, developments have not raised decisive new challenges for Norway, which was not known to us during the last referendum, in 1994. That is why, in my opinion, this is not the basis for any new debate on applying for Norwegian membership of the European Union in the forthcoming growing period. Norwegian policy towards the EU in the coming years must be based on the 1994 referendum. However, this does not prevent us from seeking cooperation on key challenges in our neighbourhoods and pursuing active foreign policy both globally and in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e884	There are those who believe that because more decisions are now taken in international forums, our right to self-determination is weakened. But the fact that we see today that more decisions are taken elsewhere than here in the Great Britain does not necessarily mean that democracy is weakening. There is no doubt that it is so democratic that politicians do not use international bodies to influence other countries' policies, for example. limiting the risk of nuclear contamination to its own inhabitants. The role of the national State has undoubtedly changed. In Norway, the legislative power has been ‘weaked’ not only through the EEA Agreement, but also through, inter alia, the EEA Agreement. international environmental agreements and human rights conventions. However, it is a problem for Norway that we do not participate in the forums in Europe where decisions on Norwegian citizens are taken. There is reason for a distinction – as Foreign Commissioner Chris Patten made a point when he was in Norway in January – between the theoretical de jure sovereignty and practical de facto sovereignty. It is our lack of de facto sovereignty the report of the Power Investigation Committee, «Towards a Globalised Norway?», points out when it is said: ‘To the extent that the EEA Agreement is considered necessary, it may therefore leave a less room for power than an EU membership does.’ There are only two parties that do not consider the EEA Agreement to be necessary, as confirmed in the debate today. It is a recurring feature of the Government’s Europe Communication that it is descriptive in its form and to a lesser extent analysing or debating. To the right, it is a weakness in the communication that it does not discuss the implications of our relationship with the European Union for our democracy. EEA cooperation means that we import EU legislation without affecting decisions in the EU, and we have very little influence in the process leading to a proposal in the EU. Our ability to participate in the preparatory work on new legislative proposals was intended to be a form of compensation so that we could not participate in the decision-making process. Norway participates with Norwegian officials in more than 200 committees under the Commission. But such expert participation really offers very little opportunity to influence the design of legislative proposals. These expert groups have been used more for brainstorming than for discussing concrete legislative proposals. Norwegian experts do not participate in the same way as colleagues from EU countries, and they always meet as observers who sit on their own. Participation in the expert groups does not give us equivalent influence. Another aspect not described in the notification is related to the EFTA side’s request for adaptations. If EFTA countries wish to grant exemptions or transitional arrangements for certain acts, the EFTA countries' requirements are dealt with in the Council without the EFTA countries being consulted or having their problem raised. Some Member States are significantly more aware of their use of national experts in the Commission, a system that we also have in matters of particular concern to Norwegian interests. A part can be made here to make better use of the potential for influence. As a result of the enlargement process, we are now facing major and growing problems of getting through to our priorities. Recently, EFTA countries were excluded from a maritime safety-related sample. There is reason to recall that Norway has almost 50 pst. of the coastline of Europe. Norway's EU ambassador, Einar Bull, stated that the trend is clear. We're on our way out, he said. Our people in Brussels are clearly saying that this is a trend and not an isolated case. One thing is our ability to influence the Commission. Well so crucial is our ability to influence the council, that is. Member States. The European Parliament is also becoming more important, all the time when it has strengthened its role in decision-making in the EU through the so-called codecision procedure. The Government is asking for a ‘significant national commitment’ in order to safeguard our interests in the European cooperative. The notification should therefore discuss what measures could constitute this national promise. For its part, when we come to voting later today, the right will support the proposals promoted by the Centre Party and the SV in terms of financial support schemes. We also want to explore the possibility of a ‘Norwegian parliamentary office’ in Brussels, as mentioned in the proposal, or a listening post, to see if this could be measures to remedy the democratic deficit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e914	I think maybe my post will be a little more positive, a little more offensive and a little bit more optimistic than the previous one. I mean, for example. Norway can rightly be defined as the closest foreign country in the EU. On 29 November 1994, work started on an active European policy to safeguard Norway’s interests in the EU and to strengthen contact with individual Member States. Among them are our closest neighbours and main trading partners. This is a relationship based on intergovernmental agreements and on the basis of the EEA Agreement. At the same time, it was important for Norway to contribute to a positive development in the new Europe that took shape after the fall of the Wall. We are committed as a nation to active action and to broad cooperation with European countries to meet the challenges facing Europe at the turn of the century. It is about contributing to peace, well-being and stability and developing equality, democracy and a good environment. These are cooperation structures between countries and regions and solidarity across previous dividing lines and, of course, qualification for EU membership of the central European candidate countries. Norway has led and pursue an active policy in our neighbourhoods. The Action Plan for the Accession Countries to the EU launched on 28 March is, for example, Mainly targeting Poland and the Baltic countries. The action plan is an important public contribution to increased contact and a key political signal to the candidate countries. In our neighbourhoods, the development of Russia is crucial for Norway. Here, the European Union is and will become a central player. In providing the northern dimension of the EU, Norway and the Nordic countries have been important precursors, including through the various North Region Cooperation Councils. I would like to mention that the Nordic Council now has a working group such as: is in favour of a funding conference for public and private donors with a view to coordination and financial support for concrete existing projects in Russia as part of the northern dimension of the EU. The EU also plays a crucial role in the development of human rights in Turkey, which gained candidate status at the Helsinki meeting in 1999. We welcome this. Over the years, we have had a broad dialogue with Turkey, where human rights are an important component. The Turkish membership of the EU is, of course, a prerequisite for the concrete follow-up of the action plan adopted in the light of democratic developments. It is also interesting, perhaps in brackets, that it is likely that the EU will provide, at least contribute to, an improvement in human rights in Turkey, and that after years of involvement of the Council of Europe in this matter. It also says a little about the EU as a foreign policy actor, or as a dominant actor. An important development today is the EU as a foreign policy player. One example is the EU's resolute action when the Bush administration threw in the years of an agreement on nuclear weapons with North Korea. Another example is the EU’s leading role in ensuring development in the world’s poorest countries. The EU was recently the host and co-organiser of the UN Conference on the Least Developed Countries. In this field, the EU is in fact Norway’s leading alliance partner. This concerns both the decision on duty-free and quota-free market access for MUL products and the aid policy, where our development minister's closest ally is just the EU. There is close cooperation between Norway and the EU, with regular consultations and mutual information. Both to ensure driving rules in the international trade regime and to strengthen UN organisations, the EU will have a leading role as a political player in the foreseeable future. Norway’s influence will therefore also depend on close contact with the EU and European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e931	The most striking thing about the notification, suspension and debate in the Chamber is the lack of interest in the security policy situation. Most people are probably aware that the defence of Norway is only possible within the solidarity of the NATO Alliance. NATO defence is increasingly based on a division of labour between Member States, where each country makes its special contribution to the whole, not least in the case of international operations. The new development is that the EU has decided to establish its own military forces, based on a common defence and security policy. In the longer term, this could lead to a reduction in NATO's role as guarantor of security in Europe. Everything is now audible in the EU – mainly in France and Germany – by the United States-sceptic voices. These are the Kyoto Agreement, rocket suppression systems, the use of economic boycott, the Middle East issue and Turkey's role. The new administration in the United States will obviously focus its attention on parts of the world other than Europe. The United States will now, for example: withdraw their soldiers from Bosnia. That's one side of the picture. At the same time, we see that the European Union has created new lines of defence policy in Europe. By transferring military crisis operations from the WEU to the EU, countries such as Norway and Turkey have been sidings, although these countries have been among the pillars of the NATO flanks for half a century. We are now invited to put our soldiers at the disposal of the EU, but we have minimal influence on the preparations and political governance of the military operations in which we participate. However, neutral EU countries shall have full rights in the EU bodies governing these operations. Norway is at risk of falling between two chairs. On the one hand, we have a NATO where we are at risk of being marginalised due to changed US strategy and US scepticism in Europe. On the other hand, we see a growing military engagement on the part of the EU, where we are deliberately pushed beyond the sideline. Our rich energy resources and strategic location are a dual security sword. Many will argue that our security policy development is in favour of us becoming a member of the European Union and finding our defence policy anchoring in Europe. On the other hand, we feel that the EU is moving more and more in a federal direction, and that several central EU countries see the federal state as an ideal target for their policies. An important element in a federal state is precisely a common defence, security and foreign policy. We are facing an EU which, under the leadership of Germany, will strive to step up the pooling of competences on the single European institutions. At the same time, we feel that the elected element within the EU is weakening. Nor do they, at least in terms of foreign, security and defence policy, have our traditions in terms of relations between government and parliament. In France, the President is in charge of foreign policy. There is also a foreign minister, and there is very little left for a foreign committee in the French Parliament. Of course, the Assembly consents to the ratification of treaties, and it has the authority to grant them, but in particular other contacts on foreign policy issues between the French Parliament and the executive bodies are hardly. Germany too is very much influenced by the fact that Parliament does not often discuss foreign policy. The United Kingdom also shows the same trends, defence, foreign and security policy is a kind of prerogative for diplomacy and executive agencies. This is a completely different tradition than we have in Norway. It is therefore very easy to understand when these countries now want to liquidate the democratic element of the European defence system, namely the Assembly of the Western Union, and claim that there must be adequate parliamentary control through the national parliaments. What they really want is, of course, to transfer this competence to the European Parliament. A fundamental element of a federal state is a directly elected parliament competent in defence, foreign and security policy. These are the perspectives that we now have to look at in our eyes. So we're in a dilemma: are we going to risk reduced security by standing outside a defence-political centre of gravity with a somewhat uncertain future for NATO? Or are we going to go into a federalist Europe that will destroy many of our traditions, something very many of us dislike? I can understand that these elements are so far away from the discussion in this room, because it goes something across the usual front lines that are acting here, that have existed in the last thirty years. It's not that easy to change perspective, even if political realities change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e954	The development of the crime scene in recent years clearly shows that a growing proportion of the crime detected in Norway has ramifications beyond our own borders. Such trends are seen in a similar way in other countries. The serious threats this represents cannot be faced by each country alone, simply because the means available at national level are becoming inadequate in the fight against organised and cross-border crime. Therefore, the need for far closer and more effective cooperation between the judicial authorities of the countries has increased. The EU has responded to this challenge by developing extensive intergovernmental cooperation between the Member States of the Union to combat serious crime and other threats to the stability and security of society. This cooperation takes place within the framework of the third pillar of the EU. By the Government, it has been considered very important to link Norway as closely as possible to this cooperation. This is an area where our common interests with the EU are obvious, and we are therefore pleased that it is also open to us from the European Union that we can participate in judicial cooperation in various ways. Judicial cooperation was made a responsibility for the EU in the Maastricht Treaty in 1993, and the Amsterdam Treaty declared in 1997 that creating an area of freedom, security and justice is an objective. The basic idea here is to give individual citizens the right, of their choice, to live and reside freely within the EU's borders, to benefit from security and security against crime and abuse, and to final guarantees of fair treatment based on existing legislation. In the Tampere Declaration of October 1999, the EU Summit launched a wide range of measures to achieve such an ambitious goal. Harmonisation of laws, police and criminal cooperation forms an essential part of this process. Similarly, civil law cooperation aims to simplify and streamline the treatment of civil justice processes involving citizens of several EU countries. The measures will be completed by 2004 and therefore there is considerable activity in the EU in the field of justice policy. The government is following developments very closely and has found that it would use the opportunities granted to Norway as a non-member country to formally link us to parts of this judicial cooperation. Furthermore, there is no doubt that the EU is today the leading and most important actor in the European arena in terms of preventing and combating serious cross-border crime. The EU instruments are clearly characterised by more operationality, mutual commitment and targeted cooperation than is the case for other bodies dealing with crime problems in our part of the world. The government therefore considers cooperation with the EU in this area to be crucial. Cooperation will continue to be based on national decisions taken in the framework of Norwegian law. Among the most fundamental measures that the EU is now working on to ensure its citizens against crime and lawlessness, to which Norway is more or less linked, I would like to mention: Europol cooperation, through which police authorities in EU Member States join forces to seek to prevent and reduce the most serious organised crime that is spreading increasingly across borders. As the first non-member country, Norway has now concluded a cooperation agreement with Europol to be signed in Stockholm on 30 May. The agreement ensures practical participation of Norwegian police in Europol’s activities, including: through the secondment of a police liaison officer at the Europol headquarters in The Hague. The cooperation agreement will shortly be presented to the Stortinget in its own roll-out proposal.Schengen cooperation, which harmonises border controls and intensifys police and criminal law cooperation. On the basis of our cooperation agreement with the EU of 18 May 1999 and following the approval of the Council of Ministers of 1 December 2000, we were known to enter into the Schengen cooperation on 25 March this year. The experience so far is good. Norway has established appropriate structures and procedures to meet the requirements of the Schengen acquis and we are recognised as a good partner in cooperation. It has already been shown that police cooperation through the Schengen Information System, SIS, has produced good results in us. We are also actively involved in discussions with the EU on the further development of the Schengen acquis within the framework of the so-called Joint Body.Eurojust, which involves close and practical cooperation between prosecution authorities in EU countries. The Swedish EU Presidency has indicated that representatives of the Norwegian Public Prosecutor’s Office are welcome to attend selected meetings as an observer. The Ministry of Justice has agreed to this invitation.The European Police College, which facilitates cooperation on qualitative improvement in police training in the EU. Police high school in Norway has been present at some meetings in this context. Preparation of conventions on judicial cooperation in criminal matters. These will make cooperation on cross-border criminal matters increasingly effective. To the extent that these have proved to be Schengen-relevant, the EU has presented them to Norway with an offer of support from our side, which the Ministry of Justice has chosen to do. In addition, various EU presidencies have invited Norwegian representatives to attend meetings and conferences on specific issues of judicial cooperation. This applies, for example: cooperation on principles and instruments for general crime prevention activities. The government attaches great importance to privacy and data security considerations and has therefore prioritised reviewing these aspects of cooperation with the EU. Judicial cooperation with the EU does not undermine our commitment to other European areas of justice and police cooperation. The Government remains committed to Norway's active participation in European bodies such as the Council of Europe, Interpol, which has a high level of activity in Europe, and Baltic Sea cooperation. Nordic police cooperation is very close and particularly important for combating crime in our neighbourhoods. Overall, the Government has thus established valuable cooperation relations in Europe with regard to joint efforts to prevent, clarify and rectify acts of gross international crime. It is a goal to strengthen and further develop such cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e998	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1001	Police and judicial cooperation within the EEA area is an example of how countries that are also outside the EU can contribute positively to sensible and constructive cooperation in an important policy area. Combating international crime is such an area. And I understand that the Government has now also negotiated an agreement on Europol and its links with Europol, and I assume that a proposition here will be promoted as soon as the agreement by the European Union has been dealt with. I also understand that there is an agreement that the Government has a strong desire to be completed in Stortinget in this session. The latter, of course, creates a great deal of pressure on the Foreign Affairs Committee and on the Stortinget, so we must be allowed to discuss and look at it, but I have a great understanding of the need for implementation as quickly as possible. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice about the experience of the Schengen area in which Norway is part, and that the Norwegian increase joined the Dublin Convention. A number of premises were made by Stortinget, at least from a number of parties, on what this could have had an impact on the refugee and asylum policy we wanted to pursue – a humane refugee and asylum policy, which took the necessary account of the background to the refugees and asylum seekers and their need for protection. I would like to challenge the Minister of Justice to inform you a little about the experience that Norway has had since this convention was passed on to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1008	I am afraid I cannot give the representative Steensnæs any very complementary answer, and the reason for this is that, after all, it has only been a short time since the Schengen Convention was implemented, and as far as I am aware, the Dublin Convention, which is, moreover, the prime responsibility of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. What I can say, and as I also said in the post, is that in the case of the Schengen Convention, the experience is so good. But it is too early to say about the Schengen Information System. We are at a stage where we feel that most of what we are doing is entering information, but we are approaching a stage in which some of the information that others have also entered into the Schengen Information System will be information we benefit from on our side. I don't think I can give any more complete answers than this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1013	It is good to be done with the Norwegian domestic debate on courts and police and move on to the international, and I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice so strongly underlined the importance of the cooperation we have with EU countries. Steensnæs mentioned the possibilities we have, despite being a non-member. I wish we could once come into a situation where we can highlight the amazing opportunities we get as a member. And when Steensnæs also focuses on the humane aspect of refugee and asylum policy, I want to assume that international crime has very little to do with humanity, it has a lot to do with brutality, evil and awfully heavy human creatures. And I particularly want to refer to the cooperation we have in Europol, because Europol is the most important action of the EU countries to combat serious organised crime. Europol’s mandate is to combat such dire issues as drug trafficking, illegal immigration, theft of vehicles, trafficking in human beings including child pornography, bribery and corruption, the smuggling of radioactive items, terrorism and money laundering. These are some of the most difficult issues we have at all, and here, through the agreement we have now reached with Europol, we will be able to benefit from formalised cooperation in Europe on these issues. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice could now confirm that we have adopted such an agreement quite soon, and I would like to ask: Will the Minister of Justice, for example. through the annual budgetary procedures, ensure that Norway becomes a driving force to make the best possible use of cooperation — in particular with Interpol — in the coming period, despite the fact that we are not members of the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1022	How we are going to do this in the individual budgetary procedures, as the representative here next asks, will I come back to the individual budgetary procedures. But what I can stress is that for the Norwegian police and the fight against crime in Norway, it is very important that the cooperation we can have with both Europol and Interpol is well developed and that we really take advantage of the opportunities we have for such cooperation. And it is not primarily to be okay with either Europol or Interpol, but in our own interest that we will do what is sensible and important in relation to those bodies, among other things. deploy liaison officers, as provided for in Europol, and as we do in other contexts of international cooperation. There is also sometimes a need for money, and we have to give it, but there are small sums, probably, in relation to what we can get back from fighting crime by such close cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1027	The objectives and instruments outlined in the communication for judicial cooperation, I think the vast majority of people in this Chamber will agree. It is about transparency, about democracy and about a human asylum and refugee policy. The question is well how our cooperation partners in the field of justice deal with these in, and separately, high-level principles. At the Stockholm meeting of Justice and Home Affairs Ministers in February, there was surprisingly strong criticism of several EU countries. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees, the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the UN Secretary-General openly criticised the asylum and refugee policy of the EU countries and even claimed that some EU countries violate the rules of the Geneva Convention. I would like to ask: does the Minister of Justice think that this criticism is justified? And if the Minister of Justice believes that this criticism is justified, how does Norway deal with this criticism against our cooperation partners in the area of justice?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1036	There are several representatives who clearly live in the error, which I do not do, that the Minister of Justice is still responsible for immigration and refugee policy. But I can still say something. It is clear that Norway is committed to complying with international rules and requirements in relation to asylum and refugee policy, and if there is justified criticism of other countries related to it, we will be concerned that other countries also comply with international rules and requirements such as: The UN High Commissioner stands by. And we ourselves are committed to complying with the expectations and demands of the UN High Commissioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1041	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1045	Not long ago, Stortinget debated a statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. One important point in the U.D. document was that Norway is now committed to tackling foreign policy challenges that come from a wide range of sources, such as the US, Russia and the EU. In this multidimensional drawing, European policy seemed to be in place. I found reason to doubt that point, for the Foreign Minister's speech, which was in many respects Prospective, just lacked assessments of important developments in Europe. In this case, the foreign minister's speech was earlier this year, which is also the essence of the big message we are discussing here today. This message shows that the EU is the starting point for Norway’s global policy. And not enough, mainly Norway should be associated with the EU in world policy. This view is so marked that there are questions about the Government that Norway should have its own foreign policy, regardless of the EU. In the light of Norwegian foreign policy history until now, the message seems to indicate a change in course here. Our cooperation with our close neighbours is, of course, an up-to-date matter. The point is that the EU's foreign policy ambitions are strongly increasing – the Union sees itself as an increasingly important player on the global stage. Are the Union's foreign policy views in line with Norwegian interests? Yes, said the leader of the foreign committee earlier today. Saying forever and forever was in the air. But the answer is not so obvious, either in relation to Norway's Atlantic policy, to Norwegian interests in the north or to Norway's involvement in the third world. Some of this gets problematic and discusses, and it's unfortunate. When the government points out the EU as the leader of its global policy, we should at least expect nuanced views to be put on the table. What kind of Europe do we want? I see that the Government perceives the EU as the ‘centre of cooperation in our continent’. What is it important to cooperate on in this case? What should be on the agenda for cooperation in Europe, in the Norwegian sense? For Norway, it should be a serious matter to engage in the debate on the uncertain future of democracy, which is taking place on the European arena, which is about an increasingly tense relationship between citizens and those in power. The EU is referred to by enthusiasts as a peace project. Yes, the EU's fathers dream in their time of creating peace in Europe through economic integration. Today the perspective is different. The EU is committed to becoming a power in the world, with plans to act outside its territory, politically and militarily. Then the peace argument comes in a new and much more problematic light. Furthermore, the democratic downturn in the EU Member States is an increasing threat to peaceful development in Europe. This maturity is also experienced by Norway under the EEA Agreement. We have every reason to comment on what's going on. The leading point is that national parliaments are giving legislative power to EU bodies that are not under the control of the public. The state is referred to as a ‘democratic deficit’, a commercial expression of shifting away from popular sovereignty to a de facto government of officials and businessmen. Historically the clock is turned back. Against this undemocratic regime, the protest rises, and naturally, in the sphere between rulers and peoples, who are constantly expanding, the extremists also get a greater room for manoeuvre. The end of this doesn't know anyone, but it's dangerous. Democracy and peace hang together, fail one, shake the other too. But the European message does not take this situation seriously. What is really a historical drama is being captured in a bureaucratic language and made invisible. For example, the message states that ‘ensuring people’s influence in lockouts that are important to EU citizens will be a key challenge’. The formula is interesting. It does not communicate the crisis of democracy and, in effect, defends the EU system. The formula does not capture the core point, which is the following: The legislation must have its origin in general, either directly or through selected broadcasts. If this mechanism is corrupted, the cure will not be to ensure people's influence, as stated in the message. It will not be enough to send more questions to organisations, as the EU Commission leader Prodi is in favour. The power must again be anchored in elected bodies, which not only in theory, but also in practice can be controlled by the people through elections. For Norway, this will become a question in the first row to take a specifier with the EEA. And that can happen without free trade or other financial interests coming into danger. If money was set up against democracy, the choice should still be obvious. Norwegian European policy should have democracy on its programme. Norwegian European policies should strike a blow so that countries and regions within the world are able to deal with their policies in accordance with natural policies. Norwegian European policy should say no to federalism.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1062	The issue of Norwegian membership of the EU has been one of the major political issues in our country. Equally full, it is striking how much agreement there is on practical European policy. Norway outside the EC, Norway outside the EU, has pursued a policy of close cooperation and coordination with the European Member States. It was and it's the Labour Party line, and it was in practice the Center Government line. I note the same broad consensus on the broad lines of the Europe Communication. This is a strength for Norwegian interests in relation to our allies and cooperation partners in Europe. The next major crossroads for cooperation in Europe is the enlargement of the EU and the forthcoming enlargement of NATO. There are many paradoxes in Norwegian policy, one of which is this: While there are very divided opinions about the view of Norwegian membership of the EU, there is almost unanimous political support for other countries' membership of the EU and enlargement of the EU. What seems certain is that new EU Member States will become our partners in the EEA. Norwegian businesses and private individuals are given rights and obligations in new countries, and the new countries receive similar rights from us. In this way, we will be directly affected by enlargement – with new challenges and new opportunities. In this work, as in a number of other areas in recent years, our EEA Agreement is the basis for agreements and arrangements with the EU. The EEA Agreement was our response to the great economic change of the 1980s and 1990s in Europe. Now we are meeting new policies in important areas that are not covered by the EEA Agreement. This puts us in a new situation. Some say that the answer is today, that Norway should become a member of the EU. The Labour Party and the Government will open up a new assessment of Norwegian membership of the EU if enlargement has actually started, and there have been significant changes in the people’s attitude to the issue. We're not there today. But there's no one given to issue guarantees about the time of history over the next four years. Norway therefore needs freedom of action. When enlargement starts, we should assess Norway’s situation and carry out an overall review of its interests. For the time being, the EEA Agreement is the starting point for our relations with the EU. That is why we must take good care of this agreement. When we negotiated with the EU in the early 1990s, the entire Norwegian community gained new knowledge about the EU and how the community worked. We've lived on the power roof and the knowledge base from the early 1990s. Now we need a new power cap, not least in the administration, but also in the organisations and businesses. As important as our knowledge of the EU is the EU’s knowledge of us. During the early 1990s, the doors were open and the knowledge of Norway spread. It was about knowledge of agriculture and fisheries, our scattered settlement, our oil and gas policy, our experience of management at and around Svalbard, relations with Russia and the environmental challenges in the north. Neither is such knowledge lasting. We have no right of veto for the EU to take decisions on failing knowledge of Norwegian matters. Therefore, we must promote Norwegian interests in a way that also wins respect and recognition from our allies and cooperation partners. Cooperation with Russia is an important part of the Government’s Europe policy. We have, through good and difficult years, asserted our interests to our neighbor in the East with firmness and predictability. Norwegian policy has taken security and strength from our anchoring in an Atlantic and a European framework. Stability in the north has been an important part of European political order. After the Cold War, we have contributed to the fact that cooperation with Russia in the north has become part of wider European cooperation, including: through the development of Barents' cooperation. It is important for Norwegian security and for the stability of the northern regions that both the Atlantic and the European framework are maintained. It demands the way we maintain our relations with Russia, and it demands our ability to maintain a good dialogue with our Atlantic and European partners. This task is to be given special importance at a time when we are meeting a new administration in the United States and an EU that defines its relationship with Russia again. The EU-Russia Summit last week again showed that the EU appears to be an increasingly active foreign policy player. The EU countries proposed the long-term construction of a common economic area between the EU and Russia and increased cooperation in areas of Norwegian interest, including energy, environmental protection, nuclear safety and military crisis management. Leadership in Russia is placing increasing emphasis on developing a comprehensive and close relationship with the EU, both economically and politically. It is positive that the EU and Russia develop and deepen their relations. However, it is also a challenge for Norway to choose from the Russian side to have a different approach to European and Nordic countries based on whether they are inside or outside the EU. Over the 1990s, new transparency has made it possible to address tasks that have been unsolved for a long time, not least in the areas of environment, nuclear safety and safety at sea. We are now meeting a new Russian leadership that re-establishes the state's structures, and where central power is stronger in relation to the regions. We continue to meet openness, but also a stronger willingness to self-marker and more profiled attitudes towards the outside world. We can also label this in the northern regions. Norway will work for balanced solutions to the major common challenges we face in defining the Barents Sea or cooperation in areas such as fisheries, nuclear safety, the environment and energy. We are ready to take new steps, but we are also ready to take the time to ensure satisfactory solutions. Norway will meet Russia with firmness, predictability and willingness to cooperate – based on our own experience and our anchoring in a European and an Atlantic framework. In the north, we care for important Norwegian interests, but it is also in a broader European interest to continue our traditions with the steady enforcement of our sovereignty over Norwegian land and sea areas. And it is in a broader European interest that Norway takes seriously the task of ensuring sustainable management of the environment and natural resources in the major maritime and rural areas where responsibility lies with Norway. Therefore, this is part of Norwegian European policy that will require increased attention and commitment to the time ahead. Europe's future is our future. Europe's challenges are our challenges. An active European policy is essential to safeguard Norwegian interests. That requires debate. That is what the Government has invited in the European message.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1106	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1109	Let me first say that I think there is a broad consensus in the Storting – at least I can join much of what the Prime Minister said – about the general role Norway should play in European cooperation, in the pan-European forums, and I would not least stress and think it was positive that the Prime Minister said so much about our relationship with Russia. This shows that we have a whole range of challenges in European cooperation that go beyond our very relationship with the European Union. With regard to the question of membership of the European Union, the Prime Minister said that the Government and the Government Party are open to a debate on a new application for and when the enlargement of the EU is underway and a substantial change in opinion is taking place. If I do not remember correctly, it was communicated from the last national meeting in the Workers' Party that an application for membership could not be considered until spring 2005. In brackets, there is a 100th anniversary of a Union resolution in 1905, so whether it will be a psychologically beneficial time will bring you back. But more interestingly, does the Prime Minister think it is natural that a new application for EU membership should be sent just before a major election, before the voters can express their views on the issue of membership through that election? And secondly, if the Prime Minister opens up the possibility of this happening already in the forthcoming enlargement period, it will also be interesting to hear his view of the procedure in the event of a new application for membership. Wouldn't it be natural for the Norwegian people to be asked if one should at all search? And if it does, it wouldn't be right to have a new referendum on the outcome of the negotiations, because it could mean a lot, among other things. for people in primary industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1120	First, a brief comment on what Mr Bondevik said in relation to broad consensus. It is easy to say, but I think that Bondevik and I fully agree that it is important for Norway as a nation that there is a broad consensus on the main issues relating to Norway's relationship with other countries, the cooperation in NATO and our cooperation with EU countries through the EEA Agreement. There are important national issues that we address, and there are important national interests that we pursue, both in relation to the EU and also in the dialogue and cooperation with Russia in terms of fisheries, marine management, Svalbard and other issues in the North. Therefore, it is gratifying that there is broad consensus. Then to the question of any membership request. In that discussion, there are two simple points of view, both of which I think are crazy. One is to say that Norway is in any case going to apply for membership for the next major period. I wouldn't recommend that. It's a simple point of view, but it's a wrong point of view. The second is to say that Norway should in any case not apply for membership during the next major period. It is also a simple point of view, but it is a wrong point of view, because it has been shown time and time again, at the latest in the context of the EEA Agreement and the application for membership early in the 1990s, that we are not able to predict the course of history and especially not at what pace and with what force Europe can change, just as we managed to predict the fall of the Berlin Wall. Therefore, Norway needs freedom of action, and that is why we have rejected the two simple points of view, namely that it is 100 pst. Probably we're going to search, or it's 100 pst. I'm sure we're not going to search. What we have pointed out is the need for freedom of action, and then we have set out that at least two conditions must be met. One is that there must have been significant changes in Norwegian opinion. So you could have different assessments of the probability of that, but there's one condition that has to be met. The second is that the membership process must be under way. In any case, the Norwegian people will decide this through a referendum if that question is raised again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1127	Of the two simple points of view mentioned by the Prime Minister, only one of them is that you should not seek, that is, be foreshadowed by something heavy. Although he does not say that we should search in the next period, it is nevertheless possible to have a vision. The right has a vision of where Norway should be located. When it's time to realize it, it's something else. However, this is not my question. My question is about our anchoring in the Atlantic community. Norway is very dependent on good transatlantic relations, and there is more than enough conflict material across the Atlantic covering the whole range from purely military and security policy issues to trade policy issues and others. There are two heavy players in the Atlantic community. It is the United States and the EU that are increasingly setting the tone on the European side. And it is not unreasonable to say that for Americans, Europe and the EU are far-reaching synonymous concepts. However, it is a major problem for Norway, because that means that transatlantic relations are created by a unit where we do not have influence and where we are not members. My question to the Prime Minister is, what does he think we can do with this? Is there at all any adequate solution to this dilemma, or is it such that we have to admit that such good solutions do not exist?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1136	I do not believe that the Right believes that we should in any case apply for membership in the next period, or that the Right agrees that we should in any case re-examine the question of Norwegian membership in the next period. I rather feel that the Right is concerned with having the freedom to take action to re-examine the issue, and that the Right must also be concerned with taking the initiative for a new membership request and a new referendum if the polls indicate that there is a clear no-majority, even the warmest followers of Norwegian membership in the EU should not recommend. And then we are in that situation that as long as you don't say clearly no, but also not clearly yes, you have to have the opportunity there, and then you have to assess whether that possibility should be put into practice. It depends on how it goes with both the enlargement of membership and Norwegian opinion, because it is the Norwegian people who decide, through a referendum to the seventh and last, whether Norway should become a member of the EU. As far as the Atlantic community is concerned, I agree with some of the considerations put forward by the representative Petersen, among others. in view of the fact that Europe will play a growing and more important role in safeguarding its own security in the coming years. Then you can have different opinions about how regrettable it is that Norway is not fully involved in that cooperation, but we have to take that into account because we said no in 1994, and because it is uncertain when and whether the membership issue comes up again. This is how Norway can take care of its interests, work even more intensively with bilateral cooperation, both with the EU and the United States and with individual Member States, and also contribute. One reason why we are involved in the development of EU defence and security cooperation, that we have assigned 3,000 soldiers to participate in the crisis management forces, and that we are participating in Kosovo, is precisely that those operations are important in themselves, and that it is a way for Norway to demonstrate that we are contributing to European security, and thus also gain influence through dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1143	While the Labour Party’s main spokesman in the debate today has almost gone as the cat around the hot pot in Norway’s relationship with the EU, both the Prime Minister and, in particular, the Minister of Foreign Affairs have been commendably clear in their opinions. This means that once the Workers' Party and the Government have secured so-called freedom of action, there is no doubt that there is freedom of action to apply for membership for the next period of time. The Prime Minister has also confirmed this in his reply to Kjell Magne Bondevik. In today’s debate, the EU’s development in a more federalist direction has been central. These are economic and monetary union with a single currency, they are increasingly common laws, increased use of majority decisions, the single market and eventually joint military forces. I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question to which the spokesman for the Workers' Party today was not willing to answer, and it is as follows: What will it have for the Workers' Party and the Government's position on Norwegian EU membership if the EU's development in a more federalist direction only continues? I assume that the Norwegian Prime Minister has an opinion on one of the most striking developments in the EU today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1154	Firstly, it is the Norwegian people in a referendum who will decide whether Norway will ever become a member of the EU. And what is important is that we also agree on the procedures relating to how to present any new application for membership. But it's uncertain, because the world is uncertain, and it's hard to predict when or whether that question comes up again. So to the development of the European Union. What we are discussing today is Norway's relationship with the European Union. When we are not members of the EU, it is also limited in and on what kind of influence we have on the decisions taken by the EU. Nevertheless, it may be interesting to have assessments and views on it. Firstly, the EU is in a debate in which the different countries have different views. What characterises an organisation such as the EU, with independent countries participating in a commitment cooperation, is that one sees very differently, for example. concepts such as ‘federation’ or ‘closer cooperation’. Norway has made it possible for the EU to have a more effective environmental policy, to succeed in adopting common rules, for example: in order to avoid tax dumping and to succeed in adopting common rules as regards the rights of employees. If you call it more federal solutions, then there are solutions that Norway, and not least the workers and the environment, deserve to succeed in. This is the left-hand side of Europe very much concerned about the further development of the EU. But we're not interested in taking power and authority from the nation-states in matters that we think are best solved nationally. I have noticed that the proposal which, among other things, The German Social-Democratic Party has joined in calling for some transfer of power to Brussels in some areas – as other parties have opposed – but at the same time they have proposed that, for example: agricultural policy is increasingly traced back to the national country. To the extent that it can soften the representative Jacobsen, it is possible to take it with him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1165	Now we are getting closer to something that may become a little more interesting, namely whether the Norwegian government also has some points of view in which direction the European Union is actually going to evolve, because this is a matter where you have been walking around the hot pot for as long as you can imagine. When the Labour Party's leading foreign policy-maker, Blankenborg, was asked what his opinion was earlier today, he said: there is nothing in the message about it, therefore I do not believe anything about it. In fact, social democrats in Europe now have a very different view of whether they want a more federalist and closer Union project, or whether they want a more loose form of EU cooperation. If Norway had been a member of the EU and Jens Stoltenberg had been a prime minister in Norway, which of his social-democratic friends in Europe would he most agree with when it comes to the development of the EU – his French comrades, his German comrades or his British comrades?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1172	If Norway had been a member of the EU and I had been a prime minister at the same time, our opinion on the development of the European Union would have had a greater impact on the development of Europe, on the development of the applicant countries and, in fact, also on Norway. For it is important for Norway, even if we choose to stand outside the EU, what the EU decides for. I mean, for example. that it is one of the major historic peace projects that the EU is now opening up to the east, and one of the major and important debates is on what conditions and how rapidly the EU can expand to the east. When I was in AUF and Kristin Halvorsen was in Socialist Youth, we were in favour of pan-European cooperation and the dismantling of the military blocks. It is now being implemented in the EU. SV is not a driver. We want it intensely, but we could have been stronger drivers if we had participated in the debates that, among other things. is about transitional arrangements, under which conditions Poland and Hungary will become members of the EU, etc. I believe that part of the EU project is the debate and discussion on finding answers to difficult balances. Both the SV, the Labour Party and the left-hand side of Europe are interested in more transnationality, for example. in the management of capital forces. This is a big problem – as we do, among other things. now sees, in terms of maritime taxation, that tax dumping is taking place across Europe. Then we have to have more supranationality. If you can do it in the EU and if you are in favour of a Tobin tax globally, you could start by trying to get some common taxes in Europe, but even that is difficult. Stronger decision-making systems in Europe would thus strengthen the funding of well-being in Europe if successful, and other things could be brought back to the nation state. So I've noticed that the Germans, both in terms of industrial policy and agricultural policy, can think of bringing something more back. I don't think you could have put Norway in a booth. I think we would have supported some of what you think in Germany, some of what you think in France, and some of what you think in the United Kingdom. But we would have been involved in decisions that are important to the country – instead, we are now outside and watching others debate important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1184	These are interesting issues that it might be interesting to debate further. It was a sort of à la carte scheme that the Prime Minister now put up to pick a little from here and a little from there in terms of the different countries' attitudes towards the EU and make it the attitude he himself would stand for. But I want to go back to what I asked the Prime Minister questions about in my previous line. I asked two questions that the Prime Minister unfortunately was not near to answer. Now I give him another chance – that should be possible. One goes from the time perspective for a possible application for Norwegian EU membership for the next major period. Then it doesn't keep repeating, which the Prime Minister used almost all his line on, the arguments about freedom of action and the two extremes he won't take. It was communicated from the National Labour Party meeting last autumn that a possible application for membership would be made at the earliest in spring 2005, among others. I remember EU opponents Trond Giske put great emphasis on it. Therefore, my question to the Prime Minister is: Is this correctly understood? And would it be natural in this case to send an application just before a new decision is made, that is, before the voters through it have the opportunity to express their opinion? The second question went into procedure. When the Workers' Party submits that an application may be submitted during the next wholesale period, the lot should also have a clear position on the procedure around it. Moreover, there should be maximum national consensus on the date on which the issue becomes relevant. Is it so to understand that the Labour Party will vote in favour of a referendum also on whether an application should be submitted? And if there is a majority for that, and then negotiations, the Prime Minister will then go in for the people to express their opinion on the outcome of the negotiations – because it may be important for many voters, including those who opt for it. in the primary industries – i.e. in the case of two referendums? Since the Prime Minister opens a membership request in the next period, this is interesting to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1193	What I have done is to explain what conditions we believe must be fulfilled in order that it may again be relevant to address the membership issue. There may then be slightly different assessments, and there is also considerable uncertainty as to whether those conditions will be met both in the development of Norwegian opinion and in the pace of EU enlargement. Then we fully agree with Mr Bondevik that national consensus on procedures should be sought. In other words, if the EU membership issue is to be raised again, we must seek agreement on how the decisions are to be taken. In any case, it must be the people who finally make the decision on membership. The question is whether we should also have a referendum on submitting an application. We have not taken a decision on that. But what we've decided on is that it's the people in a referendum who decide the question of membership. Whether or not to have a referendum on applying is among the things I think it is wise that we seek the widest national consensus on, precisely because it is important to agree on the rules of the game on such an important national issue as the question of membership. So the probability that there will be an application at the end of the next period. It is not possible to say anything non-slip if it is unlikely or very likely. At least I think it is unlikely that we have come a little far into the process of applying for membership, but this will determine the development of Europe and the development of Norwegian opinion. What needs to calm down, and as I feel it is a point to make if you create the impression that this is almost something you should decide without the voters having to decide on it, is that it is undoubtedly the Norwegian people through a referendum who are going to take a final decision on the question of membership. Whether an application is then to be prepared, sent or launched just before or just after a roll call vote is not so crucial because it is a matter which is not decided in a roll call vote but which is decided by a referendum.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1202	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1205	I want to start by saying — in connection with the Prime Minister’s last reply — that the EU has just rejected the Tobin tax. In an interview in The Guardian, the head of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, says: The two pillars of a nation are the sword and the coin, and we've gotten both of us. The EU is developing a common defence and security policy with a common EU army and a single currency, i.e. the two characteristics of a nation, according to Prodi. What surprises me is that the bulk of the population, who if it had been up to them, had sent the application in the day would not have been for the great EU resistance, not problematizing this development. Integration towards a political union, towards a United States of Europe, is raging, and with the tyranny of the small ladders – at the same time. The Treaty of Nice opens up several majority decisions, transfers more power to the large countries and allows for different speed integration where the largest and most powerful countries can become an internal and leading group. The Social Democrats Schröder proposes a government-like Commission – a two-chamber system in a parliament with legislative powers, cross-border EU policies, common wage policy. Wages and salaries policy, says Schröder, is no longer a national issue with the existence of a single internal market and common monetary policy. Therefore, employers and employees need to strengthen their wage policy dialogue in the ‘Eurorum’, as he says. Foreign Minister Fischer follows up and says that the EU is going to evolve into a federation. Certainly not without crises or problems, but the pressure goes in that direction, he says. Decisions are moved from peoples to the market, to the inner-closed boards, to non-political bodies such as the central bank and the Court of Justice, to Brussels. These developments promote renunciation and weaken democracy. Therefore, SV will actively work towards membership of the Union and towards sending some EU request in the next period. We are already bound by EEA membership. Yes, that's right, but there's still a big difference between the EEA and full EU membership. The big difference is today EMU. No new candidate country, nor Norway if it should be, can say no to EMU. Yes to the EU therefore means yes to EMU. EMU has one objective, and it is to abolish monetary policy and limit fiscal policy as a policy instrument. Economic muscles have been moved from a political body to a central bank, which is prohibited for elected voters to instruct and which has one objective: low inflation. This cannot be seen in isolation from the Lisbon Summit as the EU's main project, namely that in 10 years' time the EU will win its competitiveness. So who are the losers and the winners in this game? Economic policy makes the poor poorer. Poverty is not gender neutral – most of the poor in the EU and in the rest of the world are women. EMU paves the way for greater room for manoeuvre for the market. Convergence requirements and the Stability Pact are binding on fiscal policies and leading to pressures on the public sector and employee rights. The EU Institute of Social Research has just demonstrated that convergence requirements have pushed for privatisation and poorer working conditions. A new and alarming report tells of increasing health and social exclusion, the increasing use of temporary contracts and increased flexibility on employers’ premises. So one could say that these are the same trends as one sees here in Norway. But as labour scientists Ebba Wergeland says, we are far from this level, because we have a low unemployment rate and a strong trade union movement and a work environment legislation that protects workers far by the way. In the event of a regional crisis in an economic and monetary union, there are three options for resolving the crisis when one can no longer pursue a maritime monetary and financial policy, namely: weakening employees' employment and pay ratios increase mobility greater common budget There is every reason to believe that increasing unemployment and the weakening of employment rights will be the result. I have noticed that Belgium is now proposing a direct EU tax, that there should be harmonisation of pensions, and that increased mobility should be desired, as the Commission has also said. It is these trends that we are particularly challenging the Workers' Party as part of the movement to take a decision and look closely at. Is this EU going to be a future?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1251	In 1994, when the debate went at its worst, there were many who were angry at me, and in the small village I live in, most of the anger was on me. They wrote readings, and in one of these readings, from an old friend, it said: Has the Engreet not understood that Europe has come to stay? I gave him right in that. What he probably meant to say was that the EU had come to stay. But we can say that the EU and Europe – however unreasonable it may be – have become synonyms in a way. It shows the important role and importance of the European Union in Europe today. It is difficult to pursue a European policy in this room or elsewhere in Norway without being dominated by the issue of Norwegian membership of the EU. It is also becoming more and more common that European policy should be about how the EU develops, i.e. ‘deep development’, as it is called in the EU — the less influence of small countries, if it is right, increased supremacy, increased interrelationship of different parts of society, etc., the dream of a federation of certain Heads of State, or the United States of Europe. This is of course an exciting debate, and it is interesting to hold such a debate, but the question is, what is the purpose of it? It has to lead to something. What are our conclusions, if any, to be used in this debate? I would say that the debate is, as it were, in the hands of our European policy, and that is a bit tragic. For what we are discussing is the European Union as a system – or the European Union as a phenomenon. That's the main thing. We are not going any further – we are discussing the EU, the EU organisation, not our policies in relation to the EU and the rest of Europe. I think it's a little bad. The European Union is there, the European Union is there, and we have to deal with the model that Europe now has. No one can deny or question the EU’s importance to Norway. Within this Union, our closest people are, both geographically – with a few exceptions – culturally, economically and politically. Our ability to interact with the EU is crucial for our own well-being, our own stability and our own development. This is why we are active – a little from the sideline, correctly – in other countries that want to join the EU. We recognise that enlargement to the east will contribute to stability in this part of the world, and probably also with significant ring-effects beyond that. Haakon Blankenburg pointed in its main post earlier today to a number of European countries and countries in the border area towards Central Asia not on the EU candidate list: Azerbaijan, Georgia, Armenia, Belarus, Ukraine — to mention some of them. But Russia is in a special position. Without development in Russia, we cannot expect development either in Ukraine, in the Caucasus or in Central Asia. A Russia in development and progress will be the engine for development and progress in these areas. A Russia that stands still, or even goes back, will bring these areas with it. Our Russia policy must be strengthened, but once again we must look to the EU. A Russia policy without the EU is meaningless. The EU will be crucial for growth and development in Russia. Russia is a country with very large resources in all areas, but has had some problems since the Union resolution in many areas. An active and solid Russian policy on our part requires increased knowledge of Russian thinking and Russian priorities and must be based on long-termity, predictability and transparency. I believe that one of the most important things in future European policy is the extent to which we are able to draw Russia closer to the European Community.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1268	Norway's main export industry, the fishing industry, is currently living with very unsatisfactory framework conditions. It will have to do all the time we stand outside the EU. The right considers that, in today’s situation, we can and must do more to seek to improve the situation of this industry — it has to do with central Norwegian interests. There are three areas where the Right will ask the Government to take a roof. Firstly, we must ensure that trade in fish to Central and Eastern Europe continues even after these countries become members of the European Union. We need to put in place good compensation schemes when free trade agreements with the candidate countries cease to exist in Norway today. Secondly, in the interests of development in the farming industry, the overall aim of trade policy must be to conclude the salmon agreement and to ensure that we are as secure as possible against new EU anti-dumping complaints. Thirdly, we must seek a renegotiation of Protocol 9 to the EEA Agreement. With regard to the negotiations that are now taking place in the candidate countries, it will be a little pretense to say, as the Government does in the Communication, that ‘Norway’s scope for action in the EU enlargement process is... limited’. The point is, rather, that we are excluded from the negotiations in the same way as we are excluded from the EU's efforts to coordinate the positions of the diverse requests for transitional arrangements from the candidate countries. Getting good compensation schemes for our fish exports will require a very close follow-up from the Government both to the candidate countries and to the EU. It simply requires a significant national promise, in order to use one of the Government’s own expressions. When Sweden, Finland and Austria became EU members and left EFTA, free trade in fish between Norway and these countries ceased. Norway thus lost important duty-free markets. Instead, Norway negotiated in 1995 a compensation agreement on duty-free export quotas for different fish products. Quotas correspond to a defined quantity and are not regulated after the development of the export market. In the case of eastward enlargement, Norway’s strongest growing market will be integrated into the EU. The result is an increase in barriers to trade in relation to these countries. To the right, the Government considers that the lessons learned from the EFTA extension and subsequent negotiations on a compensation agreement must be used. In the case of an eastern extension, Norway must instead seek to reduce the overall EU customs duties on the relevant fish stocks. The salmon agreement is the result of the EU Commission's bending in 1995-1996 to a protectionist pressure from Irish and Scottish breeders, who had difficulties competing with Norwegian salmon produced. The Commission threatened Norway with the use of the anti-dumping weapon, the only instrument available to Norway under the EEA and WTO Agreement. The Agreement expires on 30 June 2002. In its statement on aquaculture policy in January, the Minister for Fisheries said that the agreement ‘has worked well’ and that the Government’s objective ‘is to ensure the industry’s stability, long-term and foreseeable framework conditions for exports of salmon to the EU market’. I interpret this as the Government's aim for a renegotiation or a continuation of that agreement. Through the feed quota system and the concession regulation of new start-up and enlargement, the Government ensures that the supply of Norwegian salmon is limited in the EU market. Although Norwegian salmon exports to the EU despite the salmon agreement have shown a steady increase in recent years, Norway is now losing market shares. Other farmed nations, which have experienced a formidable growth in salmon production in the past, have also gained market share in the EU. Norwegian actors, such as Domstein and Statkorn Holding, are now seeing greater investment opportunities in Chile than in Norway. A new salmon agreement can thus help to reduce the growth potential of the farming industry and to lose Norway’s leading position in this area. Therefore, when the agreement expires, the Government has to consider how best to ensure market access for farmed salmon. The fact that Nutreco now has significant interests in former Hydro Seafood makes it less likely than before that the EU farming industry will be united to demand protectionist measures against Norway. At the same time, the salmon price in the EU has been broadly above the minimum level. Irish and Scottish breeders have thus gained better margins and weaker arguments for and interest in excluding Norwegian salmon. Increased scepticism against meat by consumers in EU countries may also make it easier to argue that the existing salmon agreement should not be extended. To this end, the Right will ask the Government to work towards the conclusion of the Agreement and to initiate a renegotiation of Protocol 9 with a view to increased market access, as the EEA opens.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1294	Norway is the country of opportunity. In a few areas, we see this more clearly than in the fisheries and aquaculture industry. Over the last 20 years, the industry has evolved into a significant export industry, and in 2000 the export value was more than NOK 31 billion. That whole 95 pst. production reaches more than 150 markets outside Norway, making Norway one of the world’s largest exporters of seafood. During the same period, fisheries policy has turned towards facilitating a profitable development in the fishing industry. We've come a long way, but the potential is much greater. Only parts of the marine capabilities have been exploited. This gives politicians a challenge. We need to facilitate the competitiveness of Norwegian seafood. We have specific natural advantages for aquaculture in Norway, but, in addition, to ensure stable and good growth, it is essential to provide good framework conditions. The Government’s objective is therefore to ensure optimal market access for Norwegian seafood through stable, long-term and predictable framework conditions in all markets. The EU is today the main market for Norwegian seafood, and exports to the EU are still increasing. However, the proportion of the export value going to the EU is reduced from 76 pst. from 1992 to approx. 60 pst. in 2000. This shows that Norway has somewhat reduced its dependence on the EU. There may be many reasons for this, including: the industry has given priority to developing new markets. However, I believe that the framework conditions for fish in the EEA Agreement are one of the reasons why industry chooses markets outside the EU to a greater extent than in the past. Trade in fish between Norway and the EU is regulated as known by a separate protocol to the EEA Agreement, Protocol 9. The agreement provides for customs freedom for more white fish products and reductions in customs duties for other fishery products and processed fishery products. For many products, Norwegian fish have thus achieved good preferential conditions through Protocol 9 to the EEA Agreement. However, important Norwegian products such as herring, mackerel, salmon, shrimps, pectinidae and marine crabs are not covered by customs reductions. These products meet customs duties of up to 20 pst. on exportation to the EU. The products exported to the EU are clearly reflected in the customs regime we have. The customs regime system is that customs duties are increasing when processed. As a result, approx. 70 pst. of our exports to the EU unprocessed. Another consequence is that Denmark is our largest market for salmon – not because they have a high level of consumption, but because it is where the salmon is processed. That's where we find the jobs that are based on Norwegian raw material. The EEA Agreement makes Norway part of the EU internal market. This means that Norwegian companies have access to this market under the same conditions as EU enterprises in the areas where EU legislation is fully incorporated into the EEA Agreement. It also implies that the EU has waived the use of trade policy measures against Norwegian companies in the form of anti-dumping measures or other Community legal instruments. Unfortunately, this is not the case for the fisheries sector. Protocol 9 also does not finally clarify the issues of State aid and the free transit of fishery products over Norwegian territory. Nor have any solutions been found to ensure that anti-dumping measures will not be applied to fishery products from EFTA countries. The salmon agreement, where the EU threatened to introduce anti-dumping measures against Norwegian companies, illustrates the importance of this issue for the Norwegian fishing and aquaculture industry. Issues related to anti-dumping measures will have increasing topicality in the future, not least because the salmon agreement expires next year. The question of how the framework conditions for salmon industry should look after this is now being addressed. The government has been in dialogue with the European Commission on several occasions with a view to discussing unresolved issues concerning the trade regime for fish. My experience is that it is not only difficult to clarify unresolved issues in the EEA Agreement, even to resolve issues of a more technical nature, such as: converting the duty-free quota for shrimps into a flat rate of duty is difficult without the inclusion of several elements. This impression was also confirmed during Commissioner Fischler’s visit to Norway two weeks ago. As Norway is considered a third country, it is also difficult to have the Commission set aside time to meet Norway on fish. This is likely to be reinforced when the EU is expanded by up to 13 new Member States. The EU enlargement process towards the east is an important building block in the work of a more cohesive and collaborative Europe. It also provides a historic opportunity to create lasting peace, democracy and well-being through previous dividing lines in Europe. The EU enlargement process poses challenges for new EU Member States to become parties to EEA cooperation. For Norwegian fishing industry, EU enlargement to the east means that EFTA free trade agreements with the candidate countries are replaced by the EEA Agreement, i.e. the replacement of free trade in a number of important products by customs duties of up to 20 pst. Norway and the EU have previously negotiated compensation for the loss of free trade. Norway and the EU may have different perceptions of compensation as a result of the enlargement process. On the Norwegian side, however, it is assumed that experience from previous negotiations will be based also on the forthcoming enlargement process. The starting point for dialogue with the EU must be a common desire for the best functioning internal market in the EU/EEA for marine food. This will also meet the EU's needs for seafood, both for the processing industry and for its own consumers. It is the government’s view that in the future, the EEA Agreement solutions will be poorly suited to safeguard the interests of the fishing industry in relation to the EU. It could be difficult to negotiate better market access for Norwegian exports within the EEA. The EU has its own interests in the fisheries sector and is negative to change the trading conditions for Norwegian fish in the EEA Agreement. However, the government will continue the dialogue with the EU on unresolved issues in Protocol 9, as well as matters of a more technical nature. Furthermore, it will be important to ensure that the negative impacts of EU enlargement towards the east are minimised for industry. This can in particular be ensured through close contact with the candidate countries. Finally, I would like to say a brief word about the cooperation of resources between Norway and the EU. Fishing cooperation with the EU on our common resources in the North Sea was over-taxed in relation to the population base for many years. This has been the main reason why bottom fish stocks in this area are in a very poor condition. An important step to change this trend was taken when Norway and the EU agreed for the first time in 1999 on long-term management strategies for sea, cod, haze and plaice. By following these strategies, Norway and the EU will jointly be able to contribute to a significant improvement in the pattern of taxation. This is important in order to ensure a stable long-term yield from these populations. As a result of the particularly critical situation of cod in the North Sea, Norway and the EU have embarked on new cooperation in order to identify measures to ensure the reconstruction of this stock. In the first instance, the cod quota has been reduced by 40 pst. In addition, the parties agreed to close a larger North Sea area for two and a half months during the spawning period of the cod. My impression is that the European Commission is increasingly aware of the major steps that need to be taken to improve fisheries policy. The Commission has produced its own Green Paper which is now being examined in the Member States. This Green Paper goes a long way in addressing the essential issues, for example: on fishing capacity. We will ensure that we make the Commission aware of our assessment of the measures proposed, but we are spectators of the decisions that come out of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1336	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1339	The fishing industry has experienced a very interesting development and also has a significant potential for further development, despite the fact that our main market is not covered by fisheries exports in general but has special agreements. The fact that exports to the EU have fallen from 76 pst. until 60 pst., as the council also said, does not mean that the volume has fallen. It may also be beneficial to spread across several markets as long as the framework conditions within the EU are as they are today. But it's clear it's important to maintain contracts. It is important to ensure stable, predictable framework conditions, and I noticed that the Council of State said that the EEA Agreement is poorly suited to meeting the challenges facing the fishing industry in the future. In isolation, I have no problem seeing part of the challenges and problems associated with the EEA agreement from the fisheries side. At the same time, the EEA Agreement is a comprehensive agreement with more than one sector in mind and has to be balanced between different considerations. In this case, agricultural interests will also be linked to fisheries interests, and this difficult but important balance is known. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State what measures he sees in place to improve the framework conditions currently established in the EEA Agreement, as he characterises this agreement as not suitable. One thing is to continue the dialogue on Protocol 9, but with such a characteristic one obviously needs a much stronger instrument. So I also want to ask you a little bit about the cooperation. Governments talked about resource cooperation. I would like to ask: what cooperation do you have with regard to pollution in the North Sea, and especially with regard to emissions from Sellafield?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1348	What was my point of mentioning quantum development, but also the development of processed products, is that the trade conditions that we have affect the exports that we get. We have the most exports where the customs is the least. When exports of fish products to the EU have increased, it is mainly the export of unprocessed fish products that has increased. Then the question becomes: what steps can be taken to improve this? I understood it this way: how can you renegotiate and improve the EEA Agreement? It has been tried on a number of occasions, including the previous government, to address specific issues that are not satisfactory. The answers we receive are actually quite clear that this is not an interest on the part of the European Union. It is even difficult to get them to join and set aside time to discuss technical details related to this agreement. We have no power forcing the EU to engage in such a dialogue with us. It is also difficult to imagine a situation in which, as a non-member, we should have stronger instruments to engage in better and closer dialogue. We work together on the resource management side and believe that we ourselves have helped to increase the EU's understanding of the need for important actions. We think that's good, and it's about time. Similarly, other bodies on the environment cooperate on pollution issues. Among other things, we have organised conferences in Norway where this has been the topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1360	As the Council of State said, we are the world's largest exporter of seafood, and the potential is great. It's almost unlimited. Therefore, market access is important and therefore the marine environment is important. It was said that our share of exports of salmon to the EU has fallen from 76 pst. to 60 pst. So it's been said that you've gone down a little bit on the market, and that spreading isn't that dangerous. It is clear that if we had had a larger quantity, we could have maintained a high market share in that market too, because there has been no expressed wish from Norwegian exporters to reduce total deliveries to the EU, but because there have been fewer quantities, that share has fallen. This is largely due to the salmon agreement we have. Does the Council of State feel that it is beneficial for that salmon agreement to continue? So to what the representative Steensnæs took up in his line, and what the council replied to. I felt he was on his way out of the jump edge, but then he took a row stop. What the Council of State really says is that, to the extent that the potential for further processing of Norwegian fish around the coast should be exploited, there is in reality only one response, and there is EU membership, which will fully safeguard the interests of the coast, so that processing can take place on Norwegian soil. Secondly, I think that what the representative Steensnæs raised in relation to Sellafield should be emphasised much more strongly. We know that there is one matter for consideration where we are looking for new emissions at the same level for six new years, and the emissions have a substance with a half-life of 200,000 years, so even for people who have to work in the eternal perspective, it is quite a long perspective on this. Former Environment Minister Berntsen mentioned a colleague of the British Government with an unparliamentary word that I shall not repeat, but is it not soon time for this government to put its foot down in relation to the emissions that come from England and threaten the marine environment along our entire coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1369	The representative Gabrielsen seems to think that this salmon agreement that we have is an abomination, something that we would rather avoid. I doubt you'll find anyone in Norway who disagrees. The salmon agreement with the EU is not something that we have concluded because we wanted it. The salmon agreement with the EU is something that we have concluded because the EU has condemned us for dumping, and they have condemned us for the illegal use of subsidies. Therefore, we were able to negotiate the salmon agreement as an alternative to dumping duties. And I have to say, a salmon industry that from 1997 had had 14 pst. customs duties on all fresh and processed salmon would look significantly different from the salmon industry we know today, which has a quite significant surplus. Therefore, the salmon agreement has been good. If the salmon agreement is to be replaced by something else, we'll see. Our starting point is, of course, that the trade in salmon should be as free as possible. But it's not that it's up to us to decide it. The formalities surrounding the termination of an anti-dumping proceeding are that the earlier parties to the investigation can reasonably easily have the matter re-examined. The logic of dumping is a little bit special. It's logical just for those who have the benefits of it. This is because measures have been implemented, and the measures have worked, so it has been proved that there has been dumping and that the salmon agreement has worked. It's a catch 22 situation for us. As far as Sellafield is concerned, I just have to point out that the Environment Minister has said several times in the Questionnaire: it has been taken up as a strong mark on the part of Norway that this is something that is not being found.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1378	The Minister for Fisheries was concerned about the consequences for Norway, for the Norwegian fishing industry, of the forthcoming enlargement of the EU. Norway shall conduct compensation negotiations with the countries with which Norway has bilateral agreements, and these are compensation negotiations provided for in the WTO Agreement. However, both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the announcement, and now, to some extent, the Council of State, in a way, warns the opposite of the negotiation that you feel that you have bad cards on your hands and that you have no expectations that you will be able to get out of the negotiations with a good result. Now it is the case that the WTO Agreement is available for use and, as I said, allows for such negotiations. And not enough, in fact, it says that ‘generally’ Norway’s negotiating terms, as it is called, are not to be exacerbated by new agreements. My question to the Minister for Fisheries will therefore be as follows: Can it be a sensible negotiating strategy from Norway and the Government to go to such compensatory negotiations with such a defensive attitude as we experience here – that we are almost undershooting a bad result? Or is the explanation perhaps so simple that this fatalism is primarily intended for Norwegian opinion, in the Norwegian electorate, in order to characterise the agreement and the relationship we have with the EU today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1385	In no way does the government have a defensive position on how to take care of Norwegian fishing interests vis-à-vis the EU. We do that offensively all the time. In fact, we sometimes make it so offensive that those responsible in the Commission have to go into the carpet of the European Parliament in order to explain how this country has done what it has done as a foreign country. But when we say that this kind of compensation negotiation is a very big challenge for us, it's because of the experience you have with such negotiations. The best thing to do is probably to get compensated for the situation as it is. That is what we achieved when the other countries joined the EU. That's all right. But it is these countries that have roughly the highest increase in exports. It seems that the trend is going to heaven, to use that expression. But you don't get compensated or corrected for this growth. But we also have an extensive activity in relation to these Member States to draw their attention to what may happen to build up a pressure within these countries so that it is also in their interest to allow the fishing trade to continue. For example, today we have a trade with Poland of approx. $800 million. kr, and we have established a Polish-Norwegian Contact Forum, almost a Chamber of Commerce, to provide an understanding of mutual dependence between Norwegian industry and Polish industry. This is an example of things that can be done to prevent certain situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1394	I just want to advise the Minister of Fisheries that he is more committed to the serious environmental threats that are now in the North Sea, not only in terms of radioactive waste, but also in other ways, but perhaps especially in terms of the risk of a problematic release of radioactive pollution. The fact that Norwegian seafood has been given such a unique position in the European market and in other markets is also linked to the fact that Norwegian seafood is considered to be of high quality, safe and safe food. The recent significant increase in exports must also be seen, given the major problems facing European agriculture. If we are in any way at risk of putting this important quality stamp on Norwegian fishing exports over control by not being careful when there are environmental threats that are wondering, I think we may have to strive for a long time to remedy such a situation. In my opinion, it is not just the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Fisheries who should be involved in this. Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade should be involved in such an overall strategy and exert considerable pressure on the British authorities in this important matter for us. In the end – and I would like the Council of State to answer in the order I ask the questions: since there have been so many questions about what you can do to open up the European market more, I would like to hear about the status of reopening the large American market. There, Norway had significant exports, and there is a significant potential in the export of Norwegian seafood to America, provided that one can re-open this market.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1405	I can only repeat the assurances I have given in the past, that the entire government is very concerned about these questions and is taking advantage of all possible opportunities to address this with the English authorities. So take the next one, what's going on about the problems you have in agriculture, and the effects this has on fisheries. We've been very clear from the fishing industry that we're going to be on our own feet in the long term. That's because we have quality assurance, because we have clean water, because we're ISO certifying our businesses, because we're complying with the requirements of the EU and ESA, that we're increasing as a seafood exporter, and it's of course because we have these unique waters that enable us to increase our production. But the increased demand for seafood has been for a long time, and it started long, long before we got these meat problems in Europe. With regard to the issue of the US market, it is open to all fishery products. We have a dumping case on whole fresh salmon and fillet that makes this difficult. There's a pretty high margin of dumping on this. But exports to the United States are increasing. It is very exciting, and there are more and more Norwegian companies who see that this is an interesting and exciting market. But we have significant competition in this market from Chile, which is the world’s fastest growing salmon producer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1414	The next speaker is Sigurd Grytten. The President sees that the representative Grötten is wearing ribbons, and the President allows himself to note that it may seem that the European movement is now introducing a new image through the attraction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1419	I thank the President for his comment. I can assure you that there is no new strategy from the European Movement, but only a desire to halt this debate. The government’s announcement of Norway and Europe at the turn of the century provides a good description of Norway’s main political challenges in our relationship with Europe. These are issues we need to find answers to regardless of the form of association Norway chooses with the EU. This is particularly true of EU enlargement to the east, and of developments in EU defence and security policy. Europe is a continent with many different cultures and languages, and it is therefore the diversity that distinguishes Europe above all. But without tolerance, diversity creates conflicts, and it is also Europe's most important historical experience that diversity cannot exist without tolerance. For this reason, political and economic cooperation in Europe has become ever closer. This is at the heart of European cooperation, which is at the heart of Europe's historical heritage. We have a common historical heritage. When we saw the images from the concentration camps in the former Yugoslavia, the whole of Europe reacted from a common historical experience. We reacted with despair and disgust, and it mobilised a united Europe for peace in the Balkans. Diversity and tolerance are Europe's potential, but also our main challenge. The issues I started with show this with clarity. Eastern enlargement is positive mainly because it shows that diversity and tolerance are gaining ground in Europe. What many said was a utopia, a pan-European EU, is about to become a reality. We see that the rich Europe no longer shuts the poor Europe out, but invites us to cooperate. 12 countries are now negotiating EU membership, and Turkey is also candidate countries. Just as European cooperation contributed to increased living standards and stable democracies in southern Europe, so the inclusion of Eastern European countries will create a more stable Europe, a Europe with smaller differences between east and west. This is a positive development that Norway needs to contribute to, but eastward enlargement poses a number of challenges for Norway. Firstly, the increase in the number of Member States will further change the balance between EU and EFTA countries. It is therefore even more difficult for Norway to have specific arrangements such as foreign countries. Nor can Norway expect special treatment when the candidate countries are much worse off financially than we are. In the field of defence and security policy, we see that EU countries are increasingly involved in closer cooperation through the ESDP. The Government and the majority of the Committee are in favour of this development, as it contributes to European security and stability. The debate of 9 June last year on the Foreign Minister’s statement on Norway’s relationship with the ESDP showed that there was broad consensus on providing Norwegian support for a strengthened European capacity for crisis management, on the need to develop the ESDP in close cooperation between the EU and NATO, and on seeking close Norwegian links with the new EU cooperation. This is in isolation important. However, it should not be overshadowed that there are clear policy challenges associated with such participation. The most important thing is that there are clear limits to Norway’s ability to influence EU cooperation in this area. In my opinion, control of national forces in war is crucial to the sovereignty of a country. Norway has been guaranteed participation and influence until a decision to intervene in a conflict has been taken, but not after that time. Then it is the Council of Ministers that takes over the command of Norwegian forces. I believe this is such a serious issue of sovereignty that it should be assessed whether it is contrary to the Basic Law § 93.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22.ana.ud374e1438	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is late. The meeting is now being cancelled, and the examination of case No. 1 will continue at the evening meeting. 18th@item: inlistbox The first speaker at the evening meeting is Minister of Foreign Affairs Thorbjørn Jagland.
