ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e39	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to the exchange of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note. The first speaker is Asmund Kristoffersen, who is given the floor on behalf of the case-speaker, Gunhild Øyang.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e52	This bill contains changes to the law on transplantation, hospital autopsy and the release of equals etc. But the proposition goes beyond the name of the 1973 Act. It addresses the withdrawal of renewable tissues from persons who cannot give their own consent, the transfer of biological material from animals to humans, the use of cells and tissues from provocatively aborted foetuses, the autopsy of persons who die outside hospital and the commercial exploitation of organs and parts of organs. In addition, the Social Committee has also focused on the ethics of hospital necrosis and has sought to control the export of human biological material and information resulting from the analysis of such material. All these issues have in common that they make ethical choices for us, and what we decide is crucial for the development of medicine, for quality assurance and safer documentation of medical work. The whole committee considers it important, although it is difficult, to focus on how autopsy is performed and how it is experienced by relatives. We therefore also propose in the legal text to focus on the ethical aspects and on respectful post-mortem management. The regulations will be improved, and we are pleased that the State Health Authority will set up a sample to assess practices and changing needs regarding information and handling of autopsy material. It is important that we do not burden relatives or patients with actively making autopsy decisions in a particular critical situation. The majority therefore adhere to the long-term, incorporated principle of presumed consent. The Committee has also underlined the importance of organ donation, and we look forward to the government budget for 2002, where proposals for responsible coordinators have been announced in the emergency departments. Organ transplants will remain valid for a long time, although treatment using cells and tissues can complete and possibly replace organ transplants in the future. However, the fact that our bodies do not accept foreign bodies is as challenging in organ transplantation as in the use of cells and tissues. The Committee shall have, inter alia: in order to take into account the possibilities of compatible tissues in small families and recent family constellations, the desire to extend the receiving circuit of transplanted tissues to close family members where there is a close relationship between donor and recipient. The law goes beyond the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine. The Committee has agreed that we will not now allow the transfer of living biological material from animals to humans. Waiting and seeing in open areas must be possible. We need time to get a code even if we want to try it that way. International agreement in these areas is important and the majority would like to see a temporary ban in line with the Council of Europe's recommendation until 1 January 2003. The use of cells and tissues from provocatively aborted foetuses will be relevant in gene therapy in the future. The use of embryonic stem cells provides therapeutic possibilities that adult stem cells do not appear to be available. The use of stem cells is of major importance in the pharmaceutical industry. We want transparency about the use of foetal tissues in treatment and research and therefore want this to require approval by the ministry. In the field of ethics, decisions other than those involved and committed should be taken. We do not believe that foetal tissue can be used here to influence women's decision on abortion, but we still want consent to the use of tissues to be obtained after this serious decision has been made. No one in the Storting wants to open up a child to have an aborted foetus as its source, and everyone prohibits the transplantation of ovaries from aborted foetuses. With regard to the commercial exploitation of organs or parts of organs, it is particularly important to come to international commitments that the poorest should not be used for the repair of the richest people in the world. The economic gain for donors is therefore put an end to it and the commercial use of cells and tissues from aborted foetuses shall be prohibited. Blood products are being traded today, and we must allow the export of human biological material and information obtained by analysing this in the treatment of patients abroad. But otherwise, we want to manage the use of collections in biobanks and have therefore seen the need for regulatory regulation here. Developments are taking place quickly, and since we in Norway can neither control capital injections into research nor have the largest medical environments, our ability to control is that we are constantly updating our legislation in this area and working for international solutions. Most important treatments have probably been found in the last 50 years, but the development we are now facing can make the next 50 years more important in terms of what we learn about the human body, and what we can treat and prevent. Although all these issues are difficult and delicate for those affected by them, I would like to stress that one principle is important. We must have full openness around the fundamental choices to be made. It may not be up to doctors, researchers, participations in the pharmaceutical industry or some patient groups to decide on medical developments here on a country-by-country basis alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e78	Odelsting is currently dealing with a proposition dealing with several important areas of medical ethics. If any of the issues are widely agreed, but the proposition also contains proposals that involve fundamental breach of medical ethical tradition. I'll take the uncontroversial first. A unanimous committee is in favour of the proposal to amend the transplant law in respect of withdrawals of renewable tissues from persons under 12 years of age or who are unable to give their own consent. Like the rest of the committee, the Christian People's Party believes that it is appropriate, in exceptional cases, to open access to transplantation to family members other than siblings, children or parents, provided that this family member has a particularly close relationship with the donor. Autopsy problems have come to light after the media have mentioned very critical issues. On this basis, a majority of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have proposed to legislate that an autopsy be carried out ethically with respect for the deceased. Of course, the Christian People's Party finds this necessary and unnecessary to legislate, as this is covered by general provisions of the Health Care Act. Moreover, according to the proposal, the legal paragraph in question will be subject to further consideration, and we do not want to change this paragraph now. With regard to the commercial exploitation of organs and parts of bodies, an overall committee is behind the legislative proposal to prevent this. The transfer of living biological material from animals to humans, so-called xenotransplantation, poses many challenges, both practical and ethical. The background for such transplants is the lack of human organs for transplantation. Risk assessments have led, for example, to the recommendation of a moratorium, a temporary ban, for clinical trials on xenotransplants by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The Ministry's proposal for a temporary ban is consistent with this, and is supported by the Christian People's Party. If experience shows that it is too early to take a final position by 1 January 2003, it might be appropriate to propose a reasoned extension of the temporary ban, and I am, for my part, not sure whether the problems of xenotransplantation will be sufficiently resolved in less than two years. We have no guarantee that the question of animal-to-human infection through the transplanted organ has been resolved in such a short time. In addition, we now need a fundamental ethical debate on xenotransplantation. For many, the issue of crossing species boundaries will be important. But even those who don't have fundamental counter-conceptions against xenotransplantation will have to ask themselves important questions, among other things. in a priority context. If animal organ transplantation is permitted, which patients should then be selected for human organs, and who should receive organs from animals? What basis should we have for prioritising patients in this way? This is an important debate that we must have before any legislative change. When the Government now proposes to allow the use of cells and tissues from provocative abortions and abortions, this is a frightening breach of current medical ethics. Yes, it is an explicit violation of Christian and humanistic tradition that has been clearly expressed, not least by Immanuel Kant, who pointed to human life as a goal in itself, and not as a means. I want to add: not even as a medicine. The Government's liberalist proposals are wholeheartedly supported by the Progress Party and by the Committee's comments, more lukewarmly from the Right and the SV. The ethical tradition on which this is based is also old and well-known, and it's called: the purpose is to sanctify the medium. The government is based on NOU 1994:24, ‘Use of cells and tissues from aborted foetuses’, where a working group recommends the use of tissues from aborted foetuses for medical use with certain limitations. However, this NOU is horrificly weak in terms of ethical assessments. For example, about the human dignity of the fetus, it is said that “Some people will emphasize that human life begins at conception.” Yes, think about it! Some would stress this, and also stress that this is an indisputable biological fact, but it does not go into the sample. Their argument for their view of the human dignity of the foetus, which is the basis for allowing the use of cells and tissues from aborted foetuses, sounds in all its helplessness as follows: ‘Some consider foetal development to be an argument for gradually assigning the foetus to human status and human dignity. They differ emotionally from a newly started foetus and one that has advanced in foetal development and believe that this gives the right to grade human dignity and, for example, to allow research on fertilised eggs.’ This is truly impressive by a sample that includes three professors, a first amanunensis and a bishop. So they're based on their conclusion on emotional differences, which I don't think is appropriate as a basis for legal regulation. For example, I have a different emotional relationship with my wife and with, for example, my wife. the rapporteur-in-chief. In contrast to the working group, however, I do not believe that such an emotional relationship gives me the basis for legislation that gives the rapporteur less human dignity than my wife. As the example shows, the ethical basis of the proposition is rather wobbly, as something that is usually just based on emotion. The Christian People's Party also fears that the use of cells and tissues from aborted foetuses could in the long run lead to increased abortions, because such use could lead to an easier choice of abortions. The Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that this will not affect the general relationship of women with provocative abortions, because written consent is obtained after the decision on termination of pregnancy has been taken. This seems to me to be something naive. Of course, if cells and tissues from aborted foetuses are to be used for medical purposes, this will become widely known, and the fact that aborted foetuses could be used for purposes considered positive must necessarily influence attitudes and facilitate the selection of abortions. The idea will be that abortion is not so dangerous anyway, because the fetus can be used for medical purposes – which are purposes that most of us would consider positive. On purely ethical grounds, the Christian People's Party will go against the bill on the use of cells and tissues from aborted foetuses. But there are not just ethical objections to this proposal. The Ministry admits that the international optimism regarding treatment with cells and tissues from provocative abortions is now less than five to ten years ago and that few scientific articles have been published in recent years. And Professor Dag E. Helland of the Institute of Molecular Biology at the University of Bergen says to Bergen's Official Journal that research on fertilized eggs has shrunk – it is based on a dream world rather than scientific criteria. I think that this technique is about to be out of date, and will be replaced by the use of embryonic stem cells and of adult individuals. This impression was given to the Social Committee during its visit to the research communities in the United States, and this impression was confirmed by senior adviser Ole Johan Borge in Biotechnology at a meeting of the Joint Council of representatives of big business and science on 26 April. I don't know what reasons the bioliberalists in the majority constellation have for absolutely wanting to give legal support to a technique that looks on the way out. Christian People's Party for its part will recommend that Norwegian research communities bet on the use of stem cells from adult individuals that can give consent. This does not eliminate all ethical issues, but is significantly less worrying than the use of cells and tissues from provocatively decomposed foetuses, or the use of embryonic cells where a life is started in the laboratory to later manipulate this, research it and throw it. Against this background, the Christian People's Party will vote against a new Chapter II(A) of the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e115	Autopsy, organ transplantation and organ donation are important. It's important to create a better health care system, higher quality to ensure that the diagnostics we're making are actually correct. And it could also be life-saving, both for those who get an organ that they need, and also for the future, because our knowledge of what has happened will be better. Therefore, there is an overall committee that supports the proposals in the proposal, and which actually goes a little further on some points in order to give not least minor children the opportunity to have their parents or one of their parents with them longer than with the government proposal, if a body can contribute to this, even if it is not life-saving. But what is now really lifesaving in the perspective of eternity? There is an exception to the opinion on autopsy, and that is the question of whether we should continue today's practice with so-called "presumed consent" or whether we should consider the possibility of obtaining active consent to autopsy in advance. There have been routines in the media in recent months, or lack of routines, which make many people feel hurt, many feel neglected, and deceased and also relatives are met in a nonchalant way that we cannot accept to continue. Nevertheless, the Right has a great understanding of and fully agrees with the majority's view that it is not very considerate if you come into the hospital and get presented that there is a life-threatening situation, and the patient or the relatives are asked the question: If this goes wrong, dear, will you contribute to medical science by letting you obscurate afterwards? It is clear that in such a situation it is not particularly prudent to bring forward such thoughts. That is why we have made a proposal together with the Centre Party and the SV, asking the Government to consider submitting the proposal for active consent by post-mortem inspection and also assessing how to obtain such consent in a more appropriate way than in a crisis or life-threatening situation, and we point in particular to the fixed medical system as an opportunity to do so. I think it would be easier for most people to be asked such a question at a younger age and when you don't have a serious suffering than in a crisis situation, as the situation would be if we were to cancel the assumption of presumed consent. So if you haven't specifically said that you don't want to be obsessed, or that you don't want the dead to be obsessed, you can do it. Although this proposal is unlikely to be adopted here today, I would nevertheless ask the Minister of Health to ask their people to consider it. We live in a world where we are increasingly getting informed patients, and we must then rely on volunteering and on knowledge and information for the individual. If you can find a way to make it more gentle for the individual in this area as well, I think it will help that more people will say yes to being obsessive and also give their organs after their own death. That is why I am referring to the motion for a resolution, proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Center Party and SV. So some words about cells and tissues from provoked abortion. I must say that I may not react with such a great surprise, but I nevertheless react relatively strongly to the presentation of women's motivation and women's attitude towards abortion that the representative Are Næss of the Christian People's Party just said. That's nothing new in itself, because it was the same horror propaganda we got served in the 1970s, when it was about introducing the law of self-determined abortion. Then we learned that if women had self-determined abortions, the number of abortions would rise dramatically, because that would be so much easier. And then we hear that if women get it and that right, they'll just use it without thinking about the ethical aspect. Women don't think that way. It shows evolution. The number of abortions has not increased. Even in those cases where women who want to have children are told late in their pregnancy that they may have a seriously injured foetus, most people actually choose to say no to the possibility of discovering whether it is actually like this or not, through the amniotic fluid test. It shows that women take responsibility. Women have at least as good ethical standards as the representative Noess, and at least it is not possible to cut all women above a comb by saying that this will happen if it becomes so much easier to take abortion, that it will be less serious if you know that it can be used for something useful afterwards. This is an attitude and a view of women from whom I take a great distance. This doesn't mean that this theme, this area, that using cells and tissues from provocatively abortible foetuses, is not difficult. It is, and it also recognises the majority. When we first dealt with this in a big message a few years ago, we said yes on very strict and clear terms. The ministry has followed up the terms of the majority from then to the point and the point, as far as I can see. That is why the Right agrees that it should be possible to use cells and tissues from provocatively abortible foetuses in these particular situations. But at the same time, if there are other equivalent alternatives, we're not going to use this. I think we can all join the representative Nose" hope that other ways of getting cells and tissues to help people will be possible as soon as possible, so that you do not use this opportunity. There's no disagreement about that. But if that's the only option we have, the Right doesn't mean that you should say no to it and forbid it, because we don't think that will affect women's view of abortion. Abortion is serious regardless of the circumstances in which it is carried out. We also add that by establishing a foetal tissue bank no market is created, as the critics have also mentioned as an opportunity, by giving such cells or tissues and recipients will not be known to each other, and that this foetal tissue bank will be treated as a health register. With these words I take up the Right suggestion, and recommend otherwise the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e132	The representative Annelise Höegh has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e135	On most points, the present position has a solid political majority behind it. Not unexpectedly in a matter like this, which also includes research on fertilized eggs and the use of abortions, the Christian People's Party and the Centre appear with arguments against research on eggs and the use of abortions for research and treatment. We must all respect that. The Progress Party is pleased that it is possible to get a unanimous committee to show a slightly greater degree of liberalism as to who can receive donor tissues from people under 18 years of age in specific cases. It is also of particular importance that a unanimous committee state in its note that transplantation into close relatives, for example. parents, falls under point 3 of the third paragraph of Section 1 of the Act, even if such transplantation of tissues does not result in full healing. It is particularly important in this context to stress that it will be of great importance to children’s growth that a sick father or mother can be kept alive for the longest time possible, even if full recovery cannot be expected. As regards transplantation of organs from animals, which have been intensively researched over several years, the Progress Party will support in this respect the legislative proposal to prohibit such transplantation until 2003. However, on behalf of the Progression Party, I have made reservations in the vote about possibly returning to the issue of animal organ transplantation before 2003 if such organ transplantation from animals abroad was to be opened before that date. In Norway — as in other countries — we know that we have a great lack of organs for lifesaving transplantation. With regard to the use of foetal tissues from aborted foetuses for research and treatment, the recommendation shows that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have the clearest positive views on the use of aborted foetal tissues for research, treatment and establishment of foetal tissue banks. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party are as provided for strong opponents of the use of tissues from aborted foetuses. In my opinion, it is not particularly alarming that there is a political disagreement about the ethical aspects of the use of aborted foetal tissues for research and possibly treatment, but I hope we can respect each other’s positions in this way – both now and in the future, especially in the context of the announced revision of the biotechnology law that comes with the first. Unlike the Christian People's Party and the representative Are Næss, I don't think there will be any increase in abortion rates even if we allow the use of foetal tissue for research and possibly treatment. When I don't believe this, it's because I obviously have a completely different view of the woman than the representative of Are Næss. It has been commented by the representative Annelise Höegh. I think it is really bad to hear this kind of argument in an ethically very difficult case like the one we are dealing with here. The Progress Party has its own amendment to Section 8(c) that goes on the authorisation procedures for the use of cells and tissues from aborted foetuses. In the proposition it is assumed that the ministry should be the approval authority in this way, while in the Progress Party we believe that those who have the best prerequisites for taking a stand on this type of matter are the research-ethical regional committees, and we propose amending the legal text in Section 8(c). Autopsy remains the most important method of determining why humans die. All studies, both in Norway and internationally, show that the death certificate of the treating physician is of limited value. The difference between the estimated cause of death and the actual cause of death as demonstrated by autopsy varies from 20 to 60 pst. This applies not only to Norway but to all western countries. Autopsy ensures quality through feedback on the course of disease and the results of treatment and whether or not it has been of benefit to the patient. Autopsy is also important for monitoring the health of the population. Yes, autopsy is, in fact, a fundamental pillar of all health policies. Respect for life also means taking death seriously, and in this context it is also important to determine the real cause of death. In Norway, we have the situation that the autopsy rate has dropped from 20 pst. from 1986 to 12 p.m. in 1997. The Norwegian pathologist association sees this as alarming. I am particularly pleased that the majority in the present position has not opted for informed consent to have an autopsy carried out, but that the system of presumed consent is still maintained, which is currently being used. In my opinion, informed written consent will further reduce the autopsy frequency, as it is extremely difficult for both doctors and nurses in an acute care situation to request such consent for autopsy and go into detail on how the autopsy is actually carried out. Having said that, I would particularly like to stress the importance of all hospitals in their general information brochures making it clear that autopsy can be performed, provided that there are no counter-representations either from the patient or the patient's family in advance. There have been recent findings regarding the execution of autopsy in some hospitals that are critical and should also be charged with this pulpit. It is important, as the Committee points out, that one must show respect also for the dead human being and its value in the execution of autopsy. This shall not apply at least to the withdrawal and re-entry of organs used to make the correct diagnosis. I am quite incomprehensible about what is stated in the comments from the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, where one actually believes that the question of any future autopsy should be addressed with the decision at the front of the event. How has it been thought that this can be implemented in practice? It is hardly natural for questions about future autopsy in case of death to be the primary starting point for the first, second or third consultation of a permanent practitioner. I think this is a very bad proposal. It is positive to record that the Norwegian Pathological Association wants public light directed at the autopsy services and that it will itself contribute to the execution of autopsy work in a dignified and considerate manner that does not interfere with or interfere with the care of the survivors. I hope that the new guidelines for the execution of autopsy expected from the State Health Authority will enable us to obtain in the future better and more considerate and worthy procedures for the autopsy work itself in our hospitals. It is also desirable, from my point of view, that we can significantly increase the autopsy frequency in relation to what has been said and justified in the past. In particular, I find this necessary in order to follow up the cause of death among the elderly sick in our public institutions. It is clear that there is a major discrepancy between the death diagnosis cited and the real cause of death. We have documented this in sporadic tests carried out at some public hospitals. Finally, I refer to the proposal of the Progress Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e163	Representative John I. Alvheim has drawn up proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e166	Stem cell research is asking for new prospects. The rums allow for the treatment of diseases that today cause great pain, premature death and suffering both for the patient and family. The stem cell is so important because it's a cell that can differentiate itself into any tissue or organ in the human body, when one ignores the morca tissue. Researchers believe that stem cells can be used to repair damaged organs and restore tissues in conditions such as: stroke, heart disease, burns, paralysis due to spinal injury, diabetes and Alzheimer’s disease. Today there is a great lack of organs for transplantation. By growing stem cells, one may in the future produce organs that can be used in transplants. Because these cells won't be destitute like a foreign organism, this will be able to revolutionize transplant medicine and reduce the need for organs from dead humans and animals. Stem cells can also be used to test new medications and save patients to try out medicines with a high risk of side effects. The centre part emphasises that many researchers are audacious in assessing the research process so far. Stem cell research is at a very early stage. We are not allowed to predict the results. We also know that both research and future treatment methods can be costly. Nor can we be sure that the use of stem cells will be without complications for us human beings. A short time ago, optimism was great with regard to transplants of organs between animals and humans, for example. pig heart or kidney. The risk of spreading unknown viruses from animals to humans has reduced the monthly optimism. I am pleased that the whole committee has put down a temporary ban on this. Nor do we know whether the use of stem cells can cause the corresponding virus transmission problems or have other undesirable effects when stem cells are produced and used in the human body. So we're wise to reduce expectations and expect concrete results before we're sure that stem cell development can actually keep that research a promise. Stem cell research itself is not controversial. On the other hand, it's the methods and the material for producing stem cells. The centre party cannot accept the use of aborted foetuses and fertilize cells as a source of stem cells, or as a whole as a source of anything other than for its actual purpose, namely to be a facility for a new life. Together with a minority in the Biotechnology topic, the Center Party will focus Norway’s research effort on adult stem cells of the consenting individual. We're basing on an understanding of human dignity that means that values relate to the existence of human life, even in an early phase. We don't want to use a life as a means -- a life that could eventually become an independent, thinking person. After the closing of Scottish researchers to clone a sheep, the road lies open to clone human beings. The sheep Dolly was not produced by melting a sperm and an egg cell, but by bridging a skin cell from an adult sheep into a sheep's egg cell without a nucleus. The technology is called a core transfer. An accurate copy (or clone) of the adult sheep. A scarcely multiple in Biotechnology is responsible for allowing therapeutic cloning. It's not a matter that we're going directly to decide on here today, but I'm going to warn against opening up to the production of human germs out of research. There is reason to ask questions about the value added to an embryo, a germ to life, if an allowed therapeutic cloning and new production of fertilised eggs. The centre party wants to open up for the new possibilities that biotechnology gives us. At the same time, we think it is important to be awake in relation to the limits that have to be set. It turns out that, even with the background of what I've just said, we're going to go into a new chapter IIA. We know that § 7, which applies to autopsy, will be recorded later. So we don't want to change it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e196	The areas in which the Committee has agreed have been affected by the rapporteur, so I find neither time nor opportunity to address them now, but will concentrate on the three areas that may be considered to be the most controversial, and where there is also some disagreement between the members of the Committee. In the case of xenotransplantation, i.e. the transplantation of biological material from animals to humans, the Committee stands together, but the Progress Party has a special comment that, if there is a possibility and there is new technology available, one will be able to do so before 2003. Although research is rapidly taking place in a number of areas, it can be seen, as many people have pointed out, that this is an area where expectations have been higher than they have been able to meet. There is no reason to believe that, in such a short time frame, you will have a new technology or new aspects related to xenotransplantation to create such an opening. There are two important aspects of animal-to-human transplantation that are currently being updated. One is the aspect of infectious disease protection. We have seen infection with Creutzfeldt-Jakob's disease both in humans and in animals, and you can see new routes of infection you were not aware of before. The same is true of foot-and-mouth disease. This means that special care should be taken here, even if new research results related to transplant possibilities are obtained. Another aspect is the ethical aspect of the use of genetic technologies in which organs from animals are modified in order to be able to use them in humans. It is clear that it will also trigger emotional reactions in individuals where transplantation may be relevant, which require an in-depth and prior ethical debate. Then more people have been involved in the use of foetal tissues from aborted foetuses. That's a difficult question for SV. It's hard to know what's going to be the right position, and you can do balances that, for SV, give openings for both positions. It creates a distinction in the case of spontaneous abortions and the use of foetal tissues from aborted foetuses, which must be considered as logically justified and which are so strong that restrictions should be imposed. One aspect could be exactly what Are Næss pulled out, but neither does SV believe, when consent is to be obtained only after the abortion has been completed, that it will affect the abortion frequency. It is not unproblematic to imagine that using abortions for other purposes gives a kind of connection between the two aspects. Therefore, the weighing has been difficult for SV. We've also tried to make visible through the comments we've been making, that it's a difficult balance. But one thing that has been crucial for us is what the majority so strongly emphasises, namely that ‘The use of foetal tissues for treatment shall be permitted only in cases where there is a serious disease or injury and other forms of treatment have limited efficacy. The use of foetal tissues for medical research, diagnostics and the manufacture of vaccines shall only be permitted if there are no other equivalent alternatives». We agree with those who have said — and are also involved in a comment that it is said — that emphasis should be placed on research into the use of stem cells from adults rather than on the use of cells from aborted foetuses. As far as autopsy is concerned, we have seen a number of comments in the VG while the committee was dealing with the matter, where there was a discussion as to whether there should be consent or not. It is clear that it is fully possible to deal with this issue through prior consent, and the proposal implies that the Government should take a closer look at different approaches. When it comes to regulars, I totally disagree with Alvheim. It would be a very appropriate approach, because the issue can be raised in different contexts, and one can even standardise a procedure related to it, which will clarify whether or not prior approval has been granted. The decision maker will know the person, so it will be possible to do so in a context that seems reasonable. But precisely where you do not have that kind of prior approval, you have to avoid the situations that have been described in several VG articles, namely that people experience the shock of knowing that they have been obdu-certised – you have not known anything in advance, and you have even had nothing to do with it. Where there is no legal autopsy, the SV considers that there should be consent in one of the two forms I have mentioned here. I refer to the proposal that SV has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e229	The representative of Ballo has drawn up proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e233	The current state of play of Odelstinget concerns new and clarifying legal provisions in areas where it is not only important to have clear legislation, but where it is also demanding to design a law that is in a good way counterproductive and where there are many difficult ethical issues. It is therefore not surprising that work on several of the proposals has taken time and that work is still ongoing in some areas with a view to further developing new legislation. And there's also a reason to think about it. as a result of the development of medical technology, there will be a continuing need for the development of new laws and regulations. On this basis, I find it very satisfactory that the proposed position has essentially given broad support to the proposals made by the Government. In addition, in its position, the Social Committee has proposed two additional legal provisions that I believe are very positive. With regard to access to the procurement of renewable tissue for transplantation, there has been a long need to clarify the legislation. This has a clear connection with the design of the existing law at a time when today’s transplant technology, for example: in the case of bone marrow transplantation from minors, was not foreseen. The clarification proposed has as its starting point the donor himself to give written consent to the intervention. In specific cases, derogations from this general rule should be possible. Therefore, the possibility of withdrawing renewable tissues from persons who cannot give their own consent has been proposed under certain conditions. The Committee has mainly adhered to the conditions for the extraction of renewable tissues but does not consider it reasonable to restrict the receiver circuit to siblings, children or parents. The Committee emphasises that other close family members may also be relevant recipients of renewable tissues in specific cases and would like to open up to an extended range of receivers. Since interference with persons under the age of 18 and with persons who are unable to give their consent shall be subject to approval by the county doctor, I would say that the protection of persons who cannot give their consent is adequately ensured. As regards the transfer of living biological material from animals to humans, the Government wishes to follow a precautionary principle. It is important that future possibilities for the transfer of such biological material from animals to humans are the subject of political and ethical debate before any clinical trials are initiated in Norway. It is also necessary to follow any international agreements and guidelines, including future recommendations from the Council of Europe. The proposal therefore provides for a temporary ban on the transfer of live biological material from animals to humans. Based on current knowledge, it is not appropriate to initiate clinical trials on the transfer of this type of biological material, either in Norway or in other countries. There is a need for further research in this area before, where appropriate, the launch of clinical trials should be allowed. In December 1999, a sample was appointed to assess the transfer of live biological material from animals to humans. This sample shall deliver its nomination on 20 June this year. The temporary ban applies until 1 January 2003. By that time, the Government expects to be able to come back to the Stortinget with detailed legislative proposals. It is not unexpected that there are proposals for new provisions on the use of cells and tissues from provocatively aborted foetuses that have created the most debate and that also reflect differences of opinion in the setting. This is an area currently not directly regulated by Norwegian legislation. The government has proposed opening the use of cells and tissues from provocatively abortible foetuses for medical purposes. However, this should only be possible under specified conditions and under public governance. The use of foetal tissues from provocatively aborted foetuses raises ethical issues. However, the Government considers that it is necessary to highlight the possibilities that such use might provide for the provision of treatment to seriously ill people and that it is ethically acceptable to allow such use. Following the government's proposal, foetal tissues shall be used in medical research, including the development of vaccines, for the manufacture of vaccines, for diagnostics and for treatment. The use of foetal tissues for transplantation shall be limited to the treatment of serious diseases or injuries where other alternative treatments have been shown to have limited efficacy. Foetal tissues shall only be capable of being used for research purposes if no other equivalent methods are available. The same shall apply if a person wishes to use foetal tissues for the manufacture of vaccines or to carry out viral diagnostics. Before using foetal tissues for research or use for medical treatment, the research project in question or the new form of treatment requested must be approved by the Ministry of Social and Health. The proposal assumes that the woman from whom the foetus was derived has given written consent to the use of the tissue. Consent must be given only after the woman has taken her decision to have the abortion carried out. All collection, storage and distribution of foetal tissues shall be via a foetal tissue bank. In order to prevent the link between the woman and the users of the tissue, it is also proposed that she should not be given information about who should receive the foetal tissue and that the recipient should not, on the other hand, become aware of the identity of the woman. The use of foetal tissues is unacceptable for some on ethical grounds. I believe that any personal position must respect each other's ethical positions on such a question. It is therefore also proposed to introduce access for health professionals to reserve themselves for reasons of conscience against participating in research projects where foetal tissues are used and against participating in foetal tissue transplantation. For some it may be unacceptable to receive foetal tissues from provocative abortions. The patient’s right to information that the tissue is derived from provocative abortions is therefore proposed by law. As explained in Ot.prp. No 77, the Government will return to the question of whether it should be opened to use stem cells isolated from fertilised eggs for research and treatment in the context of the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act — Act on Medical Use of Biotechnology. The results of the evaluation will be presented to the Stortinget during the spring session next year. Finally, the Government proposes to introduce a ban on the commercial exploitation of organs, parts of organs and cells and tissues as such, both from humans and from abortions. Commercial exploitation of organs and other biological material has been discussed in many countries and international bodies. The Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine provides in Article 21 that the human body and its parts as such shall not give rise to financial gain. Most Western European countries carrying out organ transplantation have introduced a ban on the commercial exploitation of organs and parts of organs in line with the Council of Europe recommendations. Such a prohibition means a marking of respect for the dignity and identity of the individual. Commercial exploitation means, in this context, activities which give rise to economic gain. However, the prohibition is not intended to affect biological material that has undergone a manufacturing process. The prohibition concerns the provision or receipt of a payment or other economic advantage for the extraction or transfer of the biological material in question as such. The recovery of actual costs will, of course, not be covered by the prohibition. The Committee has proposed a provision to manage the use of biological material and information extracted from this type of material. Therefore, in addition to Section 10a of the proposal prohibiting the commercial exploitation of human biological material as such, the Committee suggests that it should not be possible to export such material or information obtained from the analysis of such material without the approval of the department. I fully agree with the Committee that it is important to manage the export of human biological material and information derived from such material and find the Committee's proposals very satisfactory. The Committee has also proposed the inclusion of an addition to Section 7 of the Act on Autopsy. The intention is to focus more clearly on the ethical aspects of autopsy and respect for the deceased. This is an important clarification. In addition, I have, as you know, announced in the past that a sample set up by the State Health Inspectorate will look into autopsy practices and, if necessary, propose a change of regulations. I would once again like to express my satisfaction at the fact that, in its position, the Social Committee is so closely associated with the proposals that the Government has made, and on some points has proposed important additions to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e284	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e287	With regard to the use of cells and tissues from aborted foetuses, there are two possibilities: either success or failure will occur. If such anti-principal techniques are successful, there will be a need for large amounts of abortion tissues, more than is currently available, because each treatment — at least so far — requires cells from many foetuses, and because the patient groups involved, for example the Parkinsonism group, are large. How does the Minister of Health deal with this issue? The second possibility, and at my discretion the most likely so far, is that the use of cells and tissues from aborted fetuses will prove to be a failure, as now. I assume that the Minister of Health is aware that a major US investigation into the treatment of parkinsonism with cells from aborted foetuses has been a frightening failure. It is the first study carried out with a control group, and it has in no way responded to expectations. On the contrary, the researchers involved in the project are alarmed by the bad results. So there are two possibilities: either successful, and then with a demand for increased access to foetal tissue – how are we going to deal with that? – or failed, as now – and then why bet on this technique?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e296	I do not consider the proposals that have been put forward here to be primarily the expression of a particular research policy commitment, or that the legislative proposals are based on the foundations of what kind of research will produce what results, if any, will succeed in the future, or will prove to be a failure in the future. I believe the representative Are Næss also in his first post suggested that these were proposals that could be characterised by the thesis that the goal is devoted to the means. Now I rather believe that Are Næss’ own question points in that direction — in the direction that one might have a different ethical perception of these issues if one had believed that the research would be successful for a particular purpose, than if one had the speculation that this would not be successful. I think it'll be a somewhat amazing approach to an important ethical problem. My view is that the proposals and the legislative proposals that are being promoted here must be based on an opinion as to whether it is ethically sound to use cells and tissues from aborted foetuses as it is open to access, and it is regulated in the way it is, regardless of what one might think of both the scope and the results of medical research. Therefore, this bill that is not based on any thesis that the goal is devoted to the means.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e303	The working party focuses on presenting the Working Party and the Progress Party as main opponents. The Minister of Health usually does not, and for good reason. He was quickly embraced by the Progress Party when he filed an action on the state takeover of hospitals. Today, the representative John Alvheim has the power to stress that it is the Labour Party and the Progress Party that are most likely to open up to the type of research that is being treated – a research that is ethically disputed. I want to set the search light on the theme of xenotransplantation. The entire Committee stands together to reject both clinical trials and all forms of medical treatment involving live animal biological material. It is a temporary ban that lasts until 1 January 2003. Then the Progress Party has found it necessary to stress that they support the bill at the present time, but they will have the right to come back to this matter if it is opened before January 2003 for xenotransplant abroad. I want to challenge the Minister of Health on what future prospects he has in this area. Does he consider it relevant to a ban only until 2003, or does he himself have thoughts beyond 2003?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e312	First of all, I have a little bit of difficulty in seeing what this question has to do with the analysis of who had to perceive himself as political main opponents, or who embraces who in what matters. In general, I have expressed satisfaction at the fact that the proposals promoted by the Government have broad support in the Committee and in the Odelstingen during the debate today. As for the future thoughts I had to have about the possibilities of successful xenotransplantation, I want to limit myself to referring to what I said in my main post. There will now be a temporary ban until 2003, and I expect the Government to have the opportunity to come back to the Storting with proposals for legislation in this area in the future. What could result from that, whether it will be considered to be a need for a further extension of such a prohibition, or whether it opens up to that type of transplant, I again think it is unnecessary to speculate in now. It is of the questions that I think it is reasonable to consider once you have gained the knowledge of what both new knowledge and new research might have given in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e319	I just have to attach the attention to an element in the setting that for me is a cross of thought. It is the proposal that will obviously be endorsed, to open access to the use of foetal tissues in research and treatment. All parties agree that this in itself is very problematic. In other words, the mechanism of action, of carrying out research and treatment by means of foetal tissues, is itself extremely problematic. The reasoning used to open up that, however, is the promising future prospects, i.e. it can be thought once in the future to lead to such good results that it balances the concerns It is in itself an ethical reasoning that is even more problematic, according to my concepts, at least if you have some historical knowledge and know what kind of reasoning has been used to justify medical experiments in the course of time. But what to me is the true cross of thought, is that the promising prospects that are given so much emphasis here have become significantly less promising, and everyone who is informed about the evolution of research today believes that that optimism was totally unfounded. Then it becomes a crossroads that, right at this point in time, we want to review the Norwegian legislation in the interests of results that have probably been produced in a far too favourable light of the research communities that are interested in carrying out research in this area. I think it's a pretty unhappy timing in this picture, in addition to the principal problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e328	I agree that there is every reason to recall the tragic consequences when research in areas that are considered ethically problematic has not been subject to democratic control, governance and legislation to which it is common to add. I also believe that in the present case there has just been a control and management of this type of medical research and the use of cells and tissues from aborted foetuses that will ensure against that type of tragedy. The second is that I am of the opinion that the ethical issues that relate to this – and I have all the respect that here we can have different opinions, and we have to live with it and develop legislation that embraces in the best possible way what is the common ethical basis on which we evaluate such questions – can and will usually be somewhat different. But I don't share the view that this should be almost a business cycle phenomenon, talking about what is the right timing to develop and promote such legislation. I believe that either one has to decide whether this is ethically sound or not ethically sound, but a reasoning about finding a proper timing based on how to assess the future possibilities for research, I believe, is ethically wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e335	The Council of State just stated that it was important here to take a principle position as to whether something was ethical or not ethically sound. The Working Party and the Advance Party state in the recommendation that ‘when foetal tissue, umbilical cord and morcaca are treated as biological material, it would be reasonable to use this biological material as well’. I do not see this as any particularly profound, ethical justification for whether or not something is ethically sound. As I read this, it's almost an explanation of availability as an ethical principle – if you have it, it's also ethical to use it. If you have available foetal tissues, umbilical cords, and moraca, and it's defined as biological material, it's right, according to this, to use it without any limitation. I don't think the availability of biological material is a well-thought-out ethical principle: if you have something, you can use it for whatever you want. I think that is a bad ethical principle. It surprises me that the council here has nothing more basic than what he had in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e340	I am afraid I will no longer be in a discussion with the representative. I am afraid about the various ethical questions that have been addressed in the proposition and the setting that is now available. I must note that we may have a somewhat different view of these ethical problems. I have every respect for the view of the representative Mr Naess in this respect. I must have a hope that with a different view of ethics on these issues they too respect that we, who have promoted this proposal, who seem to have consent to Odelstinget, also have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e345	That it may be a dilemma and a difficult problem to address, related to the use of tissues from aborted foetuses, is made visible by the question from Inge Wohnung. Without me ironizing it, the Right is the co-rapporteur for the proposal that Inge Wohnung is right in many ways. Then I really share the opinion of the Council of State that you should respect the fact that you can land in different positions, and not assign other positions and motives that they do not necessarily have. I want to address another issue to the Council of State, and it is related to autopsy. As you know, there have been several queries in the VG about this, and I see that the Council of State has also been interviewing. I have a look-up here from March 29, 2001, where the Council of State is asked about autopsy and possibly pre-consent. I understand from the interview that the Council of State is opposed – he has also indicated otherwise – to applying for a system of consent, either through pre-consent or through relatives when they are dead. But has the Council of State tried to imagine a system that could actually help to get more people's commitments in view of autopsy? For example, it has been mentioned that in conversations at a time when you may be in good health, where you have a type of standardised forms attached to it and perhaps have a fixed doctor or others to talk about it with, you might get a completely different understanding of the benefits of autopsy and thus get a greater degree of openness in society, so that you avoid the kind of situations that include. VG has described, how relatives really feel very unsafe or opposed to it, and in retrospect it feels very painful and emotionally difficult that an autopsy has taken place without their consent.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e355	Firstly, the cases referred to earlier in the media about postmortems are highly critical and very regrettable and give good reason for emphasis on the Committee's proposal for an addition to the law, the importance of this being an activity which is carried out in all respects in ethically sound and reassuring ways, and it is important that we take the necessary measures to ensure that this happens. I also agree that there is a need for more transparency about the issues associated with autopsy and the needs of the autopsy community. In this respect, I also have no contradictions with the fact that it is more a matter of relation, for example. between patients and a regular physician. But I have probably some concerns that this might be the subject of clarifications almost at an early stage in people's lives, with which one would then possibly be confronted in later situations in life. In this respect, the issues that need to be assessed far more widely than has now been the case – at least what has been done in the public debate that was in ours. However, I believe that the work of the sample that the Health Authority has reduced could also include the type of questions raised here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e362	As a result, the string shift has ended. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e367	I asked for the word almost to clarify a misunderstanding. Whether it's obvious or not, you can probably have shared opinions about, but a misunderstanding is at least that. Of course, I fully agree that this is about difficult balances, and of course I fully respect the fact that different conclusions can be drawn from these balances. What I tried to point out was that this is a classic dilemma in ethical discussions. Everyone agrees that the instrument itself is problematic and not desirable. I have understood that there is no doubt – everyone agrees on that. Against this comes the for-argument, and the only for-arguments I have been able to record are the possible results in the future. And what I tried to point out with the perhaps somewhat unfortunate word "timing" was that it seems to me as a cross of thought that one can promote such a proposal to open up something that everyone agrees on is suspicious, in a situation where all the professionals agree that when it comes to results, you probably promise far more than what you are able to hold. The optimism among the researchers is far less now than it was a year ago, and that is why I said that I find it strange that you will make such a change of laws at this point in time. It would have been easier to understand the weight of the argument a year ago. There is also reason to stress that there are more and more researchers working in this field who are critical of the colleagues who really want to move forward on this path, because it has already been seen that at an too early stage human experimentation has taken place – at a much earlier time than otherwise considered sound, and before satisfactory experiments have been carried out on animals. It was my background to point out that there is a cross of thought that in such a situation, where the disunity of research is increasing, and where scepticism is growing, so much emphasis is placed on the possible results in the future. There was nothing more than what I meant to point out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e378	It is, of course, quite right for the representative to say that with regard, among other things, to pay. lack of animal experimentation in this area. These researchers, who have a significant interest in these projects, have been very capable of marketing hopes, but they have certainly not had a lot of results to market. I'm not going to extend this debate unnecessarily, but since my view of women has been taken up by two representatives, I just want to say that of course I don't think the use of cells and tissues from abortions will lead to a significant increase in the number of abortions. I also think that women take responsibility, and I think abortion is a difficult choice. But precisely because this can be a difficult choice and one is in strong doubt, I believe that in such cases when a roadway to and from it can be decisive that one knows that there is the use of cells and tissues from aborted foetuses that might be useful in medical treatment. I would think that if you have an acquaintance, one in the family who suffers from such a current illness, the fact that a woman has to choose abortion can be conclusive.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e385	I drew myself to say that in spite of and with all respect for the view of Inge Wage, I owe it to me to make it clear that in the matter which he has raised today, he does not represent the Right View; it is his own view. So Are Næss gave me the opportunity to replicate back that I think what I said about his female vision, stands firm, when he thinks that women will find it easier to take abortion because parts of the aborted fetus cells and tissues can be used for something that might be a positive. It's so far from this -- as at least I know women, and as evolution has shown. Their self-determined abortion did not lead to an increase in the number of abortions. I feel quite confident that this will not do either.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e392	It just strikes me that Are Næss goes very far in the reasoning in the connection between a self-determined abortion and what might happen afterwards with the aborted material. It is clear that if there was such a close connection, there was every reason for such a strong counter-representation, but I understand that it is precisely to prevent that type of connection, by not being asked for prior consent. In addition, what Næss here sketches will require quite significant medical insight into understanding the consequences of an abortion on the use of the material afterwards. My impression is that Nose is going well well here when he draws the kind of dramatic conclusions of it, and he meets himself a little bit at the door too, because the consequences of it should just be increased abortions, which is what he says he doesn't think will be the result of the law change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e397	No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e405	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e411	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Annelise Höegh on behalf of the Right, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No. 3, by Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President first takes note of the proposal No. 1 and 3. Proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The ruling asks the Government to consider submitting a proposal for active consent by autopsy and how such consent can be obtained, e.g. through the fixed medical device.’;» Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to draw up autopsy regulations requiring prior authorisation from the related subject when the autopsy is not legally requested.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The Committee had advised Odelstingen to take such a decision to:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e514	The Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e605	Paragraph 8(c) contains an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the law on transplantation, hospital autopsy and discharge of equals etc. § 8(c) shall be replaced by the following:The use of foetal tissues for treatment and research shall be subject to approval by regional research ethics committees.’ The Christian People's Party and the Center Party have warned that they are opposed to a new Chapter II A. There will be a vote first on the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e625	It will then gather together Chapter II A §§ 8 a to 8 h.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e690	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-08-lower-2.ana.ud1420e700	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
