ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e54	The representatives of Kjell Engebretsen, Sverre Myrli, Lisbet Rugtvedt, Anne Helen Rui and Per Ove Width, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Helga Rullestad, has taken the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e88	International trade has more than fivefold over the past 50 years. There is little reason to doubt that trade has been a major cause of the prosperity development we have witnessed in the post-war period. Norway has one of the most open economies in the world. We have strong competitive advantages, such as large natural resources, well-developed infrastructure and a highly educated population. At the same time, we are vulnerable to conditions beyond our control. It has therefore been a central task of Norwegian foreign policy to work for a better organised world. I have previously briefed the Storting that an investigation project has been launched on global governance challenges. We have seen it as an important objective from Norway to strengthen the international trading system in order to ensure fair and predictable conditions of competition. The main tools in this context have been the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, GATT, and later the World Trade Organisation, WTO, after it was established six years ago. Today, the WTO includes 141 member countries. More than 110 of these are developing countries. At the same time, about 30 countries are on the candidate list, among them China, Russia and several important developing countries with which we work closely. When these join, over 98 pst. international trade takes place between WTO countries, and all of our priority co-operation countries will be members. This is how the World Trade Organisation has developed into a trade policy forum for the whole of the world society. The WTO will thus also become one of the main bodies for the further development of international driving rules to meet the challenges of globalisation. This means that we should all be concerned about what is going on in the WTO. I am therefore pleased with the occasion today to present our work in the World Trade Organisation and the preparations for the WTO Ministerial Conference in Qatar in November this year. The WTO's overarching objectives are increased living standards, full employment, improved real wage development and sustainable use of earth's resources. These are the goals we know well from our own political landscape, to which we join. Our challenge is how to further develop and strengthen the international trading system in order to achieve these objectives. Let me first briefly outline six overall policy objectives for our work in the WTO: Firstly, we support the work of making today's driving rules more fair and predictable. We must avoid that Norway and other small countries are subjected to arbitrary and unilateral measures, such as protectionism and anti-dumping measures. Secondly, we want the trading system to continue to ensure an ever better and more varied supply of goods and services at favourable prices for consumers. Thirdly, we are committed to ensuring better market access for Norwegian exports. This applies to products such as fish, industrial and high technology products, and to key service areas such as shipping, offshore, energy, engineering, environmental services, telecommunications and IT. Fourthly, we focus on maintaining national freedom of action in order to design the public sector as we wish and to pursue an active agricultural policy. Fifthly, we are concerned that WTO cooperation must reflect environmental considerations. We want the WTO's Sustainable Development Goal to be reflected in the mandate for the new negotiations. Last but not least, we are concerned that more needs to be done to safeguard the legitimate interests of developing countries, both in terms of market access, regulation and the transfer of competences. The objective must be to enable developing countries to better participate in and benefit from the international trading system in order to provide the basis for economic growth and development. This is essential for combating poverty and underdevelopment. Let me stress the importance Norway attaches to its international work that all countries respect basic labour standards. The government believes that our objectives can best be achieved through a new and broad round of negotiations within the World Trade Organisation. Only in this way will we be able to better integrate developing countries into the international trading system, establish better multilateral rules for trade and achieve enhanced market access for industrial products, including fish and fishery products. It remains unclear whether WTO countries are prepared to demonstrate the flexibility and political will needed to reach agreement on a new and broad round of negotiations during the Ministerial Conference for the autumn. However, I believe that there is a growing understanding among WTO Member States that a broad round is needed. At the OECD ministerial meeting in May, there was a positive signal of willingness for a broad round of negotiations, including the new administration in the United States. But the time is fast until the harvest. Realistically, most of what we can achieve in Qatar is agreement on the main framework for further negotiations. Informal consultations in Geneva and between the capitals are well under way, and Norway is actively involved in these processes. In this context, it is important to bear in mind that WTO decisions are based on consensus. It is not possible to force solutions against the will of the Member States. Many developing countries are sceptical about entering into negotiations in new areas such as investment, competition and the environment. If we are to move forward, we must try to meet some of the developing countries' demands for changes to existing WTO legislation. Without taking into account the interests of developing countries, it will not be possible to get a broad round. Negotiations on agriculture and services were initiated at the beginning of last year in the framework of the so-called integrated agenda, as decided at the end of the Uruguay Round in 1994. The service sector is the fastest growing part of international trade and is of major and increasing importance for Norwegian business. Norway’s trade in services forms an important part of Norwegian exports. Last year the value of Norway’s service exports amounted to approximately NOK 134 billion, of which shipping alone amounted to NOK 71 billion. The WTO Service Agreement establishes the right of Member States to make regulations to meet national policy objectives, such as: in the environment and health. Member States may decide for themselves what obligations they will assume during the negotiations, and these obligations shall be included in special binding lists for each country. In service negotiations, Norway has presented proposals in a number of areas that will strengthen the opportunities of Norwegian enterprises on the world market. The proposal covers six service areas where we want better market access. It is shipping, energy services, telecommunications services, financial services, aviation and important business and professional services. Only Norway and 36 other countries have so far undertaken commitments in the field of shipping. The United States and the EU are among those who have not taken on commitments. Therefore, a main objective for us will be to include shipping in the service agreement in a fully-fledged way, and that several countries take on commitments in this area. Energy services are another important sector. Norway has one of the world’s most open markets in this area. We have considerable competence here, and we will be served by other countries opening up their markets. We have proposed broad and open market access for all energy-related services. However, let me add, for the sake of order, that the negotiations here are not about ownership of natural resources or our concession law. We have seen positive developments in the export of business and professional services. The government has here promoted negotiating proposals that seek to help Norwegian companies in their further international efforts. For both IT and telecommunications services, Norway has an open market today. Moreover, this type of service is important for the social economy in all countries, not least in developing countries. This will therefore be a central negotiating area in which all countries should have an interest in open markets. For other service sectors, we also have consistently open markets in Norway. We want other countries to open their markets accordingly. Questions have been raised about whether the service agreement in the WTO could limit our national freedom of action to organise the public sector in Norway in the way we want. There can be no doubt that we have such an opportunity to organise the public sector in the way we find ourselves desirable. There is nothing in WTO legislation that prevents Member States themselves from deciding how to organise their public services, for example. education and health. The agreement clearly states that this right belongs to the Member States. We also have room for action to pursue policies to achieve our national cultural policy objectives. In the case of agricultural negotiations, we presented the Norwegian proposal in January this year. In this, we call for account to be taken of the diverse tasks of agriculture in addition to the production of food. In the agricultural negotiations, we work particularly closely with the EU and Japan, but also with other countries that largely share our views on the preservation of the so-called non-trade concerns in agriculture, such as rural areas, food security and the protection of cultural landscapes. Our view is that the future legislation must give each Member State sufficient space for action to develop a policy that ensures national production and that also takes care of non-commercial considerations. The Norwegian proposal further points out that countries with comparative disadvantages, such as climatic conditions, still need to be able to pursue policies that result in the use of production-dependent instruments. However, provided that the non-commercial considerations are adequately addressed, the proposal signals flexibility in future reductions in export aid. This signal will be important in relation to giving developing countries more equivalent market access for their agricultural products. The Norwegian proposal recognises that improved market access is a key element of the agricultural reform process. However, we stress that new market access obligations must be designed to give Member States only limited tariff reductions for so-called key products. In the case of internal aid, such as production-dependent subsidies, the Norwegian side is essentially committed to continuing current schemes so that some forms of aid are not subject to reduction obligations. The proposal also focuses on developing countries. Norway recognises that improved market access for agricultural products is of great importance to many developing countries and an important instrument for economic growth and poverty reduction. In addition to agriculture and services, increased market access for industrial products, including fish and fish products, is central to Norway in a new round of negotiations. Through GATT and EFTA/EEA, Norway has removed most of the customs duties on trade in goods. Today, we have duty-free access for most of our products in Europe, but with the exception of processed fishery products. Fish and fish products are also subject to trade restrictions in very many countries outside Europe, both in terms of customs duties and not customs barriers to trade. Given the very high importance of fisheries for the Norwegian economy and the high potential for development of the industry — which is not least essential for ensuring employment and housing along the Norwegian coast — it will be of great importance that we achieve the best possible market access for fish and fish products. At the same time, we want to reduce various subsidies and support measures to the fishing industry that lead to trade distortions and overfishing. We are also in favour of stricter legislation on the use of anti-dumping. Improved market access will also be of great importance to developing countries. Many developing countries are dissatisfied with the results of the Uruguay Round, in particular as regards market access for textiles and agricultural products and what they perceive as bias in existing legislation. The clarification of these issues is important in the preparation process ahead of the Qatar Ministerial Conference. Norway supports developing countries in a number of these cases. In particular, LDCs have little power to benefit from a more open international market and specific measures are discussed to help these countries. It is an important step that the EU countries and Norway have now decided to grant duty-free and quota-free imports of all products, except weapons, from the least developed countries. Let me also say a few words about some other important aspects of the WTO negotiations. I am thinking here of the relationship between trade and the environment, investment, labour standards and intellectual property rights. One result of the Uruguay Round was the so-called TRIPS Agreement on the protection of intellectual property rights, such as trade marks, patents and copyright. The TRIPS Agreement is essentially based on existing international conventions. The patent provisions of the Agreement aim, inter alia, at: to achieve a fair balance between the objective of stimulating research and the development of new products and the objective of providing access to existing products. Developing countries have so far brought forward some areas where they consider that there may be reason to make regulatory changes. This applies, inter alia, to: the relationship between the TRIPS Agreement and the UN Convention on Biological Diversity. Under the United Nations Convention, pre-consents are normally to be obtained by withdrawal of genetic resources. One way to address this concern may be to amend the TRIPS Agreement, so that a patent application must indicate the country from which the genetic material originates. On the Norwegian side, this will be carefully assessed. Another area where the patent provisions of the TRIPS Agreement affect the interests of developing countries relates to the field of medicinal products. In the fight against the HIV/AIDS epidemic, the price and availability of medicinal products are central. We must therefore ensure that patent law does not prevent the poorest countries from accessing medicinal products under reasonable conditions. In the Easter week, Norway hosted an expert conference organised by the WTO in cooperation with the World Health Organisation on the pricing and financing of important medicinal products. The provisional conclusions of this conference indicate that developing countries will be able to have the necessary access to reasonable patented medicinal products, based on the current TRIPS agreement. Furthermore, these issues will be discussed separately at the TRIPS Council meeting later this month. The relationship between trade and the environment is also an increasingly topical issue, as I said. One of the WTO’s overarching objectives is that of sustainable development. Open trade is a necessary but not sufficient instrument in this context. The Government will work to further integrate environmental considerations into the multilateral trading system. Environmental reviews are under way in Norway and other countries to clarify the impact on the environment of further opening up of world trade. We will draw on these analyses in the further work. In the WTO, developing countries have expressed scepticism to integrate environmental considerations into the multilateral trading system, in particular in the fear of environmental rules being able to exclude goods from the world market. Nevertheless, it must be said that although the debate in the WTO has revealed considerable disagreements both between developed and developed countries and between developed countries, it has also led to increased understanding of the different positions. Today, there is also closer cooperation between the WTO and the UN Environment Programme, UNEP. We will work to further strengthen this cooperation. The United States and many developing countries have been sceptical about negotiating investments in the framework of the WTO for various reasons. However, many countries, including an increasing number of developing countries, want multilateral rules to be established in the new round in this area. Norway’s starting point is to ensure both the right of host countries to regulate, for example: in the field of environment and working life, and investors’ needs for predictable framework conditions. It is clear that a WTO legislation providing predictable and non-discriminatory framework conditions will help developing countries to attract foreign investment, which in turn will be important for the economic growth and development of these countries. A multilateral regulatory framework for investment in the WTO must safeguard the interests of developing countries, and will thus differ substantially from the agreement that was tried in time to negotiate in the OECD. Norway has for a long time placed great emphasis on the work on human rights, including basic labour standards. We have been seeking to promote dialogue in the WTO on this in recent years. The aim has been to disseminate understanding that trade needs to be based more on the consideration of such fundamental rights. However, a number of countries, including all developing countries, oppose the development of basic labour standards legislation in the framework of the WTO. The background to this is that developing countries fear that a WTO labour standards regulatory framework will allow trade policy measures to be taken against developing countries with a reasonable workforce. However, in order to move forward in this work, the EU, which has the same basic position as Norway, has made proposals to see trade and social standards in a broader context. In addition to the WTO and the International Labour Organisation (ILO), this is aimed at involving other organisations, such as the World Bank, the Monetary Fund and the United Nations Development Programme, in an ongoing dialogue on working standards. This is a proposal we support from the Norwegian side. In addition, the Director-General of the ILO has recently taken the initiative of setting up a working group on the social consequences of globalisation, addressing issues related to employee rights. This is very positive. Otherwise, labour standards are central to our bilateral and multilateral aid cooperation. The further development of trade law in the WTO shall not only concern free trade. The Government will also work towards a fairer trading system that takes particular account of the situation and qualitative aspects of trade in developing countries relating to the environment, development and social rights. These are common challenges that can only be solved through common solutions. Norway will contribute to this. As a technologically advanced society with a high dependence on the rest of the world, Norway has a lot to gain from globalisation and a more open world market. However, we need to be aware that although this gives opportunities for growth and prosperity, there is no guarantee for this in itself. Increased globalisation can also lead to greater disparities, and many countries are lagging behind. Political governance of market forces is therefore needed. We need to strengthen and further develop today's global arrangements, such as WTO legislation. The government has therefore initiated a wide-ranging investigation into how we can contribute to better governance of international market forces. Since it proved impossible to reach agreement in Seattle on a new round of negotiations, we have witnessed a trend towards greater interest in bilateral and regional trade agreements. Such developments contribute to the weakening of the global trading system. This could be particularly negative for small countries such as Norway, and not least for developing countries. This is probably a reason why it is very important that the WTO Ministerial Conference in Qatar succeed. In conclusion, I would like to stress that both in the context of the negotiations on services and agriculture in progress and in the process of launching a new, wide-ranging round of negotiations, the Government will focus on maximum transparency and dialogue. We have therefore established a comprehensive consultative system with wide participation from organisations and businesses in Norway. I would like to say once again that I am happy to have this opportunity to brief now, because there is now a great deal of work going on for the Qatar Ministerial Conference, and therefore it is also important to hear the Storting's views on what I have presented here, which is also very important not only for Norway, but also for our entire globe. There are quite big things going on right now, and I hope we can manage to spread information about and interest in that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e214	The President will now propose that one representative of each party group be given the opportunity to comment on the foreign minister’s statement for up to five minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e217	The Minister for Foreign Affairs has given a thorough review of the overall policy objectives for Norway's work in the WTO and stressed that these objectives can best be achieved if agreement is reached on a new broad round of negotiations. It will be important for the Qatar Ministerial Conference to reach an agreement on a new broad round of negotiations that can further develop global trade legislation. I agree with the Government's assessments and priorities in the WTO work. The WTO is a key organisation for the implementation of binding rules on trade and capital flows in a globalised world, a prerequisite for balancing the major differences in living conditions between groups, countries and regions. This means that we integrate developing countries better. More needs to be done to safeguard the legitimate interests of developing countries, as the Foreign Minister also said, both in terms of market access, regulation and the transfer of competences. If developing countries can better participate in and benefit from the international trading system, they can provide the basis for economic growth and development. In this context, I would like to highlight the Government's decision to grant duty-free and quota-free imports to all products, except weapons, from the least developed countries. At the same time, we must contribute to investment in the same MUL countries and to the transfer of skills. We also need to recognise that developing countries and countries are different at the heart and that we are likely to have to work for compensation schemes for developing countries in the international trade regime. With regard to the ongoing service negotiations, I would like to stress what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the WTO service agreement does not restrict our national freedom to organise the public sector in Norway, for example. in the field of education and health. It is absolutely necessary to maintain national freedom of action in order to design the public sector as we wish. In addition to agriculture and services, increased market access for industrial products, including fish and fish products, is central to Norway in a new and wide round of negotiations. Market access negotiations are important for Norway both for markets outside Europe and for processed fish products on the European market. The fishing industry is important in ensuring employment and coastal settlement, and in addition, it is perhaps our most important value-creating industry alongside the oil sector. Therefore, it is of great importance for Norway to achieve the best possible market access for fish and fish products. Norway has long placed great emphasis on the work on human rights, including basic labour standards and professional rights, and we share that with the EU. We must have fair trade, not just free trade. The EU proposal, as mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is thus a constructive contribution to the attempt to move forward with such understanding, and Norway supports the proposal. Let me also mention the ILO initiative to set up a working group to address the social consequences of globalisation. The globalisation of the economy creates the need for new driving rules between countries and regions. It is therefore essential to participate in the design of WTO legislation. I would also like to refer here to the initiative taken by the Government to investigate how we can better help steer the international market forces. This shows that the Government takes the global governance challenge seriously. With 141 member countries, the WTO has developed into a trade policy forum for the whole of the world society, and the challenge is how to organise the trade regime in order to achieve the global objectives of poverty reduction, employment and sustainable development. Let's hope that the Ministerial meeting for the autumn will help us get a few steps on the way to a fairer international trading system and a fairer world. However, there may be many and long steps that need to be taken to ensure that the WTO becomes the global organisation that can benefit both countries and developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e238	: The further development of WTO trade legislation is not only important for Norway and other countries with a well-developed economy. Not least, it is important for developing countries and other countries that have now suffered for a long time under a very unfair world trade regime. The failed rounds of negotiations in Seattle showed that there was a great deal of lack of transparency and communication and dialogue, both with professional organisations and not least with public organisations, which are needed to make such rounds of negotiations successful. Transparency and debate are important prerequisites for a good process. Exclusion and resolution in enclosed spaces is a source of suspicion and conflict. It's a hard lesson, which I think the entire WTO system learned in Seattle, and I think of the strategies that are now being put forward as a clear correction to the strategy that was tried in Seattle, but that did not lead. I am very pleased with the Foreign Minister's statement today. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs expressed it: it is not just about ensuring Norway better access to international markets with its products and services. It is not least to adopt a fairer trading system, which takes the necessary account of the situation of developing countries, of the environment, development and social rights. And I think it was good that the Foreign Minister stressed this so much in his presentation. We need to establish driving rules for world trade and investments that can prevent it from being the strongest right. And Norway should take responsibility here as a rich country that has confidence in international society, actively working to ensure that, in particular, smaller nations and nations with weak economies, including developing countries, a voice and fairer participation in the forums where such driving rules are laid down. The six overall policy objectives mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the work of Norway in the WTO, which are also in line with the above-mentioned priorities for environment, development and social rights, therefore, I have no objections. The Christian People's Party also supports the Government's assessment that these objectives can best be achieved through a new broad WTO round of negotiations. And in this way, of course, the Qatar Ministerial Conference becomes important. We must take seriously the objections raised by many developing countries to negotiations on investment, competition and the environment. A broad upsurge and understanding in Qatar, where developing countries will also be part of the future international trading system, will require flexibility, understanding and also a great deal of recognition from the rich countries. And I understood the Minister for Foreign Affairs today that these are attitudes that Norway wants to bring with it and to approach in the important process that is now going to take place, and I am so pleased with the signals given today. With regard to the Norwegian interests, I would just like to point out, for my part, one of the main areas of service negotiations that is particularly important with Norwegian eyes, namely shipping. Several countries, including the United States and the EU, must be willing to take on more commitments in this area. It will create a greater degree of predictability and justice for this important service sector in Norwegian business. With regard to goods exports, as Mrs Nybakk also mentioned, the market access for fish and fish products is particularly important to us. Given the future enlargement of the EU, it is important that we meet the failure of free trade agreements for fish and fish products with general favourable market conditions through the WTO system. Finally — just to repeat it: to land in Qatar, it is important for the rich countries to show the necessary response and flexibility. Only then can a global trading system ensure that countries with weak economies, including developing countries, are also involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e255	It is useful enough to get a statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on such key issues as this, and it is useful enough to have a quick response round in Stortinget after such a presentation, but I must say that a particularly satisfactory treatment of such an area is not at all. It would be desirable if we had had time for a normal deliberation of such an important statement as this, because these are important issues that are on the agenda, and in particular because a thorough debate, of course, requires a closer knowledge of the positions than what can and should be said in this way. I would therefore like to emphasise that the bodies of the Storting function throughout the 12-month period, and that it is important that the Government maintains close contact with the Storing in the further work, even when it is not assembled, especially with regard to those things that give difficult balances. And difficult balances will be many of them in a debate like this — for example. is the question of the extent and manner in which investment issues are to be addressed in the next round, complicated. If that makes sense, then it depends on what you regulate and how you regulate it, and there are issues that require ongoing dialogue. But let it be clear that it is very important, on the right, to stress the need for a new round of negotiations on trade liberalisation. It is important that free, open world trade is a central Norwegian objective. It is not immediately stated that such a line will be broken, but the principle is necessary to hold up, not least in the Norwegian debate now that the resistance to globalisation is gathering. There is no doubt that it is important for Norway as a nation to have access to the world market for our products and what we have to sell. So let's try to figure out what these possibilities are, for example. in Coast Norway, there is just a free, open world trade that is the answer to this. I think it's important that we approach this question, not on the grounds of anxiety and need to protect ourselves, but on the basis that as a nation, we see the possibilities that are now there if we are willing to make use of the whole world. It is therefore important that the Government is clear on these issues. I notice that the Minister of Foreign Affairs from time to time is out flirting with the anti-globalization forces. What he adds to this with the management of market forces, I am not sure. Probably a lot falls with empty barrels, but that's the kind of music you like to listen to on the left hand side, and if he limits himself to falling with empty barrels, I'm happy. The important thing is to do the right things. And a lot of what was said in the presentation is the right thing. However, there are some important target conflicts – for example:: Is the desire for free trade in fish being pursued sufficiently vigorously? And is there sufficient flexibility in the negotiating arrangements for agriculture so that we can provide the necessary resources to achieve a proper and open world trade in fishery products? I noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs made it quite clear that it is not only in relation to the EU system that we have problems with fish, there are also other areas where there are restrictions that are possible to do something about. I noticed that very many people are rightly concerned with the situation of the developing countries, and I stress that. However, Norway has not been among the top countries in this area either. At the same time, it has been a struggle to give developing countries greater access to the world market. That is why it is important that we remember what this is all about – that is to give an open opportunity on equal terms to developing countries as well. That means that in the new rounds of negotiations we should not introduce new advanced rules that make it difficult for them to compete again. We're high on the ladder in terms of living standards, and there's no need to draw the ladder up after us. Therefore, I would like to stress that a free, open world trade is an important political objective, and I would like to ask the Government to maintain continuous contact with the Stortinget as the difficult assessments are called upon.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e270	The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed the growing importance of the WTO. The number of countries that have joined the agreement and the combined trade represented by these countries gives a good picture of this. It is therefore appropriate to stress that the WTO has become an important body to discuss the direction in which the development of international trade is to take place. With increasing importance, there has also been a growing interest in negotiations – greater attention and greater controversy. The centre party believes it is important to work for a fair international trade where there is a high level of predictability. However, one of the fundamental problems of the WTO remains that the focus is far more on ‘free trade’ than ‘fair trade’. Work around the WTO continues to be one-sided towards the most liberalised trade, giving many countries, for example: Norway, a repeated need to stress that we should be able to maintain national freedom of action, that we should be able to reflect sustainable development, and that we must have freedom of action to organise public services in a way that we want. But I think we should recognise that the pressure that arises is in the direction of more liberalisation. If we formally have mechanisms to secure the environment, agriculture and the public sector, we will constantly experience that we have the burden of proof against us. The central party is of the opinion that this is also one of the reasons for the partly strong counter-reactions created by the WTO negotiations in recent years. We believe that a different and renewed starting point could give the debate on international trade a far stronger mark of constructive dialogue than what we have seen recently. Connecting the WTO to the UN system would be a contribution to that. It could enable a broader approach to trade issues. In particular, it would be valuable to bring the WTO closer to the UN's work on environmental and sustainable development. The Central Party notes that the Government wants to move forward in a new broad WTO round of negotiations, but that it is unclear how far it will be possible to go during the Ministerial Conference to the autumn. The central party is of the opinion that one should have met the demands that have now been made for the evaluation of today’s agreements, before going on in a broad round of negotiations that also includes new areas. We think it would be important not least to be able to contribute to a long-term dialogue in the WTO that will be sustainable and constructive. With regard to the ongoing negotiations on agriculture and services, they would also have benefited from a broader perspective. Not least the situation in European agriculture during the spring indicates this. We have been reminded of what intensive agriculture can lead to in terms of risks related to both animal health, public health and food safety. This is a perspective that needs to be taken seriously in the debate on international rules on food trade. I also have to say that it should not be necessary for Norwegian trade union movement even to ask questions about whether an increase in privatisation or less freedom of action for the public sector is at risk through the GATS negotiations. With regard to the signals issued by the Government regarding the further design of the TRIPS agreement, inter alia: by assessing a system in which a patent application can indicate the country from which the genetic material originates, it is our opinion that such a change would have been an important step in the right direction. It is a work that should continue, and it is an initiative that should be taken regardless of whether there will be a wide round of negotiations in the future or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e287	I would first like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation. SV has been concerned that the Storting should be regularly updated on the processes under way in the WTO. Both the WTO and national authorities need to devote more energy and resources to debate and investigation on globalisation. The investigation project launched by the Government on global governance challenges is an important and good initiative in this way. There is a clear need to meet the increasing globalisation with common rules and a better organised world. However, the rules must not only be determined on the basis of the interests of ordinary people, of the poor and on the grounds of the environment. SV is initially skeptical to a new broad WTO round. We have a great sense of the demand made by a variety of environments, of a moratorium in the WTO, of a halting and evaluating the impact of the trade liberalisation that has taken place so far, and looking at effects, for example. for distribution, environment and resource management. The SV also wants the UN to be strengthened in the field of trade policy in order to be a powerful organisation and an effective arena to contribute to the rules of the game for globalisation. In the case of negotiations on services, it is not so easy to see the scope of what is Norway’s negotiating arrangement. But SV would have wanted Norway to be clearer in the defence of the public sector. The Minister of Foreign Affairs claimed that there could be no doubt that the WTO service agreement will not restrict our national freedom of action to organise the public sector in the way we ourselves want. I want to explain why I think it is wrong to be so sloppy about this. The GATS Agreement states that services provided by public authorities are not included in the agreement. However, such services are defined in point 1.3(b) of the GATS Agreement as services provided neither on a commercial basis nor in competition with one or more service providers. As is known, a number of public services are gradually being exposed to competition from one or more service providers and therefore this does not seem to be a sustainable definition. When public services are exposed to competition in countries that have traditionally had a strong welfare state, it is not surprising that there is a pressure from large companies to open up these growing service markets, for example. in the field of health and education for international free competition. The question is therefore whether the Norwegian Government wishes to contribute to the repair of this weakness in the GATS Agreement and is working towards a clearer definition of which public services are not to be covered by the GATS competition rules. Unfortunately, the Norwegian debate proposal does not make it clear that the Government will enter into negotiations with an active defence for the public sector. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed that WTO decisions are based on consensus. It's a clear advantage in terms of SV's vision. However, once the agreements have been signed, it is important that the wording is clear and unambiguous, so that it is not the dispute resolution mechanisms that determine important issues of principle. In connection with WTO meetings, we have seen growing unrest and demonstrations in recent years. This must be taken seriously and seen as a sign of a crisis of confidence in the relationship between political authorities and organisations involved in solidarity and environmental issues. No matter what one may think of the strongly varied message of those who demonstrate, this commitment and lack of trust must be taken seriously. The demonstrations express distrust for the functioning of the WTO system to promote environmental considerations and poverty reduction, or that these are truly overarching objectives for WTO negotiations. This is where the burden of proof lies on the WTO system. Many also have an understandable view that politicians are not trying well enough to control development and globalisation, but on the contrary, globalisation processes allow them to take control and allow multinational companies to sit in the driver's seat. SV believes it is important for civil society to be involved in decision-making on global gambling rules. There is a natural consequence of power being transferred from the nation state to international institutions. Civil society must be involved in the negotiation process itself, as is the case in a number of UN processes. Former Minister of Foreign Affairs Knut Vollebæk called for the establishment of a consultative body under the Director-General of the WTO, representing the social partners, NGOs and academics, which could provide useful input to WTO work. I hope the Foreign Minister will follow this up. Rules of play in the age of globalisation must include strengthening professional rights and social standards internationally. However, there appears to be a broad consensus that the WTO is not the right framework for such rules, and that the use of trade restrictions is a scarcely suitable tool for promoting higher labour standards in poor countries. Voluntary campaigns, consumer attitudes, assistance, political pressure and rules for multinational companies are more appropriate. The Minister of Foreign Affairs stated that the Government has taken a more nuanced view of this than Norway has in the past, and that is positive. It is also positive that the Government expresses so clearly that Norway will contribute to the promotion of developing countries’ interests in a new WTO round.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e310	The Progress Party has always fought for the widest possible free trade, and we naturally adhere to the WTO's overarching objectives such as increased living standards, full employment, better real wage development and the sustainable use of earth's resources, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs put it in his very interesting and in many areas good presentation to the Stortinget. What still surprises us, however, is the trend in the Norwegian Government to take a different view of agricultural products than on other commodities, and how difficult it is to obtain free trade. He says yes to free trade and market access in other countries for the products that are interesting for us to produce, while having a negative attitude towards the products that other countries want to have market access with us. E.g. said the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his statement: ‘Thirdly, we are committed to ensuring better market access for Norwegian exports. These relate to products such as fish, industrial and high-technology products, and to important service areas such as shipping, offshore, energy, engineering, environmental services, telecommunications and IT.» We fully agree with that. And we hope for a greater degree of market access for this. But then, all of a sudden, in the statement: ‘Fourth, we focus on maintaining national freedom of action in order to design the public sector as we wish and to pursue an active agricultural policy.’ The public sector comprises, inter alia: a large part of service production, and that is where you want to be able to have limitations. And there are great limitations in the fact that in the public sector in Norway there is a high level of self-production in services, rather than buying services from a market. In this way, others who want to actively provide services to the Norwegian market are excluded. After industrial times, with concrete goods, services are just growing dramatically in the international and national economies. More and more resources are being used for the production of services, and more and more of our own resources are being used for the purchase of services. It is therefore disappointing that the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs do not have the same open attitude to market access and competition internationally for service production, where the public is a very large payer and buyer of services. There is too much self-production in Norway. Here, the government should add to the ideal goals of the other products that I mentioned. The same applies to agriculture – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs later mentions in his statement – where we work closely with the EU and Japan. We cannot understand that these are reasonable alliance partners, because agricultural products should be treated essentially like all other products. I would like to mention again what we have said earlier: with regard to our relationship with the EEA and the EU, we should take the initiative to improve fish market access, in return for better market access for EU agricultural products. Indeed, it would be in line with the WTO's overarching objectives of increasing living standards, full employment, better real wage development, etc. that we also receive an increased level of free trade in agricultural products and place far less emphasis on the so-called non-commercial concerns of agriculture. I think the statement unfortunately shows that the Government is not prepared to reconsider its position in these areas. That should make sense. It shouldn't be that we actually say to other countries that we also take care to protect ourselves when we want to, but we want market access for the products that we want to export. That's what prevents free trade from growing. We think the government should have a much more fundamental positive attitude to free trade, and then follow it up in all product areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e345	The Left supports the main lines of the Foreign Minister's statement. I would like to link some brief comments to some aspects that the Left is very concerned about. With a small and open economy, Norway has benefited from international trade being governed by strong multilateral legislation based on non-discrimination. We need trade legislation that regulates the interests of large and small and rich and poor countries in a balanced way. That is why the Left wants a new broad round of negotiations in the WTO, both to safeguard Norwegian business interests in foreign markets and to ensure that world trade takes account of the environment, social rights and consumer rights. It's important that a new round becomes a green round. Environmental considerations must become a natural part of the legislation. A new round must also take more account of the needs of developing countries, in particular the least developed countries. Technical assistance to the poorest countries in the negotiations must therefore be strengthened. In order for the WTO to strengthen its legitimacy and efficiency, the organisation must become more transparent and inclusive, both in internal processes and externally. Negotiations must be conducted as far as possible in a transparent manner. The reactions around the previous round show the need for transparency, and it is important to facilitate participation and transparency in organisations with both environmental, professional and developing countries. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs highlighted this in his statement, but emphasises that this is a very great potential for improvement. I think it is absolutely essential to succeed in the important tasks that one here faces, that the WTO process has a wider popular anchoring. The left considers globalisation to be positive and necessary in order to achieve important objectives, but a more international economy also needs binding international driving rules. It is in that perspective that we hope and believe that WTO negotiations can be useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e360	In short, just to be told at least that: I feel that there is broad support here in the Stortinget that Norway should be working for a new broad round of negotiations. I guess it's just the Center Party that's been skeptical about it. But I also notice that you have slightly different views about what should be the Norwegian positions, for example. in the case of agriculture, as found in the articles on the Right and the Progress Party. I must be able to see that the Government still shares our view, namely that we must at least for the time being look at agriculture as being in a special situation and having a broader function than merely providing products that we can eat. It has a function of maintaining settlement, of maintaining cultural landscapes. It's an environmental factor. It is also a country that the EU countries and Japan use. That's why we're working with them to agree to these points of view. I am aware, as it emerged from both the contributions of the Right and the Advance Party, that this is, of course, related to how far we can go in terms of fish and fish products. It is not that we can take a maximum restrictive position on agriculture, and then a maximum opposite position on fish. Nor has it been the basis of the arrangement that we have worked with. It's right to underline it, as the Right Party and the Advance Party did. I still think that a balanced approach to this is necessary. I agree entirely with what Einar Steensnæs said about the need for openness and dialogue. My impression is that what happened in Seattle has helped, and that now there is a greater openness and a desire for a broader dialogue with society outside. That's what's going on. Jan Petersen had a visit to my so-called flirting with the anti-globulation cancers. I don't think you should think of it as anti-globalization forces. It is a natural and necessary scepticism, not to globalisation as such, but to the outbursts of globalisation and a desire to do something about it. I don't think there are so many people who think you should turn the clock back. At least I don't mean that. That's not possible. However, it is absolutely necessary to introduce rules and governance mechanisms, as we have done at national level, in order to mitigate and also remove the negative effects of globalisation. When Jan Petersen says you fall with empty barrels, I'd say it's the most liberal cancers here that are the empty barrels, because there's nothing inside them. That's why they fight so much too. So if you could get any content in the barrels, I think the resistance would be significantly subdued and less audible. What I perceive as purpose, among other things. behind the Attac movement, is to achieve a balancing of the cancers. It's clear that there are also people who want the abolition of market forces, but I think that's a few. Everyone realizes that it is necessary to build on market mechanisms. But we need stronger rules, precisely in order for these market mechanisms to work and also to lead to a fairly fair distribution globally. We can get back to that. I also take the signal that Jan Petersen gave, that it is important that the Government keeps in touch with the organs of the Storting in the running process. Several of the questions that have been raised here, I think it may be necessary to have an appropriate discussion with the Storting. I'm actually thinking about the negotiating positions we have. And as it approaches the Qatar Ministerial Conference, it may be necessary to do exactly what Jan Petersen asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e376	That is when the debate is on case No. 1 over. [[Fotation, see page 3390]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e392	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3390]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e408	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3390]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e422	When the scheme was adopted in Stortinget a little over a year ago, it was subject to the agreement of the State, the Municipal Council, the Municipality of Oslo and the Norwegian Medical Association on the financial conditions of the scheme. The negotiations were time-consuming, and the parties agreed to suspend the arrangement from 1 January 2001 to 1 June 2001, i.e. today! Three major agreements have been concluded: Firstly, a framework agreement between the KS and the Medical Association which regulates the obligations of doctors and local authorities and the rights of the permanent scheme. As an annex to this framework agreement, a template is provided for how the individual agreements can be concluded between the local authority and the local authority. Secondly, a special agreement between the same parties. Here, the pay conditions for doctors and tour operators in the municipal health service are agreed with a contract of employment, including doctors in the fixed medical scheme. The agreements regulate inter alia: medical care, compensation for public medical work and round-the-clock allowance. Third, an agreement called the State Agreement. It regulates the economic conditions of doctors with municipal agreements and doctors with county agreements. These include: the basic financial contribution per year; is based on the doctor's list set at NOK 278. The agreements, including the consequences of the roof stop, including for medical specialists and medics, total 280 million. kr. This is included in the revised national budget for 2001, and a comprehensive social committee recommends this. I want to add some information to show that the scheme is well received by most people. Almost 80 pst. the public has given feedback that they will be included. Only 0.5 pst. has chosen to stand out of the scheme. Since the fixed medical system is a right for patients, they may join the fixed medical system later, if they so wish. At country level, lists with a capacity of 12 pst have been registered. more than there are residents in the country. Only 46 doctors have chosen to be outside the fixed medical system. For patients, it is positive that most doctors have now opted for a permanent contract without an operating contract. It means a fairer proportion. I think there have been good arrangements for the Tournament doctors, and I hope that they will continue to determine later. Further determinations are still needed to allow the whole country to participate. The Committee expresses its concern that 297 lists are without a doctor. I looked at the numbers of the social security system yesterday, and there are daily improvements. In my own county, East Agder, everyone has been assigned a doctor. Nine out of ten inhabitants throughout the country have been given the determination they have wanted, showing figures from the Riksstrøgdeverket. Yet we read about families that have to deal with as many doctors as they have family members. After the start-up problems have been overcome and all of the ‘child diseases’ have been cured, I am sure that the fixed medical system will be in the best interests of all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e450	I did not intend to speak in this debate, because this is about changes in the 2001 state budget as a result of the reform of the system. But it's clear that when the case rapporteur starts with political polemics here, and talks about how well this system works, how great this is, how everyone gets to their wishes and that's not how it works, you have to make some comments. I think the case rapporteur has also joined the media lately and seen that this system is far from working as it is now, both from the Minister of Health that it is so great, and – I kept saying – from other parties here. On the contrary, it turns out that this scheme does not work at all – when people from North Norway are given permanent leave in South Norway, when a municipality doctor in Central Norway is assigned to himself as a regular, when people who have had the same doctor for a number of years are assigned to other doctors, when doctors have trouble filling up their lists because people will not be there, when they are using coercive measures to get people on them. And when we see in the future that people are going to start switching doctors, you will experience that the lists are full. This is a system that the Advance Party has been opposed to, and is going to be opposed, because this deprives the individual patient of the right to choose his or her doctor himself, you are being granted a doctor, you have great restrictions on being able to see the doctor you want, and it is going to be an answer when you start switching doctors as you find that the doctor does not work as you wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e459	I had not thought I would say anything either, but I think the rapporteur's posts here sketched a picture of the situation, so there was absolutely reason to say something. It is clear that there are a number of problems associated with implementation, and there are significant challenges that remain to make the scheme work. In its time, the right opposed the fixed medical system because we considered that the problems of primary health services are largely a matter of lack of general practitioners, more than the need for basic reforms in primary health services. Most people who wanted it had their fixed doctor, and we are strongly in doubt whether this scheme will lead to some improvements for the users. Experience so far has revealed problems and frustrations for both patients, doctors and municipalities, and reactions have been partly strong. It is a fact that 325,000 people are left undetermined, 400 doctors are missing in order to implement the scheme throughout the country, and several municipalities have to get suspension from the law from day one because of lack of a doctor. It's no longer reliable. The right still believes that it has been very unfortunate to implement the fixed medical system when the lack of a doctor is so great. It may seem that there were principles more than what is going on in the real world, which was the strongest driving force behind the implementation of the fixed medical system. But it is the reality that governs our everyday lives, and there is now a system in place, a principle that cannot be implemented across the country, because hundreds of doctors are missing. The fixed medical system will lead to stronger public control and management of medical activities and to a reduction in the participation and accessibility of users. It is a paradox that we now have free hospital choice in the specialist health service, but in the case of primary health services, we are going the opposite way. Patients are, in fact, exempt from free choice, even if they have the opportunity to exchange twice a year. A hundred thousand and so it's already changed before the scheme comes into force. So hundreds of thousands are left undetermined, and I'm afraid that in the future we will experience that there will be a lot of resources spent on bureaucracy instead of on treatment. Of course, the right is satisfied with the fact that most people have been given a doctor, but they did – as I said earlier – from before. ‘Security and accountability’ was the title of the call for proposals on the fixed medical scheme, which was dealt with at Stortinget in 1997. For the time being, there are a lot of people who experience the opposite. But of course, the right is that the fixed medical system – against the right’s wishes – is being introduced from now on. Of course, we should contribute what is possible and necessary to make the system work properly, because this applies to patients. The most important challenge now is to recruit enough doctors so that everyone, wherever they live, can get help when they need it. I was going to challenge the Minister of Health if he had been present, but it is possible the Minister of Social Affairs can answer. There are, as I said, significant problems associated with recruiting adequate doctors for primary health care. I could imagine hearing what concrete plans the government has now to recruit more doctors, and get this system to function equally throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e476	In that respect, it is not up to the President to address what is at issue today. But it is about a change in the 2001 state budget as a result of a reform that has already been adopted, so it has not been invited to a rematch on the matter itself. – This is just a reminder, when we know that we have a long map ahead of us, and it’s Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e479	We have all recorded the benefits and disadvantages of the fixed medical system, and we have registered in the media the unfortunate, partly totally unacceptable results that have come from the allocation of the permanent staff. But the matters to which the rapporteur referred are unanimous comitology, which points out both positive and negative conditions in the process so far. And it is true, as the President points out, that this is about budgetary implications and a system that has been adopted. When the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party here now conclude that the scheme has failed, and therefore evaluates a system before it comes into force, I hope that the representatives of these parties will grant a slightly longer observation time to evaluate other health reforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e484	I would like to remind the House that this is a matter of changes in the state budget as a result of the fixed medical system, there is no dispute about the scheme itself. I think the case rapporteur here presented the matter in an excellent way, and I fully support her. The few things – of course in relation to the size of the scheme – that follow in the wake of such a big case for patients are now being corrected. I also think that the Rikstrøgdeverket here is doing a very good job, and I look forward to the fact that, once the scheme has worked for some time, we can take the debate that some representatives are trying to get started here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e491	It was this rematch that made me think I too would take the floor. It is clear that there is a certain rematch on the fixed medical system that applies here, instead of looking at this matter, where – as it was pointed out – it is a unanimous attitude. We have warned against any entry problems, even when we dealt with this matter – even though we were in favour of it – not least in relation to the organisation, adaptation and this with the allocation of patients to doctors, so that all parties are as satisfied as possible. Now, in general, the lack of doctors in the general medical services in the districts is the main problem here. This is what I want to point out some facts about, because it is very expensive to be small and poor, and it also turns out in this case. These include: the lack of medical services in the districts that have made it difficult to adapt to lists. That's why I want to ask the government to continue to prioritise some things here. Incentives for recruitment to the general medical service, as stated in the recommendation, are involved in making the Medical Association realize that they must accept more than they have until now that their members and their professional colleagues are entering public medical services and are performing that job, including in the fixed medical scheme. The third is that with the rotational scheme, the toural allowance that is now in place will be passed on, and that a sheep will be given the best possible arrangement for the toural medical service, which can be a good supplement in district municipalities and also in other municipalities. But this must be under proper management, so that there is also a dependency on one having trained medical staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e502	Surprisingly, when there was a debate on this already adopted arrangement, I will take up the glove that the representative Sjöli threw at me in the absence of the Minister of Health. How are we going to get enough doctors in the public health service? In fact, I believe that this system itself will be functioning recruiting, because it will create more transparent jobs and more satisfactory medical jobs all over the country. Secondly, the educational capacity of doctors is increased, we are constantly recruiting new doctors from abroad, it is our own incentives, and I want to mention the programme for general medical professional development in North Norway, which is operated in cooperation with the University of Tromsø. In addition, we see that the trials with intercommunal medical officers are some of the things that help to make working days better in the districts, so that more doctors can manage to be there longer. Many of the problems that have arisen in the distribution of patients to lists have now been mentioned. I can assure you that the Minister of Health is taking a lot of his time to get the last one that has not yet been assigned to the doctor they want. We are also committed to seeing how public medical services can be well adapted to this system. We are also happy to have a tour agreement in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e515	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3390]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e529	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that this debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a change of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by the members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e540	Among the members of the Social Committee, I am the one with the shortest time left to age 67. That I was elected case rapporteur for the proposal by the representatives Siv Jensen and Harald T. Nesvik to reward those who wish to contribute to their labour force after age 67, I therefore see as a clear lead from the committee towards a positive attitude. That's what it's going to be. The background to the proposal is that, in a situation where we need labour, we have good opportunities to dispose of pensions early, and we have largely good pension conditions. And we're going to have that. However, in order to encourage pensioners between 67 and 70 years of age who wish to remain in the labour market, the proposers ask the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the law on social security that reward those who wish to contribute to their labour force after age 67. A majority of the Committee, all except the Workers' Party, supports this proposal. And the majority goes further. The majority specifically asks ‘The Government of the State budget for 2002 proposes raising the threshold of labour income that pensioners between 67 and 70 years of age may have without curtailment in the pension, from 1 to 2 times the basic amount of the population’. In this way, we get a timely proposal as a starting point for further action. The members of the Workers' Party believe that this issue should be assessed by the Pensions Commission and propose this. In this respect, I would like to point out that this Commission has just been appointed, with two and a half years' service, and it has not yet had its first meeting. And we need action now. The majority's proposal is a guarantee that something will happen in this case. It provides a time frame for start-up, and is otherwise in line with the Christian People’s Party’s action programme for the next majority period, which states that ‘there is a need to facilitate the working of healthy pensioners without reducing social security from the age of 67’. For my part, I think it's okay to start fulfilling this program for the next period already now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e559	The proposal we are discussing here today is intended only to reward those who want to contribute their labour force after the age of 67. The proposers also say that they have never wanted to support the AFP scheme, but rather want a flexible scheme of lower pensions adapted to the benefit base of the population’s population’s return from age 60. The proposers, the representatives Jensen and Nesvik of the Progress Party, argue with the possibility of finding a hidden labour reserve in the population and encouraging those who can and will to stand at work. The proposers point out that the retirement pension from social security is a vested right that comes into force from the age of 67, based on the earned right and the premium paid in the year of vesting. But contractual pensions are the negative ones, even if they are contractually agreed between the social partners and the state. Retirement is also an acquired right – for trade unionists. It is worth noting that it only seems to be the Workers' Party and SV that support the AFP scheme. A contractual pension is a vested right of the trade unionists. You have to work until you get a fixed-term pension at the age of 62 and have a ten-year vesting period. A typical AFP pensioner is one who has started very early in working life, who has often had hard, uncomfortable work, which is tired, and who has a salary of 150,000 to 200,000 kroner per year. These are workers with long experience, experience skills and punctuality. Part-time, bonus and job breakage are important for seniors, and many might also think of working a little as temporary workers when they're AFP pensioners, but they can only make $4,000 a year in addition to AFP. This irritates people strongly, but they still take pensions, as they are entitled to, and society loses large labour reserves. I would like to point out that the AFP is largely financed by the companies, and that the employees prioritised this scheme in several tariff settlements at times when it was important for the country's economy to have moderate settlement. These are vested rights through work and agreements, and very many people need this opportunity to withdraw from the labour market in a dignified way. Many are at an early age for various reasons. A few weeks ago, some of us were visiting a municipality in Hedmark. There we met a young lady who had an education, but because of her disability no employer wanted to take her to work, so she goes on disability and feels that society doesn't need her. This is waste of resources. We need to find solutions to this. It's here, in the younger groups that's out there, we have the largest reserve of labour. There is no evidence of experience to suggest that changes in the curtailment rules for them between 67 and 70 years of age are due to the fact that few over 67 years of age are at work. Making rules that make it far more beneficial for this group to earn something outside the pension, without curtailment, will be seen as very unfair for many younger people who have different pension schemes for different reasons. The government has set up a pension commission to work on these issues. I find it very objectionable to anticipate this work, as the majority does. However, it may be desirable for the Commission to assess this particular problem as quickly as possible and to find solutions that encourage it to stay in operation. There is a need for more labour, and when people retire, it may be difficult to get them back. Competence and labour will then be lost. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e578	Reidun Gravdahl has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e581	Labour is one of the largest scarcity factors in Norway and a number of measures are needed to increase access in the years to come. On the right, a package of measures was presented in the autumn to increase access, including: by freeing labour through conversion and renewal, the use of competition in the public sector and through an active follow-up of social security and social assistance beneficiaries in order to bring them back to work as far as possible. And for those who still have a reserve of labour, it has to be facilitated, both by the government and by the labour market, so that the residual working capacity can be exploited. It's good for the individual, and it's good for the community. The right also believes that the real retirement age needs to be increased in relation to what it is today, by making it more profitable for older workers to work rather than retire. Employment among those over 60 years of age has fallen in recent years. Most people who leave work between 60 and 66 years of age lose AFP or disability benefit. Many of the workers are tired and have good reasons for ending a long working life, but more and more 60-year-olds want to work longer. A look-up in the Municipal Report 25 May shows that payments to a contractual pension have increased by 30 p.m., and that municipalities spend a lot of resources on paying people for them not to work. These are people the municipalities have to replace. The right is against this scheme, and rather would have a system where the age pensions of the population are made more flexible in relation to the age limit and the size of the pension. Document No The 8th proposal we are considering today is identical to the one that was put forward by the Right in connection with the budget for the current year and to which the Progress Party joined. We are very pleased that it is now a majority for this. I think many have experienced today's rules as an obstacle to those who still want to contribute to the labour market. It's a paradox that when active pensioners between 67 and 70 years of age pass 70 years, they don't get any curtailment in the pension, but can earn unlimited income alongside the full pension. It's actually a good part that also works after they're 70 years old. We cannot have pension schemes that stimulate people to leave the labour market and punish those between 67 and 70 years of age who have an income of over 1 G in addition to their earned and legal pension, with a curtailment in pension benefits. On the contrary, they should be rewarded for wanting to work beyond retirement age of 67 years. Older workers are a resource; they have valuable skills, knowledge and experience that society urgently needs. People live longer and are healthier, and many have a lot to contribute. In today's labour shortage situation, it is even more important to facilitate that this group can also contribute its labour force if they so wish. Work life needs to facilitate the use of this resource. As I said, this proposal is identical to what has been advocated by the Right in the context of the budget, and we are very pleased that there is now a majority in favour of raising the limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e601	The representatives of Storting Siv Jensen signed the promotion in Document No. 8:84 proposal to ask the Government to submit proposals to reward those who wish to contribute their labour force after the age of 67. The background to this proposal is that in recent years we have seen a sharp increase in the number of employed persons in Norway. This has resulted in a development that has progressed towards a shortage of skilled labour. At the same time, we have had a development in which some groups of the work force have been given the opportunity to leave earlier. This may include, inter alia: mention is made of the fact that large groups have chosen to benefit from the AFP scheme. The different types of early retirement schemes have further contributed to the situation of manning problems. In view of this problem, it is very important to look at how to use the labour reserve that we have. It cannot be that people who wish to continue in their working life after the age of 67 should be penalised by reducing their pension by what they should be able to earn over 1 G. In this way, a signal is sent out to a group of people that they are no longer wanted in the world of work – this is because the state collects parts of the pension, which, after all, is an acquired right for which individuals have paid for a long professional life. Those who wish to continue to work usually possess a very high level of competence in their field of competence, and thus may be a resource of very great importance to each enterprise. We need to be aware that a number of people between 67 and 70 years of age, as this abbreviation applies, are very healthy and up-to-date people who really want to continue to be able to contribute to their labour force. It has to be concluded that one considers older people to have expired, and one has to view this group of people as a very important resource group with a high level of competence. It is therefore gratifying that this proposal is now fully implemented by the Progress Party, which initially ensures that this group can now earn twice as much as before before the curtailment of the pension takes place. And most importantly, the government must now present any other changes in the law of popular protection that reward those who want to contribute to their labour force after the age of 67. The Committee has decided that both of these proposals should be implemented in the context of the 2002 State Budget. What is alarming in this matter is that the Workers' Party once again chooses to stand on the outside of a case involving pensioners. The working party refers to the pension commission and its work, thus trying to show that the Labour Party is also concerned about the issue. The representative Gravdahl said that only those over 67 years of age benefit from this scheme. She referred to the AFP scheme. Here it must be a misunderstanding going out and going. The AFP scheme is about the opposite of what this case is about. The AFP scheme is about an opportunity to go off earlier and step down, while this case is about those who want to continue working should be able to do so. So here I think the representative Gravdahl must have mixed the cards. The matter is therefore to reward those who want to continue after they have retired. With regard to the proposal for the Workers' Party, which refers to the Pensions Committee, I will finally only be allowed to use a perhaps a little bit rewritten quote: where the Workers' Party wants nothing to happen, they set down a committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e620	Let me first arrest an opinion from the representative of Gravdahl, who is the spokeswoman of the Workers' Party in this field. She said that other than the Workers' Party and SV – at least it had to be interpreted this way – never wanted to support the AFP scheme. It's completely wrong. Firstly, at least we from the Central Party have been involved in supporting it, and we have even contributed to the extension of the AFP scheme, which was originally within the so-called LO-NHO area, to larger groups – just as has been said. We would like to have a discussion about the AFP scheme, but that is not the case today. I believe that this proposal could lead primarily to a good senior policy and a good use of the labour reserve that we have in our country and that we need well. We must use the workforce that has both professional competence and, not least, real competence, and take advantage of it as long as the worker himself thinks it is right and proper. I believe that the workplaces and the younger colleagues have good use of senior workers both professionally and environmentally, not least in relation to what one might call real competence, and which is now and then absent. When we want to raise the limit of labour income without shortening the pension, it is in recognition of what I have said here, and I think it is gratifying that one today can see that there is a majority who will raise the limit of labour income from 1 G to 2 G. Obviously, we have some inequalities and inconsistency in our pension schemes, and the injustices that it tends to be due to inequalities and inconsistency and peculiarities, we're going to try to adjust. These include: therefore this pension commission is established, and I have to agree with those who say it takes time. It takes time just to set up a pension commission, because the central party suggested in the previous period that we should have such a pension commission on our feet to investigate a more equitable and more robust pension system. Unfortunately, we did not get any particular support and absolutely no majority for that at the time, but today it is a reality. Nevertheless, it must be possible to do some action before that pension commission concludes after long-term work, for example: Incentives they get here by making more money than the pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e629	SV is also in favour of the proposal that is being given a majority today. SV agrees with the Workers' Party in the case of a contractual pension. But the issue that is being dealt with today is not about the issues that contractual pension issues, because it is about the need for those who need a previous pension and want to work less, and there is a need that SV sees. We think the AFP as such is a very good arrangement, and that's why we want to maintain the flexibility of those groups. But we also want to ensure the flexibility of the old-age pensioners who want to work more, and what I see is that this matter is about, is more equal treatment of the old-age pensioners who are between 67 and 70, and those who are over 70. Sense if there's still a pretty big difference, you've come close to non-discrimination now. So the issue is about the many old-age pensioners who are talking and want to work more, and whether it makes sense that the frame is so tight before they get a curtailment in the pension. We think it is right to try what this proposal is all about. We see that there might be a reserve of labour here, and we see that there might be a positive way to stimulate more people to work a little bit more. So sail if we don't think that's where the very large reserves are, we think this is a positive way to encourage it. The Labour Party argues, as I see it, more to be against the proposal than to be for other more flexible arrangements for those who need flexibility in order to be able to work a little bit and get a little pension. And I hope that commitment soon comes to light in concrete proposals that make it easier. A year ago, I was the case rapporteur in connection with a report on rehabilitation, and in that case, it is about people who have been sick but who want to come back to work again, and as such, much encouragement and support and perhaps a little lift to get started again. In that case, the Workers' Party was also hard on and got a majority in order that those who went under this arrangement should even lose the small right they had to earn 1 G next to the reintroduction. It was removed. I think it kind of demonstrates that you're not quite able to see all of these things in the context and make a coherent reasoning that encourages those who want to try to take advantage of a residual work capacity, as it's called – it's not a word I like, but it's certainly what you say – or want to work a little more when they've gone out of retirement. So I want to encourage you to really go through the whole system now, so that you can find all the obstacles that lie there and seem depressing to them like that. have been out of work due to illness for a period of time and are in the process of being reinstated and wanting to test out their ability to work a little more. I also think we should remember that very many of those who have a pension are people who initially have less advice than others, and especially those who have different forms of disability pension, and those who are reintroducing. In that context, a krone also means a lot more – and it means a lot more if that krone is cut off in a benefit than if you can work a few hours and get to keep those crowns. It means a lot more for people who have a low income, and it can be an encouragement and not least an important contribution to keeping up the courage and believing that if you can just stand on a little bit more, you'll be able to get a little bit better in the future. So I just want to repeat what is SV's main argument here: we want a more equal treatment of age pensioners between 67 and 70 and those over 70. And we see this as a positive contribution to perhaps more people in that age group finding it useful to work more. That is why we are choosing to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e646	Occupational participation in older age groups has fallen significantly in the past few decades. This is related to increased disability pensions, but also to increased use of different early retirement schemes. At the same time, Norway is facing major challenges with increasing pension payments and increasing dependency burden in the future. Fresh older people, with their long professional experience, should be a significant resource in the workplace. We know that it's not like this at all. It is clear that a number of processes help to push older people out of work. It has been a good and solidarity policy to fight for ever better pension schemes. At the same time, such schemes also help to make it easier to become ‘white’ workers that you do not want for various reasons. We have gone from a time of unemployment to a time of a tight labour market. It has not been so long since it was almost considered as solidarity to withdraw to let go of younger forces. Today we look at this differently. We're not going to weaken the arrangements at all, but we're going to focus a lot more on what's helping to push people out, and we're going to look at what's going on to create a desire to do something longer. The Government therefore supports the work of the ‘Action Plan to Strengthen the Opportunities of Older People in the Labour Market’, which the Centres for Senior Policy now provide in cooperation with the social partners. In the current year, the government has made $5 million. kr for the preparation and implementation of the action plan. And we're also aiming to continue this allocation for a few years to come. The aim of the action plan is to stimulate a good working environment and a good human resources policy that can make it attractive to continue working, rather than early retirement. For enough for the elderly as well as for all other professional groups, it is not just the money that determines how long you are working and where you are working. Labour is the most important resource society has. The value of our human capital represents more than 13 times the value of our petroleum fortune. This means that if the current labour force is reduced by 7 pst. – e.g. by occupational exclusion, lower retirement age, increased sick leave or absence. – the future revenues of the country will be reduced by an amount equal to the entire petroleum product. I therefore fully agree with the Committee that it is important to stimulate increased work among the elderly. It is therefore appropriate to amend the rules on the combination of work and retirement between 67 and 70 years of age so that more people actually want to work. A change in legislation to reduce the shortening of old-age pensions towards income from work could lead to more people wanting to work. Such a change will also enable those who choose to combine work and social security with current rules or choose to work fully to experience an increase in income. In my view, it is also important to renew the attitudes towards old age and retirement. We can't have a life of work running out of older workers. Together with the social partners, the Government has put senior policy on the agenda. As the Committee is well aware, the pension system faces major challenges for an ageing population and progressive early retirement. The burden of living for the economically active will increase dramatically over the next 30 years. There have been a number of investigations in this area in recent years. Now we need a full review of the pension system with a view to broad political support, so that the system becomes robust over time. That is why the Government has set up a pension commission, which consists of representatives of the political parties. The newly appointed Commission shall clarify the main objectives and principles of an overall pension system based on the problems and challenges facing the current system. The mandate explicitly states that a future pension scheme must take account of long-term sustainability, stability and transparency. In order to meet the need for increased professional participation among the elderly, the rules on the combination of retirement and labour income will be a central element of this work. In my view, perhaps one should be reluctant to change the pension scheme as long as the pension commission is working, and perhaps especially on such a central part as this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e670	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e673	Albert Einstein must have said that the most difficult thing in the world to understand is the income tax. Such a statement can only be due to a lack of knowledge of Norwegian pension rules. We are and will be different, especially as we approach retirement age, in terms of health and labour and the desire to continue working. I saw the intervention of the Council of State as supporting incentives for increased labour input among the elderly, a labour force that we need, and it would be in line with the flexibility in relation to the relationship between work and social security that one strives for in other contexts as well. But then we see that the Council of State is pushing this forward in the newly appointed pension commission, which has not yet had its first meeting. I find it alarming that the Council of State suggests that one should not make any changes to the pension legislation during the Commission's term of office. In this context, the Council of State calls for a broad political majority. Yes, it could have been achieved in this matter by voting in favour of the majority's proposal, which has the support of all parties, except the Workers' Party. It could be a broad political majority – it is already, with the exception of the Workers' Party – and it is a concrete matter that needs action now. Why can't the Council of State support this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e684	I agree with the representative Næss that the complexity of the Norwegian pension system is excessive. There is a significant reason why we want a pension commission. Perhaps the main reason for the complexity we see today is the many minor changes that have been made to the system over time. That is why it is very important that politicians now sit together. This is not a sample to investigate, it is politicians who are supposed to sit together and be ready to agree on the broad lines of a simplified pension system. That is why I wanted this case to come to the pension commission as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e689	The Labour Party and the Workers' Party government don't stop amazementing me. A few days ago, there was a large press conference in which Per Kleppe presented the Elder Policy Programme for the Workers' Party, and as far as I can see, it will apply from 2001 to 2005. The proposal in the vote is for the 2002 budget, and is therefore for implementation in the next major period. Since the Government and the Council of State have not read the Workers' Party's earlier policy programme, I shall quote from it: ‘There should be greater opportunities to combine pensions and paid work. The rules restricting this possibility today should be amended. This applies, inter alia, to: the rules of disability which require a high degree of disability in order to allow for the combination of social security and employment, and the rules which severely limit the income which a social security aged between 67 and 70 may receive without reduction in social security.» There is precise verbal support for the majority in the vote in which only the Labour Party disagrees. Is it really so that the government has no scruples to go against its own adopted game program? Is it really the case that there are the other parties in the Stortinget Labour Party that have to trust in order to implement their own programme? Can the Council of State please explain to Stortinget and the Norwegian people how the Labour Party can vote on an older policy programme when the Labour Party Government and the Labour Party in the Stortinget vote against a proposal that is roughly word-right from their own programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e705	I can assure the representative Hagen that both the Minister of Social Affairs and the Government have read the party's programmes on which we go to elections from 2002 to 2005. The present proposal concerns the 2001 budget. Later addressed to 2002, cf. State Council posts on page 3385 As I said in my article, I agree with a lot of the proposal, but I want to see these arrangements in the context. And as it was also referred to from the program, both disability and retirement were mentioned. So it'll be very important for me, for example. to look at these in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e713	Firstly, can the Minister of Social Affairs repeat something about the mandate and intention of the Commission for the work of the pension scheme? It became a little inexorable to me, especially this, that they were not going to do anything, but that there were politicians who were now going to get together. Can she clarify it a little bit more? And then a little bit to what the Minister of Social Affairs said in his speech. I agree. We have had a period of unemployment which probably also greatly affects our employment and pension policies. But today's historylessness is striking, and I think it's part of the historylessness that we don't today appreciate and maintain enough the professional skills and experience of older professionals, and use it in a tight labour market today, both to exploit it and to give something to younger professionals. So the Minister of Social Affairs talked about exclusion mechanisms, that we're pushing older people out of work. So let's do that. And this includes, among other things: because we have not managed to get enough arrangements to combine work and social security. Then I'm in on our disability insurance scheme. Will the Minister of Social Affairs now ensure that the combination of residual working capacity and social security opportunities is facilitated? A distribution all the way down to 80/20 pst. in the ratio of pensions to work or work/pension, part of us is prescribed as acceptable distributions. Will the Minister of Social Affairs now ensure that there is much greater enforcement than what people experience, namely that there are very square rules for disability and the combination of work/social security?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e722	I'm going to repeat what I said about the main objectives of the pension commission. What I said was that it is “explicitly stated in the mandate that a future pension scheme must take account of long-term sustainability, stability and transparency”. Then it is important that we look at, among other things. the combination of retirement and work, whether in the case of disability benefits or in the case of old-age pensions. The other issue was disability benefit and combination with it. We know that this has been widely reviewed by the Sandman Committee, and we are working to be able to present it to the Storting during this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e729	The fact that the Council of State has obviously not been able to read its own programme for the next majority period does not concern me as a representative of the Progress Party – at least it is certain. But what worries me as a representative of another party was the answer I heard from the Council of State to the representative Hagen. In fact, I have to read from the proposal for a decision of the Council of State, so that she knows what it says here, because the Council of State pointed out that this was the case for 2001: ‘The government is asking for the government in connection with the 2002 government budget...’ – i.e. next year’s budget. And as far as I know, next year's government budget will be treated in the next majority period, because the election this year is September 10, and the new period will start in October this year. I expect that the state budget will not actually be adopted until after that time. Does the Council of State mean anything about what is in the Workers' Party's own programme for the next period, or does she just want to push this issue ahead of her, as you've become accustomed to? I really hope I get an answer to that, because it's very important. And then a question to: the state council refers to the pension commission. Well, it's got a certain working time, and then it's going to present a result. A notification or a proposition to the Size must then be drawn up, if appropriate. And the time is running out! Will it come early in the next ageing period, or will it come to the end of the next ageing period? It may be essential to know because for everything I know, we can risk that the work of that Commission is actually not finished until the Workers' Party is also finished with the next majorization period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e738	The representative of Nesvik is right about the year. It is 2002, the first year of the next major period, that is, included in the proposal for a decision. It just means that I've read the game program. What I've stressed in my other answers is that we need to see the pension scheme as a whole. Age pension and disability pension are both very important elements in how people are pushed out of work, and therefore I think it is essential that these are seen in context and not taken as individual elements.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e745	I also think that things should be seen in the context. But you have to start somewhere if you're going to do something. If you're just going to see things in context and just look and don't do, nothing happens. And I must once again draw the conclusion of the Council of State's posts that nothing will happen in the field of pensions during the Commission's term of office, as I know, of two and a half years! This applies, as I said, to the state budget for 2002, and I just have to admit that I do not understand the Council of State in this matter. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) programme for the next majority period has programmed what is contained in the majority's proposal for a decision on this matter. I think it is very positive to have this implemented now, and I have to ask the Council of State: what is the problem of having a programme statement implemented too early? Usually, the problem is that the promises we give are not being fulfilled or are being fulfilled too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e754	I have considerable confidence that a pension commission of parliamentarians will take the time necessary to carry out their work and do it in the shortest possible time. In one of my previous answers, I have said that one of the reasons why the Norwegian pension system has become as complicated as the representative Næss mentioned in his first post is that it has changed a bit, so that it is finally difficult to get an overview. Therefore, it is important for me that major changes in the pension system are just to be addressed by the pension commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e762	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e767	I have again seen in the Elder Policy Programme for the Workers' Party to see if there is anything to say about seeing things in the context, and whether reservations have been made, etc. There's nothing to say about this! It is clear that the Workers' Party wants changes, so that it becomes more beneficial for them between 67 and 70 years of age, who have a normal retirement pension, to have income from work, without having such a strong limitation as today. So the Labour Party and the State Council are talking about the Pension Commission. It's not going to look at this kind of little thing. It's going to see if you're going to go to a fund-based system of popular protection. These are the great things to be seen. You can't use it as an excuse. I think the matter is quite simple: the Workers' Party's big group and the Labour Party's government have forgotten what they have written in the Elder Policy Programme, when they do not immediately change their attitude when, as Are Næss said, they are clearly informed that what is in the proposal is exactly what is in the Workers' Party's earlier policy programme. I think at least it would be interesting if this could be lifted at a slightly higher level, if the Labour Party's parliamentary Vice-President could explain to the House whether it is the case that we have had a few examples of now that the programme formulations of the Workers' Party are not really going to be taken seriously. Is it the case that the programme of the Workers' Party is exclusively the coin of attracting votes in the elections, that what is in the programme is not really serious and that it is not really going to be implemented? You'll see that a little bit. This is about the credibility of the Workers' Party. So here's an example of an approximately word-to-word part of the Workers' Party's program that will be implemented because all the other parties are in favour of it. The Labour Party should be happy today: we are having our programme implemented, unanimously! But then, for some remarkable reason, the Workers' Party will vote against its own party program. Obviously, if we get more of these examples, it's going to go on credibility. I think it might be interesting if the Labour Party parliamentary Vice-President could say something about the principle of the programme. I have asked the question before. I have made proposals that have been worded after the Workers' Party's programme and that the Workers' Party has voted against, and I would like to know what the answer is. We are now going to claim that the Workers' Party programme is not really meant to be serious. You can't take it seriously, because in the Stortinget, the Labour Party is voting against its implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e776	I have to say this has been an interesting debate. The proposal was to reward those between 67 and 70 years of age who want to work, and the Workers' Party replied in its first post that it was unfair that the AFP pensioners who want to step down earlier, who have accepted a system of downsizing their workforce, could only earn NOK 4000. The beginning was that you did not want to look at this matter at all. Then, of course, it was the Council of State that either has not read its own program for the next majority period or is not at its program for the next majority period. What it bears in mind is that the Norwegian people at all cannot rely on what is in the Workers' Party's programme for the next majority period, because they will not necessarily be able to implement it during the next majority period. Then we have not received a response from the Council of State to the following: When can you expect a result from the pension commission? When does the Workers' Party intend to implement the scheme they say they want? None of these things have emerged in this debate. I think we'll have to get a clarification soon. Is the Workers' Party at its program? When will the Pension Commission be able to present a work which the Workers' Party can promote for the Storting and, hopefully, obtain a majority for before the ageing period after re-starting? I think we need to get some of these answers in place. I must say that I am very pleased that today's proposals of the Progress Party have a solid majority, but it is a little strange that the only one who is voting against here is the party that actually has this in its new programme. That's a little weird!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e787	I understand that we do not get an answer from the Workers' Party to the questions that have been asked here regarding programming and implementation. This may indicate that the Workers' Party has more than one set of programmes, including: a set of pensioners, presented at Per Kleppe. It's okay. That might be part of the campaign. But then I want to ask the question to the Labour Party in a different way: will the Labour Party in its political accounts when one comes to this matter, write: This has been implemented and adopted against the Labour Party's votes?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e792	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3391]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e806	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other lots 5 minutes each of the independent representatives 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e815	The representatives of Storting Odd Roger Enoksen and Morten Lund, through Dokument No. 8:72 proposed to implement measures to improve food safety and animal and public health in Norway’s trade agreements with other countries. In the nomination, the Centre Party proposes that the Government should take the initiative to renegotiate the EEA Agreement and the WTO Agreement. The reasons given by the proposers are that they believe food safety and animal and public health should be better cared for. Furthermore, the precautionary principle would be based on national measures for animal and public health and on the establishment of a legal mechanism within the EEA Agreement to deal promptly with complaints about protective measures and countermeasures. I assume that representatives from the minority in the Committee, consisting of the Centre Party, will elaborate their views on the matter. The Committee may not endorse the background description and proposals presented by the proposers. Reference is made to the letter of the Minister of Agriculture dated 9 May to the Committee. In a comprehensive and complementary response, the Minister for Agriculture addresses issues raised in Document No. The 8th proposal. I'll take some of them: Food security in the context of agricultural policy is addressed in the forthcoming proposal for the agricultural settlement of the year. Necessary national control measures resulting from the extended EEA Agreement are covered in the framework of transfers to relevant departments in the context of the annual budget proposals. There may be grounds for recalling that earlier this year Norway implemented more stringent safety measures than in the EEA territory in order to ensure Norwegian animal health in the context of the spread of foot-and-mouth disease in Europe. Norway has also introduced measures to combat comorbidity. The overall assessment of the EEA Agreement shall be submitted to the Storting during the current year. When the Government of Bondevik proposed to extend the EEA Agreement in the autumn of 1998, the same government made the following assumptions: 1st@item: inlistbox Sufficient resources are allocated to the effective implementation of the necessary control measures.2. The safeguard clause shall be applied actively if public or animal health is endangered.3. National measures shall be evaluated on an ongoing basis.4. By the end of 2001, the Government shall present to the Grand Duchy an overall assessment of the new legislation and the infectiveness situation, together with any amendments that may be necessary. The Stoltenberg government follows the assumptions of the previous government. The evaluation will assess legislation, control measures, the use of the safeguard clause, national measures and other matters of importance. Thus, the size will be given the opportunity to decide whether today’s arrangements are satisfactory, when the Government returns to the Storting with results and conclusions to the harvest. The Committee therefore does not endorse the proposals contained in Document No. 8:72.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e859	The food scandals that have been in Europe in the last year have changed the discussion about food. The Christian People's Party refers to the comments we had in the Inner East. S. 224 for 2000-2001 and will stress that it must be primarily the State with full financial responsibility for the consequences of trade in live animals. I also point out that by the end of 2001, the Government will provide the Stortinget with an overall assessment of the EEA Agreement, assuming that this will allow an assessment of current arrangements. Then we also show that the government of Bondevik at the presentation of St. Prp. No 6 for 1998-1999 underlined the active use of the safeguard clause in the event of a risk to public and animal health and considered this essential to ensure food safety and animal and public health. To a large extent, we fully agree with the content of the proposal of the Central Party. But if you look at such a proposal in a more practical way, we know that there are also strong forces among the majority in this Chamber and in the Norwegian community that will use such an opening of negotiations around the WTO and the EEA for completely different things. They will be used for more liberalisation, i.e. take less account of food safety, health and the environment. Food security, food security and food such as culture and identity creation are important for many cultures and nations. Every nation's defence strategy also includes food security. Food is power. Food is not any commodity. Food is fundamental, like water. The hardest currency in the world is grain, and the day there will be a shortage of grain in the rich world, the world economy will actually be able to change. The future food security problem will have an increased political interest in the nations. All signs indicate that. I then assume that the nations have a democratic governance and media that addresses important issues. Lack of water and war on water are, in fact, the big constraint on food production internationally, compared to the fact that we are able to increase food production as the world's population grows. An international and national trade policy that does not distinguish food production and the placing on the market of food from other trades will over time lead to a weakening of food security – slowly but surely – not only for each nation but for the whole world community. As I said, we support the intention of the proposal, but we also see that the majority in this Chamber will be able to use it to develop both the WTO Agreement and the EEA Agreement in a much more liberal direction. That is why we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e878	Inner. S. No 264 available on the basis of a Document No. Eight proposals by Odd Roger Enoxsen and Morten Lund of the Central Party, which through this proposal have now distanced themselves from what they were included in under the Government of Bondevik in connection with St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, that we should continue to have structural developments. Now they write that it is illogical and that it is even risky to continue an agricultural policy that can lead to larger units of primary production. It's been a little – if I may say so – spring break for Document No. Eight proposals. It must be seen in the light of the fact that there are elections soon, and in that way have a certain understanding of. But the other parties in the committee have chosen to make a position where we do not agree to this proposal. The representative Karlstrøm said that food is power. You shouldn't have read much in newspapers in the last few days to see the game of power in the food industry. The majority of the population has introduced a halving of the food tax this summer, and the Council of State intends to follow it up on becoming a price policy to check that these effects are being obtained. The Council of State has been an exponent of increased competition in the daily food market since he joined, and in the past while he was on the business committee. He has been an exponent of competition in all product areas of the food industry, including agricultural products. The undersigned has been a safe ally in trying to blow up one monopoly after another, and after I saw that the representative Opseth was now elected to the Synnove Find board, I guess the milk monopoly too is facing an uncertain future. It's so happy. However, I saw in Dagbladet Tuesday that the State Council Hanssen has received strong professional advice about being the review figure in that film newspaper – or what it is – that is to be made and run for five-six weeks before the roll-out. I do not ask questions about the commitment of the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture to check whether the effect of the 6.5 billion in the lower food tax is being taken out to consumers – of course there is one thing that will definitely be done – but I was somewhat surprised when I saw that the Minister of Agriculture himself was to be the review figure in this advertising campaign. I stand here with a part of the correspondence that has been between the extended arm of the Ministry of Agriculture – this advertising agency – and the food chains, and I see that the happy message from the Minister of Agriculture is mentioned in this letter. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Council of State whether he has re-assessed his own participation – I understand that he has an assessment of whether he is going to participate or not – and whether the Storting might be able to get it informed today. It would make it easier for Stortinget if we could be absolutely sure that we avoid getting an extra case before Stortinget splits up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e893	The President finds reason to recall what this matter is about, but leaves it to the Council of State if he will respond to that challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e896	If the President permits, I'll be allowed to stick to the case. We need a completely different trade regime for food and livestock than for nails and PCs. The Central Party believes that there is a need for transparency in trade matters. This private proposal was promoted because many cases have revealed in a short time that Norway is alleged to be forced to give priority to trade rather than health considerations, i.e. the opposite. However, I do not ignore the fact that those who claim that we are in a situation of coercion no matter what we do know better, but that they want to greatly reduce our freedom of action so that the European Union cannot point out that the Norwegian people have the advantage referred to by the Government when the EEA Agreement was adopted in 1993, among other things. that our health authorities can decide that: that we must not allow the increased use of carcinogenic additives in food that we must not import live animals or animal products from countries with dangerous contamination that we do not have The centre party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has claimed that the EEA Agreement's right of reservation gives us full opportunity to do so. We have heard representatives from other parties say that this is the case on paper, but that they fear long-term and costly sanctions from the EU if we use the reservation law contained in the EEA Agreement, or the safeguard clause applicable to EU rules in general. If necessary, I will quote the assurances given by several governments about our right to protect us against health risks. I think it has been difficult to testify that our animal health authorities have been called on the carpet in Brussels for our import ban as foot-and-mouth disease was closest to us, that the Council of State had to wait more and more with answers and measures until he knew what the neighbouring countries were doing, that we introduced meaningless copies of the crisis-England measures, while carrying out actions with good professional justification on the one hand were rejected, and on the other after friendly advice from Brussels. Intensive debate on food security in relation to agricultural policy in the countries around us has been triggered by gypsies and foot-and-mouth disease. There is no doubt that policy needs to be reformed within the EU — not towards more industrialised agriculture, increased animal transport or less animal health, public health and the environment. There will be less pre-driving rights for the free trade in food. There will be a greater difference between the trade in nails and the trade in food and live animals. That's what the Center Party wants to do here in Norway as well. So the rest of the committee refers to an evaluation of the EEA Agreement that was decided in 1998 – long before the last food and animal scandals, as if nothing had happened! I am very surprised and disappointed that the committee does not want to say one word about the new challenges. Then we read in the letters of the Council of State to the Committee on the Intensive Activity in the EU in order to strengthen the police. 84 projects are under way and Norway is actively participating in them. I do not ignore the fact that any of the projects are about what the proposal of the Central Party concerns. According to today's presentation of the WTO negotiations, there are also discussions on new trade rules. Norway shall participate. The centre party believes it is obvious that the relationship between commercial and health considerations will be discussed by our trading partners. Why should we not be able to take the initiative? At least there is nothing to stop us from taking such initiatives. Asking for changes after the others have made their decision is just stupid. The center party wants the Storting to care. In the debates on possible economic countermeasures from trading partners in relation to Norwegian safeguard measures, the lengthy and inexperienced procedure has been used to justify that we should not take any chances. It has been pointed out by legal expertise that the EEA Agreement is missing a Board of Appeal which can quickly enter into force before action is taken. Such a deficiency will lead to fear of the strongest right that causes countries such as Norway to be in a long-term state of conflict. Without such an instance, mechanisms within the WTO are likely to need to be interconnected. For long-term and costly processes for the vast majority of purposes, this results. We have learned that safe health advice must be set aside from the fear of commercial boycott. Then, of course, the var-principle stands for even weaker. The centre party believes that we and other countries must have the right to implement measures to avoid a danger that has not yet been proven, both in terms of public health, animal health and the environment. When the precautionary principle is to be applied, the experts in life are allowed to speak with the greatest weight, not the economic experts. Finally, it took six weeks for the Council of State to respond to the Committee’s request for a comment on this proposal. I see this as an attempt at training to avoid an important debate in Stortinget. I will put forward the proposal in the vote, and will be allowed to stress that we do not want a round of negotiations to extend our trade obligations and agreements, but to improve the agreements we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e946	Morten Lund has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e949	SV shares the Central Party's concern about the animal health and environmental situation and the trade agreements. We have had a debate before today on the WTO, and there were two parties that clearly opposed a broad new round of negotiations in the WTO and rather wanted a memorandum to go in and look at the effects of the agreement before new areas were introduced. International agreements are necessary, but it is important to have them implemented now that trade does not take precedence over health and the environment in areas by region. Measures are needed to improve food safety, animal and public health in all areas of such agreements. That is why we support the proposal put forward by the Central Party today. But what I think would be most interesting in this debate is whether we could get an answer from the Council of State on what kind of opportunities he sees within the agency we have today, to improve the situation beyond what it is today, and what kind of positions it is the Government wants to take. In the debate before today on the WTO, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Igland spoke a lot about this. But when it comes to concreteization, it kind of becomes very vague. There is talk of the need for mechanisms to take into account considerations other than the reasons for free flow in any context. But what kind of positions you have, what kind of consistency it is in the content of such statements, is hard to get hold of. I could imagine that the minister could explain a little bit about these two things: 1st@item: inlistbox What kind of opportunities does he see in the contract work as it is today, that we can better safeguard the interests of the proposers here to take care of? There I see that both the Minister and the proposers and we at least agree in word.2. Does the Minister also see that there is reason to maintain the precautionary principle in a better way? It is a very important principle in these contexts, especially because we have seen in the context of the animal health and infectiveness situation, that when it is too late, it is too late. The situation that Norway is free of some animal diseases is good. Norway has a special status because we are free of infection. But at the moment the infection comes in, there's not much you can do. It's very different with this than it is with e.g. substances used in industry. There are substances which may be very dangerous and which may somehow slip in, but which are completely prohibitive and removable. And many of them are at least easier to get out and get away from than an infectious agent that has first come in, which is hard to remove completely again. Then I also think it would have been interesting if the Council of State could explain whether it is such from the Government's point of view that the legal mechanisms that are now in order to get prompt complaint handling are sufficient, and whether they are appropriate to take care of the considerations pointed out in the proposal. That they may be appropriate in relation to a desire that these considerations should not be more serious than today, may well be so far, but my question is: are the mechanisms today appropriate if we want better protection of animal and public health, or if we want the precautionary principle to have priority and greater weight in relation to the international agreements of which Norway is part? SV will support the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e969	The questions that Morten Lund and Karin Andersen raise here, I think are important and central, and I think it is important to have thorough debates on that kind of question in this room. The question is on what kind of basis the debates are to be conducted. I believe that the evaluation of all the aspects of the EEA Agreement, which we are given to the ministry already this month, and which we are going to present to the Stortinge later this year, will be a very good basis for such an assessment. After all, there is an investigation by experts from countries other than Norway, just to get a kind of independent, critical, not pre-determined view of the impact of the EEA Agreement in this area. With regard to the WTO, I would like to say that I believe that the Government has been quite specific about what kind of action is needed in order to take care of important areas of Norwegian animal welfare policy through the position we have now delivered in the WTO. I would also like to say that the criticism that the representative Morten Lund is promoting in relation to how long it has taken to get answers from the department, in my opinion, is justified, and I take that with me. Then the representative Gabrielsen has asked me a specific question, which in itself does not affect the matter, but which I feel the need to answer when the question has been raised. It concerns this information campaign on VAT reform. I would like to remind you that the purpose of the information campaign is to provide information on parts of the VAT reform adopted by the Stortinget on 1 July this year. The size has, as you know, adopted a reform where something is more expensive, but where food is cheaper. At the same time, most people are very aware that if we're going to get the full effect of a reduced food tax, we need conscious consumers, who are then aware of what's going to happen. The Ministry of Agriculture then cooperates with the advertising agency Dinamo in order to implement this campaign. They have recommended a campaign with TV and radio advertising and posters in stores. They have also recommended, on a professional basis, that the Minister of Agriculture should be a review figure in the communication of the message, in order to have the greatest impact of the campaign, as they say. But at the same time, Dinamo has stressed that the campaign of course does not depend on that happening. I have, as the representative Gabrielsen was concerned with his question, had this in mind. Gradually, I have found it quite easy to conclude: the point of the campaign must be that the message should be focused, so that we should inform and make consumers aware of the impact of reduced food tax. The aim of the campaign must be to give more information to consumers about what is going to happen and, hopefully, more conscious consumers. A major debate on my participation in this campaign will remove that focus. It is therefore not in the interest of the case, and therefore not in the interest of me or the Government. Now, all the focus – and I think I'll show you that I'm busy – is on reducing consumer prices. I have therefore completed my assessment, which Gabrielsen asked for, and will inform Dinamo that it cannot be put up for use by me as a messenger of the message. I also hope that we can put that debate to death, and that everyone in this room, regardless of whether you voted in favour of or against the VAT reform, can join me and the Government in their work to give about 10 pst. lower food prices from 1 July of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e979	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e982	As rapporteur of the matter, I have registered that the representative Gabrielsen addresses a topic that is not relevant to this matter, and that the Council of State follows it up and answers it. In that case, I too, as the rapporteur-in-Office, would like to raise this issue – then it must also be legitimate for others to follow such a practice. This has been very central in the debate over the last few days – the lucky or unfortunate thing about an agricultural minister using his own person in a campaign. But I am very pleased that the Council of State takes the signals from the political environment and now will clearly separate the Labour Party election campaign from this campaign for lower food prices. I fully agree with the Minister of Agriculture that the intention of the campaign is very good. We should have sharp competition in the food market and ensure that the 6,5 billion DKK of tax relief that this actually entails will benefit consumers. It would be a failure if the different points in the food chain were to take this through increased margins. Then there would be a tax relief for these terms and not for Kari and Ola North. So I'm very pleased that the Council of State has now taken the signals from the Storting and withdraws from an active participation in the campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e987	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3391]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e995	Then we should be ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e1002	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on WTO issues be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e1009	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by the representative of the Grand Duchy of Annelise Höegh, on behalf of the Right, the Central Party and the Socialist Left, transmitted by the meeting of the Odel Stingen on 8 May 2001: ‘The ruling asks the Government to consider submitting a proposal for active consent by autopsy and how such consent can be obtained, e.g. through the fixed medical device.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e1026	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 8 May 2001: ‘The ruling asks the Government to draw up autopsy regulations requiring prior authorisation from the dependants when autopsy is not legally sought.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e1151	During the debate, Mr Gravdahl put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the pension commission assesses schemes that reward those who work a little longer than is usual today as soon as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e1173	During the debate, Mr Lund has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to take the initiative to renegotiate the EEA Agreement and the WTO in such a way that: food safety and animal and public health are better protected and the precautionary principle can be applied by national measures to protect the environment and animal and public health. a legal mechanism is established within the EEA Agreement to deal promptly with complaints about safeguard measures and countermeasures against them.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e1194	The President will stress that the Socialist Left has signalled support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01.ana.ud193e1210	There is no record. The President would like everyone to have a really good Pentecost and a reminder that we are starting the Stortinges meeting at 4 p.m. 10 on Tuesday, and hopes that all the meetings will rest and be ready to take hold of the last two weeks of the session.
