ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e81	Representatives Frank Willy Larsen, Steinar Bastesen, Øystein Djupedal and Tom Thoresen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. A number of permit applications are available: from the delegation of the Grand Duchy to NATO Parliamentary Parliamentary Assembly of Spring in Vilnius, signed by Mr Jan Petersen, on behalf of the representatives of Mr Ranveig Frøiland, Mr Hans J. Røsjorde and Mr Gunnar Schaug from 28 May to 30 May, from 28 May to 31 May, from the representatives of Mr John Dale, from 28 May to 31 May, and from 28 May to 1 June, from the representatives of Mr Gunnar Halvorsen and Mr Jon Lilletun, from the representatives of Mr Grethe G. Fossum and Mr Myrli, from 28 May to 31 May, from the representatives of Mr Lisbet Ruggvedt, Anne Helen Rui and Per Ove Width respectively, and from 28 May to 31 May, from the representatives of Mr Gunnar Halvorsen and Mr Jon Lilletun, from 31 May to 31 May, from 31 May to 31 May, and Mr Myrli, from 28 May, from 28 May to 31 May, and from 1 June to June, from 1 May to June, and from 1 May to 31 May, from the Parliamentary, and from 1 May, from 1 May to 31 May to 31 May to 31 May, from the Parliamentary, and from 1 May, and from 1 May to the plenary, from 1 May to the plenary, and from 1 June, from 1 May to the Parliament, and from 1 June to the Parliament, and from 1s, from 1 to the Parliament, from 1s, and from 1s, from 1 to the Parliament, and from 1 June to the Parliamentary, and from 1 to the Parliamentary, from 1 June to the European Parliament, from 1 to the European Parliament, from 1 to the European Parliamentary, from 1 June to the European Parliamentary, and from 1s, from 1 May to the European Parliament, and from 1 May to 31, and from 1 May to the European Parliamentary, from 1 May to 31, from 1 May to the European Parliamentary, and from 1 May to the Council, and from 1 May to 31, from 1 May to the Council, from 1 May to the Council, from 1 May to the European Parliamentary, from 1 May to the European Parliament, from 1 May to the Council, from 1 May to the Council, from 1 May to 31, from 1 May to 31, and from 1 to 31, from These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Hordaland County, Bjørg Hope Galtung, is currently abroad and for that reason prevented from meeting in the Stortinge under the representative John Dale's leave from 28 May to 1 June. From the first alternates for Hordaland and Vestfold counties respectively, Terje Søviknes, Trond Mathisen and Jan Th. Langaard, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under representatives Hans J. Røsjorde, Anne Helen Rui and Per Ove Width's leave, respectively, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For East-Agder counties: May Britt Lunde For West-Agder counties: Dagrun Eriksen For Akershus County: Åge Tovan and Anita Orlund For Hedmark County: Nils Amund Røhne For Hordaland County: Kari Manger, Inger-Marie Ytterhorn, Magnar Lussand and Magnus Skåden For Oslo: Heikki HolmåsFor Nord-Trondelag County: Marit ArnstadFor Westfold County: Trine Gjersøe and Anders Anundsen For Østfold County: Morten Olsen3. Inger-Marie Ytterhorn, Magnar Lussand, Heikki Holmås, Trine Gjersøe and Anders Anundsen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives Hans J. Røsjorde, John Dale, Lisbet Rugtvedt, Anne Helen Rui and Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e235	May Britt Lunde, Dagrun Eriksen, Åge Tovan, Nils Amund Røhne, Kari Manger, Inger-Marie Ytterhorn, Magnar Lussand, Magnus Skåden, Trine Gjersøe, Anders Anundsen and Morten Olsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e247	( Document No. 8:54 takes up suggestions for the allocation of and proposals for new balance-depreciation rates. [[(speaker of the case):]] The depreciation policy is a central part of our tax system. They have an impact on investment in business and have a lot to say about the excess of business. The Stortinget now manages, determines that there is a wide political deal about the principles to be used when setting the rates for depreciation. The following shall be used as a guiding principle: Depreciation rates shall reflect real economic impairment on operating assets — I really underline. If it is to be real, it is also necessary to provide evidence of the economic lifetime of the means of operation. I see it as positive for business that the Ministry of Finance has announced a broad review of the economic value loss on different means of operation with a view to adjusting the individual rates, and that this is done in connection with the announcement of changes in the tax system to be submitted in the fall. It is a joint committee that takes note of it and at the same time underlines the need to assess a comparison of the corresponding depreciation rates in other countries. This is what I see as very central to the competitive situation of our business. I find it important to stress that Norwegian business must also have fiscal conditions that are almost on the line with the countries with which we compete. It is also important to take account of technological developments in assessing the economic lifetime of operational assets. These two areas – the competitive situation and technological developments – I would ask the Minister of Finance to pay particular attention. I am aware that in different countries there are different types of depreciation schemes, but a comparison must be possible. As we have a whole political deal here – yes, as far as I can see – all parties are represented on the Stortinget behind the main principle – and that this should get a thorough handling to the autumn in connection with the alert reform of the tax system, it should be possible to join the recommendation, as I suggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e264	I allow myself to comment on the proposal referred to in the vote, on behalf of the Right and the Advance Party. This Document No The 8 was the goal of achieving two things. One was to get the Storting to draw up certain guidelines for setting depreciation rates. The second was to have the decision of the budgetary conciliation last autumn, where the depreciation rates were changed without any factual justification at all in reality, much less in the principles now drawn up. Had the principles now drawn up had been followed in the examination of the budget last year, the decision had not been taken. We do not reach a majority to convert it, but I am pleased with the rapporteur's work on drawing up guidelines for this in the future. My hope is that the guidelines then, after this landfill treatment, are stronger than the same guidelines were in place at the Plaza Hotel last autumn. I have a certain hope of that. With that reason, I am partly satisfied with the treatment, but not entirely with the result. Just let me remind you that depreciation rates may not be exactly a popular term for everyone, except for a part that deals with accounting. But in the size of the enterprises concerned, this is about amounts that are comparable to half of what is paid in the country in taxes on wealth, or it is about amounts that are equivalent to the amount that we had set the capital tax rate up from 28 p.m. to a location between 30 and 31 pst. In other words, it's not petty about what the Storting is otherwise very worried about as part of the total food tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e273	The representative Foss has put forward the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e276	Like the representative Foss, the Progress Party is also pleased that a broad majority is gathered to establish guidelines on stability linked to the rules on the write-off of the balance sheet. However, my concern is that we have seen enough times that fine party speeches and words and expressions about stable guidelines do not last so long when you sit late at night and have to balance budgets. Therefore, it was strange to hear the rapporteur's description of the need for stable framework conditions, so that we could strengthen the competitive situation for business, and that it was not least important to consider the kind of systems in other countries. In fact, together with other representatives from the central parties and the Workers' Party, the case-rapporteur was the ones who helped to change the depreciation rules in the first round. So this was a system that worked. And it is not least that the changes made in the state budget for the current year became retrospective, which is at least not to be said to be predictability and stability of a business life that must at least expect the rules laid down by this room to have no retroactive effect, but above all to apply from a certain period in the future. It's changing the rules in a very inconvenient way, which I hope we won't see any more in the future, especially because the tax system has to be credible. Otherwise, politics loses face over time. I would like the minority proposal to have a slightly wider connection than it actually has, but I record that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e285	I agree mainly with what the rapporteur has said, but I would just like to make one comment on this matter, because it is difficult to see this matter completely isolated from a matter we will later deal with in Odelstinget, which goes on depreciation rates for agriculture. Thus, after pressure from the conciliators, the Ministry has entered and changed the depreciation rate for agriculture from 2 to 4 p.p., to make up for what happened at Hotel Plaza a late night. And what I kind of think is the learning money of this, is that you can't make this kind of big changes in a depreciation system without having thought carefully enough through it. The result of this budgetary agreement between the Centre and the Workers' Party was changes in the depreciation rates. Then it is discovered that this affects agriculture particularly strongly, and goes back and changes one, but not the other. This means that I am in favour of what the rapporteur has explained, but it is probably a lesson for the conciliators that this way of dealing with the tax system is essentially a bold exercise when you have not thought enough about it in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e292	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3236]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e306	Document No 8:60 for 2000-2001 sets out two proposals. The first one deals with an increasingly focused theme, such as: the emergence of Attac has contributed to the issue of a charge on currency transactions. It is proposed that the Storting should ask the Government to submit a plan for Norway to work internationally to introduce a levy on foreign exchange transactions. The second proposal is that the Storting should ask the Government to submit an annual report to the Stortinget on the operations of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, and Norway's vote and effort in them. The issue of the possible governance and stabilisation of the international currency market is an important issue – a theme that has also been debated here in the Chamber in the past, among others. in the light of an interpellation on 1 March of this year. We have had a huge increase in the internationalization of the economy and trade, both at good and at bad. The good thing is to increase trade, more cohesive countries and continents between themselves and more openness in itself can contribute to democratic development in parts of the world that so absolutely need it. But there are also some negative consequences here. We experience currency speculations in several degrees, from short-term currency trading, where it is daily speculated in small changes in relative rates, to what one calls some kind of 'driving' of a currency, where it is speculated in major changes in a country's currency. We have seen that financial and monetary crises have seen economic developments in many countries for several years. Therefore, work on establishing a system to prevent international financial crises becomes important. And I found it positive that there is now growing an international movement that focuses on these challenges. A global charge on speculative currency transactions, if properly designed, can help to promote stability in the currency market while being a major and important source of funding for the United Nations and to address the poverty challenge in the world. But to get such a currency charge with the intended effect, there are many provisions that need to be put in place. Here's a lot of challenges. Among other things, there must be a strong international commitment to the imposition of such a charge. To be realistic, actors such as the United States and the EU must support this. In this case, such a charge must be imposed in all countries to a certain extent, including in non-OECD countries. A co-conspirator's committee also says in the setting that it is not appropriate for Norway to impose such a fee on a one-sided basis. Another challenge is to avoid a significant framework for trade between countries and long-term investment. A small tax on e.g. 0.1 pst., which is mentioned in the debate on this issue, will probably affect short-term currency trading, where there is day-to-day speculation about small price changes, without affecting trade in goods and services. But it'll probably be inadequate to prevent speculation and ‘driving’ of a currency where it's speculated in major changes. The problem is that a greater charge could quickly affect cross-border trade and long-term investment. These are a few examples of how we need an explanation of how we should be involved in better management of international market forces. It has been initiated by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and the Committee shows in the setting that this should be discussed in a separate announcement that the Government intends to present before the end of next year. The majority of the Committee also asks the Government to look at non-currency instruments to protect developing countries, as they are particularly affected by currency speculation. When it comes to the issue of an annual report on the operation of the IMF and the World Bank, the majority of the committees refer to the treatment of St.prp. No 56 for 1997-98, where a co-consolidated financial committee concluded that the arrangements for providing an IMF’s own forecasting message were terminated every two years. The Committee majority suggests that the Government continues to provide information on IMF cases in an appropriate way, including voting and Norwegian views on important issues. The option from the multiples is therefore that Document No. 8:60 shall be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e323	Cross-border capital transactions are the result of trade between countries. To sell a good in a country, there is a need for a currency transaction so that the seller can use that income in his own country. It is well documented that international trade is an important cause of wealth growth throughout the industrialized world. Any attempt to limit this trade has a cost that is, in fact, a matter of reduced welfare. In today's situation, it is quite clear that the best thing to do is to involve developing countries in international trade. It may be the most important measure to bring these countries out of poverty. It is well supported that free trade is giving rise to economic growth. Since free trade will be one of the most important for developing countries in order to get out of poverty and ensure a better standard of living for their population, it is surprising that a party such as SV is at the forefront of both a levy on currency transactions and not least an attempt to limit free trade. I would very much like to know what kind of recipe SV has for the developing countries to be invited into the good company, i.e. into the trade of the industrialized countries, so that at some point they can stand on their own feet, be self-held and have an economy that goes around, and on their own basis can help secure the well-being of their own inhabitants for the future. I have not understood that SV has any clear answers to this, but instead you are at full speed to charge a fee on a market that works very well in all respects. At my discretion, it would be wrong to use resources if Norway were to work internationally to investigate the possible introduction of a levy on currency transactions. It is reasonably clear that such a charge must be global in its entirety if the effect is to be what it might be, and there is no sign that such a proposal will have international support. So this is no new case from SV's side, but I am still happy that the bulk of the population is reasonably grouped together in the view of such a fee. I would again challenge the SV to describe how they believe that the developing countries will come out of their poverty trap otherwise than through free trade, because it is obviously SV's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e332	This case focuses on something that the Christian People's Party is very concerned about, namely international solidarity and a global fight against poverty. At the same time, it is important that the means we use to achieve these objectives should be both nuanced and holistic, and that they should have international support, while being able to implement them in practice. Currency speculations lead to a huge flow of money daily across continents. Sometimes this can be characterized as egoism seen in the system. Globalisation and market liberalism combined with rapid technology development make the differences between poor and rich clear. The challenges are clear, but the solutions can therefore be quite lacking. There is therefore a need to address the implications of globalisation, market liberalism and an open economy. In that case, the Tobin levy is likely to stabilise and limit the amount of short-term capital movements and placements. However, if such a charge is to have any effect, it must be imposed on a global basis. At the same time, quite a number of practical challenges are raised, such as how to channel this fee to those who need it, etc. Therefore, from the Christian People's Party's side, we have gone in to attach this document to the protocol. On the basis of this, we have noticed that the Government intends to discuss precisely the possibilities for better management of international market forces in its own paper. Here we assume that the Government of the United Kingdom will also do its best for the international work being done and will be further developed to limit currency speculation. In this, we take it of course that the discussion of the issue of an international currency charge is taken into account. When there is then an annual report on the operation of the IMF, etc., I would just like to refer to the case-speaker's statement and his statement of reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e343	From the point of view of the SV, we have found it necessary to promote this proposal even though it has also been promoted in the past, simply because, increasingly, in a broad political environment, it is committed to finding governance that will make it more possible to create its own future and not allow the market to create the future. What has happened over the past two decades, after what can be called the neoliberal revolution, is that deregulation of the market, deregulation of state control, deregulation of various forms of concession law have enabled a whole new growth industry to grow. This growth industry is not traditional trade. This growth industry is not a traditional investment. This growth industry is short-term currency transactions to raise profits, by having a large amount of money moving in a short time, and thus creating large assets. This leads not least to major stability problems. So that means that currency transactions are the largest growth industry in the world. This creates significant management problems, including for us. It is not just the developing countries that are losing weight on this. The big industrialized countries are also losing weight. Norway itself has been the victim of this, in 1992 and 1993, when large currency movements led to a sky-high level of interest rates. They even resulted in even the British pound being squeezed out of the EMS, the European Monetary Cooperation, which caused a few people to have a lot of crazy profits. This is the background for SV's exposure. So the question is, how do we find these governance steps? There are probably many different interpretations of this, but the most concrete proposal so far is the so-called Tobin tax, i.e. this charge on currency transactions that are not intended to hit the long-term investments but are intended to hit the short-term transaction gains. It's not hard to see that there's a lot of arguments against this. To the extent that a nation is in a free fall and the currency is on its way to the bottom, it is clear that such a charge will have no effect at all. But the idea is to have control and stabilisation measures that make it possible to have control of the currency of your own country to a greater extent. That is why this Tobin tax has been discussed internationally in broad forums, but also among many politicians from different political points of view. In Norway even conservative politicians are behind this charge. It shows that more than just SV and our environments are concerned about this. We have wanted a plan to be drawn up to enable Norway to work internationally for this. A pulpit we now have, which we do not have in a few years' time, is in the Security Council. We want Norway also to go ahead in the Security Council to show that this is possible. Norway is not alone in this way. Canada is one example, Mexico another, of other countries that are also concerned with this kind of issue. Because it is quite obvious, as has been said by several, that such a charge will not take effect unless the large currencies are involved. The point is at least that you have to try to find new governance, because otherwise it means that the future is almost a kind of market liberalist highway, where politicians and individuals should have no influence at all. This kind of defaitism is SV strongly opposed. That is why we have promoted this proposal. It is unfortunately a minority proposal, but I would still like to say that the majority is going in the right direction in their comments, because the majority wants a plan to be made. The majority also say that you should come back with a big message during the next year. These are some careful steps, which we welcome. SV has also made a proposal that we should have more debate about the major international organisations, such as the IMF and the World Bank. The reason for this is that these are not discussed in national parliaments at all today. I think that would make sense. There are many reasons why the Stortinget should be notified annually about their activities — for two reasons in particular. The first is that it will be mainly the governors who meet in these bodies. These are increasingly disconnected from the political environment, by the independence of central banks around the world. We have got a step in that direction also in Norway. The second reason is that the advice given by these institutions is essentially the same. This means that no matter which nations to give advice, the advice is more or less: Selling away from state property, making the most of the capital market free, this will do well. All experience shows that the advice given by the IMF and to some extent by the World Bank has been incorrect. These are then also widely criticised by everything from the Financial Times to other economists who simply believe that the IMF and the World Bank need to review their own role, because the world has become more complex, and it is not without a doubt stated that selling away from state property and privatising business is what provides the basis for growth. Here I come to what was Mrs Jensen's question to me: How does SV see that the developing countries should have a certain opportunity in this? If we look at our own nation's role, we'll see that it's been successful essentially, by two different features. One is that we have had wise political decisions, in fact, by introducing at the beginning of our century different forms of concession law, while allowing international capital to enter. This means that Norway had the possibility of picking on the top shelf, because we had French and English people pay for the expansion of our hydropower plants, while at the same time introducing strict concession laws. We did the same thing when we expanded the North Sea. This is also an opportunity for developing countries to decide themselves at what level and to what extent they want to participate in international trade. For it will in practice be completely impossible for the poorest countries to get some kind of development if one does not have the possibility of national legislation itself, where one decides to what extent international capital should dominate the country. This has also contributed to the sinking of developing countries into deeper poverty, which means that the division of classes or the division of the world between rich and poor countries has, unfortunately, increased. We want these countries to have the opportunity to promote their own way, and we also believe that a greater degree of international debate on these issues will in itself be positive. Of course, none of the proposals we are making today will bring the developing countries into first division – that would have been very desirable. Nor do we oppose free trade in the sense that trade brings growth. It is still the case that those who are outside the commercial caravans are unfortunately falling back, while those who are participating in the international trade in goods are coming forward. So we have nothing against free trade and nothing against international trade. What we have against is a future that is to be governed solely by the principles of market liberalism. We don't think humanity is worthy of this. We have come a little way with the proposals we are making today – I am addressing the proposals that have been referred to in the vote. But this will be a debate that will, for many, many years to come, mark the international change of words in Western countries, as they do in developing countries. That means that with some steps today we will take even more steps tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e371	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e374	Whether the exact debate on Tobin tax marks the international shift of words on economics and politics, I am more in doubt. I think that in that case is based on a very narrow point of view. At least it is clear that, Mr President. Tobin himself, that is, Professor and former Nobel Prize winner James Tobin, feels a lot of discomfort by being attached to this treasure. He says, as we also refer to in the setting, that he does not want his name to be used and associated with the tax or with Attac's program. Internationally, there has been — but some time ago — a technical debate on whether a charge on foreign exchange trading would be stabilising or destabilising. The points of view are opposite. I record that the proposers do not want an investigation, but want to launch without prior professional investigation. I think that's the safest thing to do, because if not, the counter-representations will be overwhelming. Both the case rapporteur and the Christian People's Party spokesperson used terms here to indicate that different currency transactions could be distinguished. It used expression like the selfish transactions, or the speculative currency transactions. I would like to challenge the majority to make such a definition: what are speculative transactions, and when do you know that? You talk about short-term currency transactions as if it were bad, while long-term transactions should be good. You don't know that until a while has passed, and you might think that the short-term transactions can prove to be very necessary. We can take the example of Norwegian companies that are international, for example. an enterprise such as Norwegian Forest. It is an enterprise that has to carry out short-term currency transactions on a daily basis in order to secure itself. I would like to challenge the speakers who come after me to define: What of Norwegian Forest's daily transactions is that which is speculative and short-term? So you have to be concrete, if you're going to try to get the concepts down on the ground, and not just try to pretend that you can put them down. I agree that the new global economy is facing many challenges for politicians, but I believe they are at a very different level than introducing 0.1 pst., 0.2 pst. or, for that matter, higher charges on currency transactions. I think that such a fee would have the effect that it would be good for the big and rich to afford to pay, and the poor will again put the back in the queue. In fact, some of the countries that have made the most of the global economy are part of the developing economies — i.e. countries that have moved from one level of the world to another. Unfortunately, some of these countries have not moved into the global economy without taking the precautionary measures that developed economies have taken in the past, among others. in the form of a very comprehensive regulatory framework for financial institutions that ensure soundness, competition and transparency — three key issues that are ensured by legislation in Norway and in Western countries, in the United States and the EU. Looking at the causes of the currency crises in Asia, or for that matter in Mexico, it is, of course, pleasing for some of these countries themselves to say that the reason was international speculation. But it doesn't hold up as a description. Looking at what has happened in retrospect in countries such as Thailand, Japan and Indonesia, where the crisis hit quite dramatically, it was clearly underlying weaknesses in these countries' economies that were the real cause of the currency crisis. So you can't believe you're getting well just not taking the temp. So it's not the thermometer's fault. Or to use another picture: if the piece of music isn't what you wanted, it's not exactly certain that it's the pianist's fault. I agree that there is a need to do a lot at international level, not least through the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, in order to prevent – I will not go as far as to say international financial crises, because it is, however, quite violent, but at least regional financial crises that can have international effects. And then, in fact, I think that both of these bodies, both the World Bank and the Monetary Fund, have done a lot in these areas. But some of this is unpleasant, for example. it is unpleasant for a developing country to have to provide regular statistical information and practise transparency about its economy which makes it possible to see when possible crises are on the rise. The international debate on the Mexico crisis has just been linked to this: why not see what was about to happen early enough to prevent at least something? The reason lies among others: In these countries — to say — national, not to say nationalistic traditions that make them rather open and sometimes have poor statistical tools. More should be done in these areas, but the World Bank is also moving in the right direction here. So, in other words, I'm not underestimating the challenge of the global economy, but I think that the Tobin tax as an international promotion area is a blind road, both professionally and politically, and not least when it comes to achieving upliftment. A government would like to deliver a report annually to Stortinget and tell them how it works. We got Canada's support last year. We get that this year, and probably next year too, but it stays with that. We could probably add some countries. But to put it like that, just as unrealistic it will be no matter how often the reports come. This is stopped either way by a group of larger countries. Finally, just the little reflection to Mr. The deepening of the path of the developing world was to ensure that national concession schemes were provided for important areas such as energy. In fact, most developing countries are well-known. If one were to use Mexico as one of the major oil producing countries as an example, the Mexican base has long been totally barred from foreigners. It is not internationally highlighted as a success story. Unfortunately, the Mexican state oil company is rather an example of an opposite. Brazil's base has long been rather closed to foreigners. And the developing countries have chosen to progress largely as Norway, perhaps with even more restrictive positions initially. In fact, none of these examples can be highlighted as countries that have had great success with them, and it was interesting in particular that Mexico was just the example that was used in a country hit by international currency trade, according to Mr. Deep pedal. Mexico is also the country that has most consistently used concession policy to prevent foreign companies from accessing Mexican capital. But it's under decoration, on the initiative of Mexico itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e397	The recent vice president of the World Bank, Joseph Stiglitz, was recently in Sweden and then came up with a force force on the economists who run the major international organizations. He called them third-rate economists from first-rate universities, and he went on to say that they have more sense in five-star hotels than in the villages they're going to visit. So that means that the criticism of some of the advice given is, in fact, often stronger from the professional environments than they are from politicians or the general public. It's because these institutions have had a very important role, but unfortunately they've got stuck in a track that makes them not living to the same degree in the new era and giving the necessary advice in the time we're living in. And it's especially the fact that currency transactions have increased so significantly over the past two decades, which means that you have to come up with new kinds of advice. Sir. Foss was inside at Tobin, as he said took a distance from his own suggestion. He doesn't, he's taking a distance from Attac. And he has to. My point is this: we don't want to focus on what are long-term and short-term transactions. It has to do every single business. The point is that at the moment that some transactions are made unprofitable, companies will not make such a transaction on the basis of a commercial assessment, simply because it may by nature be short-sighted, and then you won't get the suggested profit on the transaction. That's what makes this proposal wise, and it makes it operational. Then I am at any time willing to discuss other good suggestions. What I may think the representative Foss and other opponents are not sufficiently moving in, is that market liberalism has won, and it has probably won a crushing victory, and it is not possible to see that there is anything that can replace it – perhaps fortunately. But the point is, what kind of governance should you use to try to create a relatively greater degree of stability than what we have today? And the right-hand side of Norway, as the right-hand side of many countries, says that the market is fixing this. But the market doesn't. The point is that it is this combination of political governance and the market that is likely to create a better world for most people, and not this one-sided focus on the fact that the market itself is so brilliant. I think a lot of countries over time will see that you need this. I could well imagine discussing this in a broader forum than in the Stortinget. I believe that the Security Council should be a natural arena for this. I believe that the Security Council should have had an international conference to try and discuss governance. Unfortunately, it is not the will to do this in the Norwegian Grand Prix, but in many other countries this type of issue is being discussed. I think it is a pity that the Norwegian right-hand side chooses to stand outside. If we look at it internationally, there are indeed strong forces in conservative, economic environments that believe that it is now necessary to find new governance. This is a proposal. If there are other proposals, I am at any time willing to discuss them as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e410	I agree that many economists, including conservatives, make interesting contributions to the debate on how to prevent unfortunate outcomes of the open international economy. There are two trends that characterise the proposals of these economists. One is openness, which still faces great counter-conceptions. To prevent crises, you need to have transparency about economic data in order to do something in time. The second Council is closer regional and transnational committed economic cooperation. The best example of what we have so far internationally is the EU. I understand that the representative Djupedal is against both sides. It is well possible that over the years, the World Bank may have provided advice that has not worked well enough in relation to some developing economies in crisis. But throughout, I have recorded that there is a change in the World Bank's advice that takes into account a perhaps somewhat broader perspective than just the isolated economic one. It is clear that for some developing economies it is not only interesting to see how the market works. Developing countries that are currently facing a threat to their population in an enormous growth in HIV/AIDS disease must also do something health-friendly, informative to address such a threat. So there's not just questions about looking at the market. But there's one good advice I think the IMF and the World Bank should perhaps stand tougher in relation to some of the developing economies in Asia: Before they released international capital freely into their country, they should have a law that guaranteed the soundness of financial institutions, and one should not interfere politically with individual decisions in banking and financial institutions. Unfortunately, we have some examples of such interference, bordering on pure corruption, which has caused some of the crisis in some of the Asian countries. Here the World Bank should perhaps be tougher in its demands. That's the point of view I understand the representative Djupedal doesn't share. Otherwise, the most perceptive thing in the last post was that SV's representative thought there was no alternative to international capitalism. I guess he also used the expression "luckily". At least it has to be said to be an ideological storm ride in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e419	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3236]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e433	This is a proposal for a document from three representatives to make the VAT compensation scheme for municipalities and counties in general. The majority have chosen to attach this protocol and also refer to the revised national budget, for which the opinion has been issued by the Financial Committee for some time and which has been known to be the subject of revised national budgets. The majority point to the fact that the VAT is a large income item for the country and a central part of the financing of the Norwegian welfare state, and that it is therefore important that this tax is given the broadest possible basis for keeping the general rates low and thus avoiding distortions in the economy. Furthermore, the majority points out that even after the extension of the basis for the sale of services through the VAT reform, which is due to take effect on 1 July, large parts of the Norwegian economy are exempt from the tax. In addition to the vast majority of the public sector, this applies in particular to: passenger transport, overnight accommodation and the financial industry. Moreover, operators who do not calculate VAT on their sales are not allowed to deduct an in-depth charge. This may provide an incentive for tax-based adjustment because those excluded from the scheme will benefit from using their own employees rather than buying a tax-based service from outside. However, the majority would stress that, as long as the VAT base is not made entirely general and independent of the turnover criteria, the tax advantage of self-employment will exist for all those operating activities that are exempt from the VAT scheme. The extension of the VAT base has helped to make the issue of possible compensation relevant for more industries, but not in a way that is fundamentally different from that of non-compensatory industries today. However, this reform has also reduced the scale of the problem by the fact that several traders have now become subject to charges. This means that, in the view of the majority, the reform cannot be said to provide a basis for a different assessment of the need to extend the VAT compensation scheme to counties and municipalities than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e446	The proposal to make the VAT compensation scheme for municipalities and counties in general is a proposal that has been promoted a number of times earlier in the United Kingdom. In the course of the last two majorization periods, at least we have voted over it three times, as far as I can remember. However, there is a new situation that has arisen when we simultaneously expand the area of VAT coating quite drastically, which has quite a significant impact on municipalities and counties. The most surprising thing about the adjustment is that some parties that have previously been in favour of a general VAT compensation scheme, such as the Christian People's Party, do not now have any comments about entering into a general compensation scheme. It is also a bit surprising in view of the fact that the Christian People's Party in the last period was a tone in making sure that this VAT compensation scheme would also apply to non-governmental organisations operating in conjunction with the municipalities, i.e. operating on behalf of the municipalities, in the social field. I am somewhat surprised that the Christian People's Party did not tone up a fundamental position that one should have a general system of compensation. What's the problem? Well, first of all, it's a problem that this way you give a less incentive to operate effectively in municipalities and counties. It is often seen that municipalities are trying to set up e.g. the clean-up of tenders and allow the separate department to compete. Then you can see that if it had not been for a lack of VAT compensation scheme, you would have chosen a different cleaning unit than to continue with it on your own. Just a few weeks ago, Fjell decided to go on her own, despite the fact that it was at least 12-13 pst. less efficient than having bought it privately. It paid off for the municipality to operate autonomously because you would not get compensation for the VAT. In this way, the use of funds in the public sector is less effective. This contrasts in stark contrast with the desire to have a renewal programme for more efficient operation in the public sector, more out of each krona, more services to users and less time in bureaucracy. In this area, it seems that the Municipal Association has put a damp hand over the Workers' Party. And even if one argues with questions related to the basis of the entire VAT system, it is that in the public sector this is to give with one hand and take the other – the money goes out one place and is collected elsewhere. But it creates less efficient counties and municipalities, less efficient operations, and therefore also less well-being and less actively targeting users. In addition, there are some consequences in the distribution between municipalities and counties. This is because the smaller municipalities are more dependent on purchasing services, because they cannot have the same activity of their own, especially in the areas to which the VAT investment is now extended, i.e. in the field of services. Here, much more smaller municipalities will depend on buying this whole part of services. It's just to think about the difference between Oslo and Bergen, who have their own municipal law offices, in relation to the small municipalities around the country that don't have it, but who also need this kind of service, and who have to buy them covered by 24 pst. VAT. In this way, the public sector should be treated differently from the private sector in relation to the question of VAT compensation, precisely because we are concerned here with a more efficient use of funds, and where there is money in any case – if you see the public sector as a whole – there are only redeployments between different parts. It is still the case that most of the revenue of the Municipality of Norway goes through appropriations through the income system and over the state budget. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that the majority do not see that it is important to organise competition from a renewal perspective. In this innovation perspective, it is important to take into account the need to have equivalent conditions of competition for those competing. There would also be an advantage for public employees, and not least for the users of municipal and county services, if they had obtained a VAT compensation that was general and that ensured that it was the most effective operation that was actually the most important in the municipalities – not that the state made an incentive to operate everything autonomously. I would like to address the proposal by the minority on the right and by the representative Steinar Bastesen, proposal No. 1 in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e463	The representative Erna Solberg has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e466	The intention of the big business law of 17 February 1995 was that there should be competition neutrality in the areas to which the law applies. But the functioning of the law is not the condition of equal conditions of competition. In the case of self-production of services, municipalities are not subject to VAT, while in the case of the purchase of services from private individuals they are subject to VAT. Municipalities shall send data on VAT costs by 1 June of the year following the imposition of the costs, but the reimbursement itself shall take place in the following year. This imposes an interest rate charge on municipalities that is distorting competition. In addition, the refund will be paid to the municipality and not directly to the institution that pays the VAT, which does not guarantee that the money will be returned to the individual institution. These are two factors which both make it more attractive to choose internal solutions rather than making tenders. The fact that the Government’s proposal was then amended at the time of the treatment in Stortingen by the removal of clean-up services means that private companies are effectively excluded from this large market because their services now become 24 pst after 1 July. more expensive than the same tasks performed by municipal staff. Or another way of saying, municipal self-production can be 24 pst. less efficient and yet competing with private companies. The problem is general and therefore the solution should also be general and apply to all industries. Discriminating legislation will in itself slow down the development of private enterprises, including: small enterprises in the districts, and making more efficient use of public resources. In particular, this should be a common goal for several of the lots in this room. And from 1 July, the problems will be extended to a number of new areas, for example: engineering services, legal services and a wide range of consultancy services. This will particularly affect small municipalities, which will receive more expensive services because they do not have the opportunity to have all kinds of professionals within their own ranks. For the large municipalities it will mean less, because they usually have this kind of expertise and don't have to buy it out on the free market. Through previous treatment of matters relating to VAT compensation to municipalities and county municipalities, there has been agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. This is evident both in joint committee comments, joint proposals and in the debate here in the Chamber. The agreement has been that the rules should be general and apply to all types of service purchases, requiring that the late reimbursement should be interest-bearing, and that rules should be drawn up to ensure that the reimbursement came to the institution that had paid VAT. It is therefore both disappointing and incomprehensible that the Christian People's Party and the Left have turned 180 degrees and suddenly the opposite of what they thought and can measure so strongly in 1995. The argument at the time was so clear that when the two parties now do what I would call a dramatic turnaround operation, it can be difficult to interpret it in a way other than that they have completely changed their position on the matter, and that they now want to join with the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre in order to stop further competitive outsourcing and efficiency in the municipal sector, and to ensure that municipal employees live a protected life completely free of competition. In its explanatory memorandum, the majority point out that VAT is a substantial source of income for the country. It is a matter of course, but has nothing to do with this matter. This is about non-discrimination between municipal self-production and private purchases. However, without a compensation scheme, no VAT is paid because the municipalities choose their own production. The compensation scheme is financed by the municipalities themselves, and does not incur any losses for the State. So it's only about non-discrimination, and it gives municipalities the opportunity to streamline and rationalise their operations. I would like to mention proposal No. 2, which is included in the setting. The Progress Party will also support proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e481	Per Erik Monsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e484	Purpose of Document No 8:68 is to create a level playing field for the private and public sectors in the context of public procurement. In a plural note where the Christian People's Party is involved, we point out that the VAT reform may be capable of strengthening the distortions of competition between the public and private sectors. We are in the process of – and there should not be anything secret about it – implementing a major VAT reform, which still has a good deal to do with delimitation and exemption. Among other things, we see that voluntary teams and organisations are coming out very badly at the moment. This will hardly find solution in the matter that we now have to deal with, and this will meet with us in other matters that are also the responsibility of this forum. From the Christian People's Party's side, we will work hard to find a good solution, for example. the challenges that voluntary teams and organisations face in relation to the VAT reform that we are dealing with. For us, it is natural to get a better overview of the impact of the VAT reform before moving on to the issues raised here. So there's a funny definition of a 'dramatic reverse operation' for which the Christian People's Party here is to blame when we don't go into the suggestions that lead to this case. But we say, on the other hand, that this takes us a little bit of time, and not least we need to clear up other contexts. Therefore, we have also found it natural that this matter is included in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e493	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3236]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e507	The rationale for this special document No. The 8-proposal for repealing a regulation is the suspicion that the department of some kind of double communication would try to impose a repair charge on collision-damaged cars and motorcycles under the tyre name ‘construction fee’. Of course it's not like that. But I'm going to admit that if you were skeptical, the first draft consultation, which was held last fall, could be interpreted as such. It was characterized by a lot of details, and many who are happy to keep on with cars and motorcycles, felt that now the sun was about to go down. The objections at that time were numerous and led, following a call from the Financial Committee in the budgetary position, to a second draft consultation, which resulted in the regulation of 1 April 2001. The cleanup of the original existing regulation is required. Examples show that it has turned both ways. The construction of cars and motorcycles has, on the one hand, taken place without a basis for collecting a one-off fee. On the other hand, we know of examples of motorcycles with frame damage where a one-off fee has been imposed even when technical inspection of the damaged frame has required total replacement. These matters have been addressed in the new regulations of 1 April and, in my opinion, corrected. In connection with new § 6-1 – here I have to be a little detailed – it is particularly underlined that the customs district manager has the power to allow more than half of the self-supporting bodywork or bodywork and/or frame to be replaced, without this being considered as a construction, if this is necessary to carry out a technically sound repair. In the case of a motorcycle, this means that the entire frame can be replaced after inspection if it is necessary to enable a damaged motorcycle without being defined as a build-up and without triggering a new charge. I understand that this is the intention of all the political parties – including the Progress Party, I think. However, uncertainties related to motivation and practice by the authorities now lead to the rejection of an appropriate regulation in my opinion. This means that the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance are facing a slightly special task. It is agreed on what you want to achieve with the regulations in this area, but you do not agree on how this should be put into practice. I believe that the Minister of Finance will also solve this, that either with new or with current regulations, it becomes a reality that repairing vehicle damage – old veteran vehicles or ordinary cars in traffic – should not, of course, trigger a new one-off charge, because it cannot be perceived as construction. But if you want to make a lot of money by building a car, you should not be able to fool yourself away. With this I take up proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e524	Erik Dalheim has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e527	It is important to have a system of charges that is understandable and rational, and a lot has been done in this area. But when the Christian People's Party now thinks it is necessary to go against a regulation change, it has a cause in an uncertain relation to how the legislation is practiced when it comes to points 6.1 and 6.2, as it says in the setting. I refer to the case manager's detailed explanation of the case and find that there is a broad desire to do so in a proper and good way. But, as I said, we can't be involved in putting this into action, as it is now designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e536	It is commendable that the Ministry of Finance has a desire to clean up unclear legislation in order to make them clearer and more transparent. However, this has not been the case in this case, which concerns the legislation relating to the one-off charges on motor vehicles. In his letter to the Committee on 18 April of this year, the Minister of Finance correctly states: ‘The scrapping process is a continuation of the legislation that has existed since 1990.’ If this were true, we would have avoided all the protests about the new legislation. The amended Regulations have been in consultation for two rounds. The protests have been ‘hauled’, pointing out that the new regulations are different from the old, but almost identical to the Circular No of the Customs and Tax Directorate. 02/ 2000 Mo. This means that, through the circular, many of the provisions sent to the hearing in February of this year were tried. That's to say, anticipating events. Some of the protests have been followed, but there is still so much uncertainty about how points 6.1 and 6.2 will be practiced that it has been found most sensible not to implement them now. The right is strongly opposed to the fact that the repair of a collision-damaged vehicle shall trigger a one-off charge, whether in the case of a car or motorcycle. It must be a general principle that this should not happen. The right refers to the fact that the vehicle regulations provide clear enough definitions of the difference between construction and repair, and they should therefore be able to be implemented in the new legislation. We agree that legislation should prevent the free construction of vehicles in Norway. It is not a good idea to circumvent the law, but the child must not be thrown out with the bath water. The right is initially very careful when it comes to overcoming regulations, but in this case, which has been going on for so long, with so many protests, we find reason to ask that all the parties involved should be able to reach a common reality and have a common goal. That's why we're going to go in order for points 6.1 and 6.2 to be postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e550	The discount has made changes to the one-off charge on motor vehicles so that from 1 April the charge is converted from an import charge to a charge paid at the time of registration. In this respect, this proposal was sent to the hearing. In the course of this consultation, some points were also raised that had nothing to do with the conversion, including: this with body changes and repair of vehicles. The legislation of 1 April 2001 is designed to replace a bodywork – in the event of damage – under certain conditions. As the conditions are designed, this in reality means that for a vehicle damaged, a full new one-off charge must be paid if the damage is of a certain extent. Following the assessment of the Progress Party, this is nothing more than the introduction of a form of ‘repair fee’. Since the one-off charges are high enough as they are and in the case of some vehicles more than half of the real price of the vehicle, it becomes unreasonable to levy a further charge once more when the vehicle is damaged and rebuilt afterwards. In reality, the regulation means that if the vehicle is more damaged than 50 pst., a full one-off charge – i.e. import fee – will have to be paid to the State if one chooses to repair the vehicle. After the evaluation by the proposer, this is highly unreasonable. When a vehicle has been imported into the country and full charge has been paid, it must be the cost of the repair that determines whether a repair pays or not. In addition, this is a poor distribution policy. The construction fee for major repairs to motor vehicles will be very uneven. Persons who cannot initially afford a newer vehicle shall be penalised financially by, for example, imposing a build-up charge equivalent to the one-off charge on the car in the event of a major collision damage. The proposal also affects motorists who, in the interests of cultural or motor mechanics, want to preserve and restore older vehicles. Often, such vehicles are hit by rust, which in turn requires that large parts of the bodywork or frame be replaced, which will thus trigger a full one-off charge once more. If restoration objects hold the normal Norwegian standard with a few decades of weathering behind them, or identical parts are not used in the restoration, then a build-up fee must be levied to activate the car or motorcycle. Youth which engages outside the organised association and which, at the same time, acquires technical skills for which society is beginning to lack, shall be at risk of being penalised by the State by charging for this exciting build-up of competence. This is therefore a bad signal to young people. The proposal is also environmentally hostile, since motor vehicles will then be much more likely to suffer damage. The concentration threshold will be lower because in the future insurance companies will have to calculate the ‘repair charge’ to the State in addition to the actual costs of repair. So in a time when recycling is increasingly being used, the state ends up being a propellant to the opposite. Although the regulation was better than initially assumed, the possibility of adaptation would be significant and could lead to specific adaptations. In addition, the tightening of the rules on vehicle construction is such a sharp twist that this charge is, in effect, from a build-up charge to a «repair charge». The progress batch is, as stated, of the opinion that it is the cost of a repair that is essential for the vehicle to be repaired or not. The tightening of regulations in such a way as has been done will lead to significant costs for the individual driver list resulting from an accident where the damage exceeds the new limits. If the owner has not insured the vehicle, the full cost will fall on the individual owner. If, on the other hand, the owner of the vehicle has the car insured, the insurance company will receive the bill. This will, of course, lead insurance companies to allocate the costs to all policy holders, which will lead to a higher insurance premium for all vehicle owners. Letter dated 18 April 2001 from the Minister of Finance states: ‘The intention of the one-off charge for the construction of motor vehicles is to prevent the free production of vehicles built in Norway with second-hand parts.’ In my view and in the view of the Progress Party, this must at best be a gross misinterpretation of the legislation. In order to build/repair a vehicle in Norway, a vehicle for which a one-off charge has already been paid must be fitted and, as long as a vehicle is repaired to be identical to the vehicle for which it was initially damaged and paid a one-off charge, it can be difficult to call a new vehicle in my view, and must therefore not be recharged. Under the rules applicable until 1 April 2001, it would be impossible to build a vehicle in Norway which was significantly different from the vehicle to be repaired without having to pay a one-off fee again. Can the rapporteur or others explain to me how, on this basis, a free production of cars on used parts can be started? It's simply an impossibility. The point of progress is aware that some companies repair vehicles by changing bodywork. In such bodywork changes, it was possible to change to an identical but newer bodywork according to the previous regulations. Something like this would be possible for a small number of car models that use the same chassis over a long period of time, and should not be a kind of problem in the eyes of the Progress Party. On this basis, I address our proposal. Subsidy, the Progress Party will join the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Left and the Representative of Bastisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e579	Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e582	I showed in my post that when the first draft regulations came before Christmas, that is, on the autumn of last year, the sun went down for some people. The representative Svendsen's articles now gave almost an impression that the sun has not been up since then, so that one has not had the opportunity to read the new regulations, as they exist, and the intention that is in them, in a clear way, in my opinion. I know that the representative Svendsen is aware that the reason for this has been tightened up is that you have had tax breaks. So there are not repairs to be done, but an improper construction of cars, as he himself referred to, because you have taken an old car – there are a few marks right – turned it down on the frame and got another used bodywork, done a lot of ‘trixi’ things and made a lot of money. The car appears to be a new car, without one being able to charge a one-off fee according to the current regulations. And finally, I want to conclude with what I concluded in my first post, that we have a common intention of what we want to achieve. But the representative Svendsen's posts here seem to me more involved in distorting the job of the Minister of Finance than being a good guide. The good thing is that he will vote in favour of the proposal on which Kjellaug Nakkim is a member and which is the committee's proposal for a decision. The intent of that is okay, I think, although it is unnecessary. Indeed, the present regulations cover these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e591	Only one playing card: I think it's the way the sun is still down for most people outside this room, with the exception of the Workers' Party. Repairs shall not be affected, says Dalheim, taking into account the new regulation. But I think it's actually so that most people outside this room, those who run this, look and know that that's exactly what's happening. And it actually happens regardless of whether the Workers' Party understands it or not. Then the representative Dalheim is concerned that I should make the situation difficult for the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance. I can comfort the representative Dalheim that I am going to do everything I can to make the situation as difficult as possible for both the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance, who is charging the Norwegian population more and more taxes and taxes on everything between heaven and earth.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e600	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3237]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e614	This is a Document No. Eight proposals, supported by four representatives, on the removal of the tax on disease treatment expenditure. As the position appears, it's probably confusing, because what appears to be a majority in the caste is not the majority in the main hall. That means that I should essentially justify the view of what appears to be a minority here, but which is the majority in the Chamber – the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. The reason why we go against this proposal and propose to reject it is tax policy as well as health policy. Everything is as important as that, so let me take it after a while. To provide for this type of tax exemption for the treatment of disease would result in a rather dramatic discrimination against workers. This could mean that if two workers got the same disease, one could get paid for the treatment of their employer, while the other had to go to a private clinic and pay for it himself. The last worker would already have been taxed by the means of which he would have to pay his treatment, while the other worker would have this tax-free. This would, of course, lead to totally unacceptable discrimination, which would, at the same time, break with entirely central tax policy objectives which are initially widely agreed in the Grand Duchy, namely that all forms of income should be taxed, regardless of the form in which the income was received, either as remuneration, in kind, as well as as the coverage of private expenditure or other financial support. In addition, this will lead to the fact that, in practice, it will be the employer and not the health service that prioritises who will be treated in Norway. There is reason to believe that there will be an individual’s position in the workplace that will determine whether or not the employer will cover this cost. This means that there will be no unacceptable discrimination and that there will be no grounds for health policy but other reasons for who will receive this offer. In addition, we have every reason to believe that if this were introduced, it would lead to a significant increase in the private provision of treatment, which, in the majority's view, is not desirable. There is already a shortage of public health resources, and there is no doubt that this will lead to the emergence of private health services and health clinics. Just in order to say this, there is a cross-political objective in this Chamber of improving the provision of public treatment. Substantial funds are now also being used to reduce health cows, including: in the case of purchases of healthcare abroad, for which the Stortinget entered before Christmas, when it was granted NOK 1 billion. This has not been fully used, but the main objective is to use free processing capacity abroad to relieve Norwegian health cows. What is also an important point for the majority to go against this is that it would be grossly discriminatory for all those who do not have an employer, those who are not in the labour market. The offer that the proposers here want will, without exception, concern people who have an employer. It will mean that large groups of the Norwegian people will fall outside this possibility. Of course, it's about chronically ill people, it's about students, homeworkers, children, youth, pensioners, not talking about the unemployed, who won't get this opportunity. It means that this will be highly discriminatory, and it also makes the majority want to oppose. What is also a point, but which is not the most important, is, of course, that if this is to have some extent, it will lead to a significant loss of taxes and taxes, which will then have to be covered by other means. In summary, the majority view is that this is not a good proposal. The intention of the proposal is to reduce health cows in Norway and to bring people back to work. It's a goal that I think most parties will stand behind. The instrument proposed here has so many shadow pages and so many highly discriminatory aspects that it will be unacceptable. This would lead to totally unacceptable discrimination between workers in the labour market and could also undermine the public health service. On that basis, I would like to mention the proposal that Document No. 8:86 is rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e642	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e645	I do not dispute the good intentions and concerns behind the proposal for tax exemptions when the employer pays for the medical treatment of his employees or any selected employee. The concern that patients experience having to wait a long time for the treatment of their suffering, we all share. Therefore, the proposal, if only one thing is possible to have one thought in your head at a time, may be offensive. But if you see it in context, the medicine that's prescribed becomes crazy. The next logical step in the extension of the proposal is for employers to establish private health insurance for part of their employees, which will help create a larger market for private clinics, which can undermine public health provision and the principle of equivalence in treatment. The result can quickly become a two-part health market. On the basis of an overall assessment, a question has to be asked whether it is right for the Community to pay through tax laws a privilege for a few, or whether it is necessary for us to pursue a policy that ensures all the necessary well-being. In the welfare country of Norway, we have so far had a consensus that all those in need of treatment for disease should be assured through a good public and free health care, and the quality should be such as to satisfy everyone – high and low. It demands on our health services both in terms of quality and capacity. These requirements do not call for tax havens. On the other hand, it demands the Community's willingness to participate in and finance such a health service, so that it can be good for everyone. The proposal we are discussing now concerns both health policy and fiscal policy principles. Health policy has been widely agreed that the needs and health policy assessments will determine the treatment for which a sheep is treated and the priority given if waiting time is available. The consequence of this proposal is that treatment options are determined by randomness and by the employer’s willingness to pay. Persons in exactly the same health situation with different employers may be treated differently, one is treated differently, the other is not. This is not related to our health policy objectives on equivalent treatment. In a letter to the Committee, the current Minister of Finance, in the same way as the Minister of Finance of the Bondevik Government, stresses that equal treatment of all types of income is a fundamental principle of tax law and that any benefit gained from work is taxable, regardless of whether the benefit is provided in the form of cash, in kind, cover for private expenditure or other financial support. If one were to introduce specific exemption rules that provide for tax exemptions for the cover of private health costs, tax legislation would impose unacceptable tax discrimination between workers. The Labour Party thus supports the assessments and conclusion of both the current Minister of Finance and the Minister of Finance of the Bondevik Government. We also support the Committee's proposal that the proposal be rejected on the basis of both health policy and fiscal policy principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e658	I would like to make the last speech in a later article to develop the view that any benefit gained from own work should be taxed. A series of exceptions have been made to that principle. I ask the representative, for example. think about the advantages she herself enjoys as a staggering representative every day with access to free garage and free health studio. I do not know whether this meant that wholesalers are particularly exempted, or whether she will introduce taxes in these areas for workers who have such advantages. I'm sure a lot of people will be interested in getting a point of view of it. But back to what this matter really applies. It is true, as was said, that there is a majority in the vote, consisting of representatives from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who support the proposal that employers' expenditure on disease treatment be exempted from employer's fees and income tax. There's reason to believe that this majority might be a minority in the big room, though if one focuses on the opinions the Labour Party's representatives are always coming with when they're not in this room, on taxes and charges and the sum of it all, a real believe that there's a real majority in the hall that wants it. I have registered that representatives of the Central Party have expressed a very positive opinion on the proposal that is now before us, and I have some sort of idea that it would be a majority who actually wanted this. But there will be a choice soon, and we'll see if conditions change. The central part writes in a comment in the setting that they: ‘considers that there may be good reasons, in isolation, to support the proposal for tax exemptions where the employer buys health services which receive workers more quickly back to work. Both for individuals and for enterprises, there could be gains in providing tax exemptions for privately funded operations’. I fully agree with that. However, the Centre Party further argues against the same position, and writes that: ‘it is a concern that the priority of who needs the most rapid treatment will be more widely taken by employers, and not primarily on a medical basis. This may allow for a trend towards a sort society’. I think this last quoted statement testifies to a very fundamental mistrust of employers. Firstly, it is not that the majority of this will probably go for a ban on employers paying for operations. They will continue to do so for those workers who are particularly valuable to quickly return to their jobs and for companies that have a good economy for it. It'll keep going. The sorting will only be more fine masked. If you had followed the proposers, you would have opened up more companies and more workers to be covered by such a scheme. So the discrimination – if at all there is an element in it – will at least be less in favour of the proposal. Secondly, I have to say that it is mainly about people who are not high-priority in the health policy queue. They're coming out pretty fast. This is about operations of the kind that make you out of work, but where the patient does not have so life-threatening or so annoying diseases that you are highly prioritised. There are some employers who think quite rationally, that it is better to get this man or this woman back to work as soon as possible, taking into account that there is a shortage of labour in the vast majority of industries. And I think that's actually a pretty reasonable idea. There is also the argument in the debate that there may be a breakdown in the queue by some being operated on by the company, for example. buys operating capacity at a private clinic not included in the public offer or at a foreign clinic. So one might risk that the same foreign clinic of another county municipality has been used for operations, for example. hip operations, which you have to wait a very long time to perform. So we can risk a private company purchasing operations at a clinic that is also used by public Norway and completely State aid, but the patient happens not to live in the right county municipality. This actually shows how pointless today's system is, and I have to say that if it were to be such that someone – because one of the employers wants to get back to work quickly – comes in front of others who are not in work, I am willing to live with it, especially considering that the queue is going faster than those who are left if someone has gone out of line. Ideally, of course, the queue should not be something we're discussing, but in reality, it's unfortunately like this, despite the fact that we live in a country that's among them with the best medical coverage in the world and spend quite a lot of public expenditure on health care, but that doesn't give the count that we all would have wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e686	This is a proposal that the Progress Party has been making for very many years without significant support from the Stortinget. It is therefore gratifying that more and more parties see the value of removing the tax on the cost of treating disease, although it is regrettable that it does not seem to be possible to create a majority this time either. Too many people today are waiting for the necessary treatment from public health services. Many are waiting longer than is medically sound. Furthermore, it is a paradox that people end up being far away from work, waiting for very simple interventions that would enable them to return to work. For employers, long sick leave periods involve increased costs, particularly for small enterprises. When, in fact, the employer is willing to pay for the treatment itself, either by private institutions or perhaps abroad, there should be a clear need to change the tax treatment of such private funding. For all parties, this would be economically sensible and could also lead to significant savings in social security payments. It is therefore disappointing that the majority of the population also choose to reject a very wise proposal in this regard. There might also be reason to remember that a queue actually gets shorter when someone disappears from the queue, and it's also for the benefit of those who are further behind. There is also reason to remember that we have this discussion at all, simply because we have a health service that is not – for various reasons probably – able to carry out the tasks they are supposed to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e695	I have to admit, I'm a little disappointed that the majority seems to make this a fundamental debate about a public or private health system. I had in the longest hope that the debate would focus on what this is actually indebted to, a practice that is unimaginable, and that for those who get away with it, is completely incomprehensible. We simply don't discuss today whether or not to allow an employer to pay for their additions. It happens, it has happened, and it will happen. Socio-economic assessments should be sufficient to support the proposed approach. But the articles from those who are opposed to the proposal seem to me to be of confidence that employers have a particular ability to judge, or that they may have a little bit of a poor moral and ethical spine. It's not my experience that it's like this. Mi experience is, in fact, consistently opposite. But what I think is most alarming and painful in this matter, and which is the consequence if the majority in the committee also becomes the majority in the Chamber, is that we will get a discrimination that is not good, that the workers who are unable to pay the tax have to say no to such an offer from the employer, while those who have a somewhat stronger economic backbone can accept it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e702	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3237]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e716	First to an incurrency: the Ministry’s letter of 3 April 2001, to which reference is made, is not attached and will need to be corrected in a new version. Document No 8:88 for 2000-2001 that part of the corporate tax should again fall to the municipalities, is a proposal by the staging representatives Sverre J. Hoddevik, Michael Momyr and Erna Solberg. It's not more than a year since Stortinget last rejected a similar proposal from the Progress Party, so this is what you can safely call a rematch. The government budget for 1999 decided that the deficit tax or corporation tax would be wholly due to the State and that the municipal sector would be compensated for by an increase in the tax paid by the imprest administrator. The reason why a majority in the Stortinget was in favour of this conversion was that a more even distribution of income would be achieved both between municipalities and between county municipalities, because it is actually such that while taxes from personal taxpayers are relatively evenly distributed between municipalities, the tax from companies was unevenly distributed. In this way, some municipalities could provide their inhabitants with a much better service than, for example: other municipalities. The conversion has led to a more even distribution of income. It was also such that corporate taxes could vary considerably from year to year, which made it difficult for municipalities to know how much income they would actually get. The Labour Party believes – at a time when all parties on the Stortinget are in favour of a simpler Norway unless bureaucracy – that the transformation of corporate tax was a proper step to get to a simpler Norway. The central parties also agreed, because it was actually the municipal minister Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad from the Senterpartiet and the Bondevik government who proposed it in 1998, and it got a majority in the Stortinget. Municipal corporation tax is administratively very resource-intensive. This relates to the settlement of income and deduction items between the office and the municipality of production, and in particular to the subsequent distribution between these municipalities in respect of the company's debt interest rates, etc., based on the net income definitively determined in each of the municipalities. It is enough to mention only the so-called Hydro case, where disputes between 50 municipalities, the state and the Hydro companies about the distribution of income base for tax entirely back from 1966 are still pending. To decide now that part of the corporate tax will again fall to the municipalities, as the Right Party and the Advance Party advocate – without extensive investigation – at least shows that these parties are not really so concerned with making things simpler and thus reduce bureaucracy, as we often hear from the same parties. In the suspension, the Right and the Advance Party state that ‘divide criteria must be established which give a fairer distribution of corporation tax than before’ — what they now add is that not all shall fall within the municipality in which the group has its head office. There is at least a recognition that the scheme was unfair as it was, even if they voted against it at the time. The rebate has already decided that the system of making corporation tax itself is to be evaluated by the State when the scheme has worked for some years. Therefore, the matter will come back to Stortinget in less than long time. That is why the majority, consisting of all parties except the Right and the Advance Party, are in favour of the matter being annexed to the Protocol. The Labour Party, SV and the representative Falch see that there may be a need to facilitate the business community to find it attractive to establish itself in municipalities. It can be done in many ways. Today, it is not uncommon for businesses to demand good childcare services, good school services and school leisure arrangements when they are going to establish themselves. And if one assumes that state corporation tax has led to more commuting, as the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Center Party write in the setting, the organization of housing is very crucial. There are many other municipalities that can do to make it attractive to establish themselves there and that provide more tax revenue to the municipal register.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e737	I have to say, I am somewhat surprised at the interpretations of the last speaker that the municipalities would make it attractive for the companies to establish themselves. This is precisely the opposite; it is uninteresting for municipalities in many parts of Norway to have established enterprises. That is what the problem is, and that is why this proposal is available. I'll try to say some words about why it's like this. When the Stortinget ordered the corporation tax from being part of the municipality to become a state tax, the reason, as it is said, was that there was a great deal of uncertainty about it and that it was unevenly distributed among the municipalities. That was a problem. It was claimed that a conversion would have a good distribution effect. But the point must be that in order for a distribution to take place, there must be something to distribute. Local authorities must have an incentive to facilitate business and to give priority to industrial development. The fact that municipalities also have other motives for driving industrial development than the income from corporate taxes is not necessarily true. For many municipalities, it is probably true that there is a close link between jobs and tax revenue, but that applies far from all. It assumes that it is such that all – or at least almost all – residents have their jobs in their own municipality. This is not the case everywhere, especially in densely populated areas or in relatively small municipalities. I'm going to take a couple of examples from my own state that show how wrong it can be. So the examples are from Westfold, where work and housing are often located in different municipalities. Tønsberg, which is the county capital, has a very large number of state and county municipal jobs, and also a significant industry and service industries. Tønsberg imports labour from all surrounding municipalities. When Tønsberg no longer receives tax income from the companies, there is no interest in the municipality in facilitating new business; that means only expenditure. Therefore, Tønsberg has for some time said no to an enterprise with 250 jobs, and now allocates former industrial land to residential areas. The neighbouring municipality of Stokke, which is a typical agricultural municipality with a small population but has relatively good areas, is in one way in the same situation. There, through intermunicipal cooperation with significant costs, a large business area called Borgeskogen was laid out. Now it turns out that only 10 pst. of those working in this business area live in the municipality of Stokke, and the municipality is largely left with expenditure after the company tax has lapsed, and the expenditure is increased significantly to cover large investments. It is difficult to imagine that the elected representatives in Stokke will go in to develop new industrial areas with the first. These are just a few examples from my own neighborhood, but if a believe all the statements that have come from municipalities around the country, they are far from unique. There will therefore be a fight for taxpayers, while industrial development will be a long way down on many municipal priority lists. It might not have been so dangerous if we could be sure that the companies would settle in other Norwegian municipalities, but it is not safe at all. It might as well be that you don't start businesses or you choose to establish yourself abroad. This cannot be said to be a sensible policy. The fact that the majority of the committee does not support the proposal does not come as a big surprise. The only point of light I can see is an evaluation of the conversion, and then it's hoping that the majority will see how wrong this is.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e756	The rapporteur said that this was a repetition of a previous proposal. It is in and out of the way, but there are some elements in Document No. The 8 proposal, which is also new. The reason why it was promoted was that there seemed to be a movement in some parties to do something different than what we did when the corporate tax was introduced. The central party decided at its national meeting that they would go in to bring back some of the corporate tax to the municipalities, and it gave us a legitimate hope that there might be a movement in the center, not least because a number of representatives, including from other center parties, apparently often give signals that they think this is wrong. Now there was a hope that you might have a movement that would make it possible to make changes. Why, then, are these changes important? It is important to have incentives in our system to develop business, but unfortunately – as the previous representative also pointed out – there are a number of examples that the conversion for some years has not created incentives in relation to business. In a number of areas where there is a common work area, the individual municipality does not see that it benefits from, for example: to allocate larger areas to industrial activities. It is also the case that, with the system we have today, the municipalities that facilitate — or might previously be persuaded to facilitate — more environmentally problematic and more transport-intensive business will feel that it is not attractive. Areas requiring road clearance and linking important areas do not return anything directly to the municipality. The question then is whether an indirect person sees himself profiting from it by getting new jobs. We are in a situation in Norway where we have a shortage of labour. Many municipalities lack the labour force of the businesses they already have and on which you may not focus so much. In a situation where you can't see that you can't win anything financially on it, it gets even smaller. In addition, there is the wrong structure in relation to parts of District Norway, which would probably serve to facilitate jobs, because there should be a greater connection here compared to the one offered in an area that is actually prosperous and profitable, which should seem attractive to labour, and which should therefore be a place where jobs were established to a greater extent than today. Today, all district municipalities, regardless of whether they are municipalities which have almost only public employment, and which do not really have a future for their own business, or whether there are municipalities that have a large business activity and that provide large resources for the rest of the big community, have the same poor local economy because the corporate tax has changed ownership, regardless of what they contribute to the fund. This is typical in many of the coastal districts. Many of the municipalities here have a large and active business life, and since the time they made changes in corporate tax, they have seen that there have been many fundamental structural changes. If a personal owned company changes to become a limited liability company, all tax revenue goes into the country rather than they went into the municipalities in the past. There's no logic in this. Not all tax income from business goes to the country. If one is organized as a personal company, the income goes to the municipalities, but at the moment that one is organized into a corporation, the income suddenly goes to the state. For some municipalities, this amounts to $10 million which has disappeared in recent years, for example. because of restructuring in the fishing industry. This means that what is profitable for the individual becomes a burden for the municipalities. In addition, it is not logical for those who provide for all types of industrial activity or the exploitation of resources in all areas other than the power sector not to receive anything from the business activity there, while the power stations will receive mass income from their power activities. So the energy resource has a completely different treatment in our tax system than all other types of resources have. In this way, it is not logical to have a strong ideological commitment that one should be taxed locally, while there should be no possibility of local taxation of all other uses of resources. And what are we looking at now after the company tax has been removed? Indeed, new businesses are required to receive special taxes and taxes in order to provide income to communities around them. There is more creativity and more pressure to tax business more in order to generate income for the community. What was done as an approach to creating greater equality between municipalities was therefore a long-term approach that could make it less attractive to localise in Norway, due to less organisation. This was a grip that creates less mobility in District Norway between those areas that have growth and those that don't. On the other hand, it's going to strengthen the centres, because it's going to weaken the vital growth areas beyond the big cities. In this way, there are many long-term negative structural changes that could result from this change. It is not new that the Right believes that something should be done about group taxation. The Ministry of Finance has been investigating group taxation for several years, with the blessing of the Right. A unanimous increase was intended to do something about group taxation. We have inserted into this Document No. The 8-proposal that going in to make a mathematically correct distribution of money on each business is too costly and too difficult. That's why we've said that it might be better to first set up a criteria system for allocating the income that a group is going to pay, and then distribute it to the places where the group is located, instead of the complicated system that we had before. Of course, I don't mean that what would come out of it, is necessarily 100 pst. Fair, but I think it'll be a simpler system than what you had before, and that it's completely possible to get it figured out. That's why I think the majority should really think again and make sure that our taxation system has the right incentives for economic development in Norway and the right incentives for distribution between district municipalities. This should go back to saying that all resources in Norway should be diverted into income and that all resource use should be diverted into local income. This should mean that the company tax should at least receive one share that goes to the municipalities. So we have to be concerned about getting some equality, but that similarity shouldn't be at the expense of the possibilities of developing the parts of our society that are now dynamic. When we look at the situations that we have around the country, I'm afraid that's what happens. A municipality such as: Ulsteinvik feels that very many of those who work there are commuting. The municipality has spent a lot of money on facilitating, but they are not able to build a system of public service structures, because they get too little income compared to what they received in the past, when they also had tax receipts from the big business they have there. They feel that they have a lower service offer in many areas than many of the neighbouring municipalities, because people are just commuting. It might be better for the whole area that people could live closer to their jobs because there was a better service there, and that they had the opportunity to do this by getting the growth-intensive parts of District Norway a little bit more of the income they actually generate. I refer to the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e779	Erna Solberg has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e782	Some of the disadvantages of municipal corporation tax in connection with the transfer were that the form of taxation caused adverse distribution effects, especially when the brittle relationship between office municipalities and production municipalities. This required a rather large distribution work, which required bureaucratic effort to a lesser extent. It was underlined that there were monthly variations in income from year to year. So it was warned that the municipalities would now have a lack of incentives for municipal action, and it was also said that some municipalities would miss substantial income that would not be compensated, even if it had our promise to do so. So far, the overview shows that there are very wide variations from the municipality to the municipality when it comes to the consequences of this. Most people have come through this very well, but for some the rash is quite large. There are quite a few municipalities that are involved, but the outcome for those that are in debt is large. That's exactly why we in the Christian People's Party believe that it's not necessarily a reversal of corporate tax that's the best, because it still has its disadvantages, but that what's needed is a grip that can stimulate both business development and business maintenance. I therefore assume that the Minister of Finance has also noted the plural comment that the Government is asked to provide an assessment of the consequences of the loss of corporate tax for municipalities, with a view to identifying schemes that can create tax advantages for business start-ups in municipalities. The whole purpose here is to take care of the good incentives that were in corporate tax, but to get it done in a better way. Against this background we have chosen to insert this Document No. The 8th motion for a resolution tabled by the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e793	I would like to add a few comments to the matter, also in addition to what was now said by the representative of Ingebrigt Sørfonn. There is no doubt that the old model we had for municipal corporation tax gave very large income variations for some municipalities from year to year. In addition to the large variations, we also saw that the head office municipalities had an unreasonable share of tax revenue. State corporation tax has therefore acted in relation to these two conditions. It worked evenly in relation to the annual variations that you saw before, and it has also worked well-balanced between head offices and other municipalities, which means that you have been taxed more evenly. Of course, it is a problem, as also the Right has pointed out over a long time, that with a state corporate tax, it is easy to focus more on housing than on business development, and that over time a pattern of nutrition and housing can be developed that stimulates commuting to a greater extent than what is lucky. This is particularly the case in municipalities located in a geographically densely populated area where there is a common labour market and where none of the municipalities has the necessary incentives to facilitate business start-ups. It's not quite a simple matter we're dealing with here today, because it's both advantages and disadvantages of state corporation tax, and it's benefits and disadvantages also with a municipal corporation tax. On the part of the Centre Party, we have weighed both the benefits and the disadvantages against each other, and are in favour of a note that we wish to organise, as Mr Sørfonn pointed out, that arrangements should be found that provide tax advantages for the establishment of businesses in the municipalities, while, over time, we want company taxes to be returned to the municipality under a clear assumption that company taxes are more linked to the place of production than they were in the old scheme. It's true as we're told on the Right hand side, that it can cause problems to get to a boundary like what we're talking about here. If the corporate tax is to be seen as fair as future municipal tax income, I think it is absolutely necessary to work on developing the type of mechanism in which the head office municipality does not run away with most of the income, while the production site is often eaten off with mules. That's why the Center Party has also submitted the comment that we're alone about, where we want to have the corporation tax reintroduced under such a clear assumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e806	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3237]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e820	Even with the successful conversion of one-off taxes on passenger cars in 1996, there was still a high rate of conversion activity on standard passenger cars in order to turn them into something else, then with a lower one-off charge. When this is tightened up, this should not prevent business from continuing to be able to purchase vans with a still low charge. The tightening shall lead to the removal of the most extreme adaptations. What we have now in the regulations, adopted earlier in Stortinget and presented by the Ministry of Finance on 1 April of this year's regulations, is a requirement for a specified volume in the hold. This volume, the so-called checkout, now includes all standard vans. By removing the requirement to what extent such a box is to be loaded, the Ministry of Finance has also provided room for the continued conversion of some vans. This should enable us to live up to the desired conversion of passenger car charges in 2003. It is therefore appropriate to remove the basis for all changes made to the fee as a matter of course. I am probably well-founded in disagreement with Kenneth Svendsen in the post he will later keep. So that's why I'm going to say that right now, and I'm going to save you a little bit of time. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e833	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e836	It is quite enjoyable to witness all the curvatures that the Workers' Party does in terms of car and car use, but this debate and the last article reminds me a lot of a sketch that Wesenlund used to have, called the ‘Supply Council’. The husband of the soup shop like what's here, you have to look for a long time. I am very surprised why the Workers' Party should be so eager to explain to me what kind of need I have for a car. I am calling for that from the representative of the Workers' Party. Is it not I myself as a self-employed person who is going to define what kind of needs I have? You do not have to make a full landfill proposal about the size of a box to enter the car. I'm the one who's going to decide what 'cassa' is going to be, and not the representative of the Workers' Party. Can you get an explanation for these remarkable things?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e845	The President has doubts as to whether the word 'consultation' is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e848	Of course, it is the entrepreneurs themselves who are going to define what kind of vehicle they need in their business. But if they choose to buy a passenger car, which has significantly higher charges than a van, then the point is simply that they have to pay taxes for it. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e853	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e856	Usually, right-wing fights do not take on lost matters in relation to budgets. But this time I really think there's a really good reason to take a rematch, because you're now going away and changing rules just before you're going to have an entire review of the system. I can quote what the Minister of Finance wrote to us in the Financial Committee on the basis of this proposal that was promoted: «The reason for the proposal for the change in the definition of vans was that the low charges contributed to the tax-based purchase of goods cars used primarily for passenger transport.» Think of it, Hedda, that someone who drives in and out day after day prefers to drive a relatively comfortable car for business purposes, a car that also leads to lower one-off charges. These are strange rules, the Minister of Finance decides. We can't have it that way, and then he tightens up the rules. In the budget position last year, the Committee asked for a review of the entire charging system, precisely in order to achieve a better and more flexible charging system by 2003. But until then, we want to keep the existing rules. And the background for that is that you want to provide stable framework conditions for businesses, sellers and importers, and especially the conversion companies. They have been given new rules almost every year for these vans, so often these rules have been changed. But this obviously doesn't matter just there can be a few more dollars in the state treasury – in this so thin state treasury, as it is clearly, since you have to close all the tax holes as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e870	In the course of the budgetary negotiations between the Workers' Party and the Centre's Parties on the 2001 budget, it was agreed to change the definition of class 2 van. The changes included loading after 1 April 2001 of a thought box with a length of 140 cm, a width of 90 cm and a height of 105 cm. The requirement for the size of the freight compartment has led to the end of the period of requirement for the total weight of the goods car to be between 2200 and 3500 kg. On the other hand, the other requirements for class 2 vans to have a partition and one row of seats will be continued. Although a regulatory adaptation has avoided the most extreme effects of the changes, the introduction of this specific rule will lead to strange adjustments, which will lead both to more expensive commercial vehicles and to transformations which may involve a safety risk. One can see that vans are built with too high ceilings or lowered floors, so that there is room for the so-called box. This could, in some cases, lead to weight shifts, which in turn could lead to vehicle instability and thus to a safety risk. The party seeking a minimum predictability of private business. This industry also needs stable framework conditions. The constant changes in the different definitions of passenger, goods and lorries lead to problems for importers and the other sales apparatus, which may lead to job closure. In retrospect, it has also been shown that it has been done. In addition, the conversion companies are hit hard. They are either dependent on changing additions to the new rules, going down or going down. Stable framework conditions will largely result in non-compliance. Letter from the Ministry of Finance, dated 3 May 2001, states: «The reason for the proposal for the change in the definition of vans was that the low charges contributed to the tax-based purchase of goods cars used primarily for passenger transport. This was primarily the case with the station wagon variants of the vans which were an alternative to the passenger car if there is no need for the carriage of more than 2 persons.» The progress batch will claim that most of these cars are used by traders who either have a temporary need for the transport of goods with a small volume, or by sellers who carry samples with them, etc. over long distances. The former consists to a large extent of small craft companies fighting an eternal struggle to survive, not least because of the tax pressure exerted by the Workers' Party, by the socialist parties with the support of the Centre Party, on Norwegian citizens and on Norwegian business. The latter group is likely to be the largest group and the most victims of the conversion. For that group, the conversion will either lead to a more expensive job by the company having to switch to a station wagon or a more uncomfortable workplace by forcing drivers to drive in vans, which are to a lesser extent intended for long-distance driving. The working party likes to present itself as those who want to improve jobs and the working environment, among others. to avoid disease. The sellers are often exposed to stress diseases as a result of poor seating, poor roads, etc. I don't know if these parties are aware of the difference between the comfort of such a van that the socialist parties want the workers to drive around, and the type of work car that the workers will drive in. If they had taken the trouble to ask the employees, they would have received a clear answer. But it may not be so important when these workers are not organised in a LO association. The Progress Party believes that all workers are equally valuable, and we hope that everyone, regardless of their organisational ties, will have the best possible job. That is why we have also promoted this document No. The 8th proposal that Stortinget is considering today. I take up the proposal herein.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e894	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e897	I have to take the floor again in this matter. I was not the one who used the word "suppension", I referred to a sketch that was popular on TV, which Wesenlund had, and that sketch was called "supplied". In the past the reason, which the bureaucrats with good support of the Workers' Party have found out, as it says here: ‘A requirement that the box can be physically loaded into the cargo compartment could lead to difficult borderline cases where the door opening has rounded corners, hinges and other details leading to the inability of a right-angle box to be loaded’.» And this is what drives adult people! It is and will become a mystery to me, although it may not be a mystery to the representatives of the Workers' Party. They've been doing a little bit of research on these rules. They've figured out that you're going to have a condition that it's going to be a box with a length of 140 cm, a width of 90 cm and a height of 105 cm. And the representative Dalheim also says that if I am not satisfied with buying a car like this, I get to buy a passenger car and pay the fees. That's when I get totally shocked. It must be completely removed for the Workers' Party that as a self-employed person I need one day to drive goods, so I will drive and measure this box and split up the packages I want. The next day I might be driving employees. So I need two cars. I see the representative Dalheim shaking his head, but I have been a self-employed person all my life, never been a bureaucrat, never been in the Labour Party, and I will not. Has it really gone so far that it is the Workers' Party and the bureaucrats who are going to decide what I need in my work? I honestly thought you could do something else in this country. It is not nice that we have a world record in bureaucracy in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e914	Just a little walk back to reality. It is true that these vans, which the representatives of the Progress Party refer to a bit of flourishing, are practical, good-for-good cars with good comfort, which are in addition practical in order to carry the goods that a business needs to carry. But it is clear that in this country you have always faced the reality that if you want to have the comfort of driving as in a passenger car, it is a passenger car you have to buy. Then, of course, it is a separate discussion: what is the charge on a passenger car? There has therefore not been such a great distance from the Progress Party there – it might have been a bit entertaining to go back to the concrete proposals the Progress Party has had in the various years of budgetary discussions – so there is not a black and white picture here, but one has decided that in Norway a certain number of dollars should be collected from passenger cars. And then it's so simple that those who are going to buy cars, who choose to have them, have to pay the fee that the majority of the population have decided. But I will reserve myself against the description of a modern van that the party representative here draws. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e923	Then we're back in the world of fantasy again, since Dalheim was in the real world. It's so true that we're back in the world of fantasy. This is because, unfortunately, the Progress Party does not have a majority in this Chamber. On the day that the Progress Party gets a majority in this Chamber, we are in reality in the world when we want to reduce the fee vigorously. What made me take the floor was Dalheim's statement that the Progress Party did not go in to lower the tax on passenger cars, something in particular in the budgets. In fact, we almost halve the charges on cars. To give an example, I can tell the representative Dalheim that in our budgets for the last three years we have proposed to reduce the tax on the family car Chrysler Voyager by NOK 174 000 compared to the Labour Party's proposal. And it's actually like that for a family of four, who pay mortgages, housing interest, energy tax to the state, which the Workers' Party demands, and all the other fees, are NOK 174 000 very much. It is regrettable that the Labour Party does not see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e930	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3238]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e944	This Document No The 8 proposal from the Progress Party seems to be, and maybe it's also meant to be, a ritual. Both in 1995 and 1997, the proposal that bank shareholders who got their axes rated zero would receive a reasonable compensation for their losses. The Financial Committee then recommended that a review selection be set up under the leadership of Professor Eivind Smith to review the causalities of the banking crisis. The circumstances that led to the banking crisis, which resulted in a financial loss for the bank's shareholders, have been carefully examined. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs states in its position Innst. S. No 141 for 1998-99 that exceptional measures by society to deal with crises in important areas of banking are not due to the concern of the banks and their owners or add to them, but to the great harm to society as a whole if one is not able to resolve major banking crises in a satisfactory way. Speculating in axles is not risk-free. And it should be so that all the owners of the axles are aware that there is a possibility of loss resulting from this ownership. The majority in the Committee have found that this matter has been debated, examined and decided in several rounds, and that no new information has emerged that can give a different result than before. The majority of the Committee proposes that document No. 8:91 for 2000-2001 is rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e960	I registered that the representative of the Workers' Party tried to present this proposal as a ritual. But it's at least so that someone in this room is actually concerned about what happened to the 170 000 private shareholders who were hit by the state's takeover of the private banks during the banking crisis. Then the representative from the Workers' Party says that speculating in shares is not risk-free. No, I think everyone knows that. I think everyone is aware that being in the stock market can be a risky behavior. But it's going to be extremely risky if the player you might trust as stable, credible, predictable and, not least, a party with the country's inhabitants, the state, is the one who might first of all contribute to having 170 000 shareholders set their values at zero through such a process. In fact, when the Banking Law Commission had its review of this, they also concluded that there was a shameful treatment of the private shareholders that took place. As I see this, this might be the last occasion this hall has to do something about this matter. We're still facing a significant sale of bank shares by the state, and in any case, through their total commitment and sale, the state is likely to go out with a financial gain. However, regardless of whether or not the state is left with a significant financial gain, the state has a moral responsibility to settle for its highly questionable management of the banking crisis. That's why I think it's a pity that there's no majority in this room to give a compensation that, after all, should be given, based on the fact that you should take moral responsibility. In fact, 170,000 private shareholders got their shares written down to zero. Thus, the State provided for the removal of a substantial part of the wide national ownership that many small shareholders in these banks represented in their time. I shall not make this a long debate, but I will bring this up with the proposals of the Progress Party. I still hope that the bulk of the population will make sense and take moral responsibility for this scandal by granting financial compensation to the former private shareholders.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e978	Siv Jensen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e981	It is necessary to correct a few things that the representative Jensen now said, because there is hardly a matter that is so thoroughly dealt with in the Stortinget, and also independent, as this matter of the banking crisis. Let's think back to what really happened. Professor Smith also stated in his Commission report that these banks were insolvent. The point was that the bank's management had simply wasted the shareholders' money. This meant that there was no money left. The state had to go in at this time to save depositors' money. That's what you did, and I think most of them are understood to be right and wise. This case has been dealt with in Storting several times. And in particular, perhaps after Professor Smith's report was discussed in the Control and Constitutional Committee, where the conclusion was the same. So there were some banks that wasted the shareholders' money, and other banks didn't. The fact that the state suddenly had a significant portfolio of bank shares was not due to the state's willingness to buy them up, but to the private banking sector's lack of banking craftsmanship and the wish that all banks would grow into heaven, with a totally unacceptable lending growth for which there was no basis. That means that this matter has been more thoroughly dealt with both politically and professionally than almost any other matter. The Progress Party is still talking about these 170 000 shareholders. Yes, it's clear that it's a pity on these 170 000 shareholders, but it's not the Big One's responsibility. It's these banks they had shares in, that just couldn't do their banking, and that therefore became insolvent. The state actually had to go in as a saving angel. It's hard for me to understand why the Progress Party is still running and massaging about this, because this is the actual cause. It would be profoundly unreasonable if the government were to provide compensation for someone actually losing their money in shares. It would be profoundly unfair to all those who had their shares in banks that did not go bankrupt. Fortunately, there were some banks that in this very heated period of Norwegian banking history actually showed some stomach problems, and that did not actually become insolvent. And therefore, the private shareholders in these banks still have their shares, unlike those in those big ones, that went bankrupt. I hope that this exercise in the history of the Progress Party, which at best is very wrong, can now finally be scrapped. Of course, I think it is a pity that these 170 000 shareholders have lost their money, but it is not the Stortinget or the authorities' responsibility. It's simply the responsibility of the private banks, and so the state got these banks almost served in their hands after a large-scale, necessary rescue operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e998	The banking crisis and its management by the authorities have been subject to the most extensive investigation The size can take place. Parliamentary scrutiny is one of the exceptions and is rarely carried out but has been carried out in this case. The conclusion of that investigation was that there was no legal basis for compensation. Parliament cannot do more like that. The question of a moral obligation to rectify some of the damage to the private shareholders, or, to put it another way, but with the same conclusion, whether it would not have been wise at an earlier stage to invite private shareholders on favourable terms to redraw shares, or to give other advantages, has been dealt with a number of times by the Storting. The Right agrees with the Advance Party that such a form of compensation should have been granted. I believe that the proposal that is now before us from the Progress Party is an unnecessary proposal. Not because I do not agree with it – as I have said before – but because there are simply no new elements or statements from other parties that should lead to a different conclusion now. That's why I think this repetition is now really unnecessary. It may happen that you take up suggestions that have been made before, but then it is because something has happened that is a new moment in the matter, or that, for example, it is. batches previously opposed to the proposal have changed their view. Let me point to a current example: the economic cost, which was adopted in the budget last year. Not many weeks passed before parts of the majority who adopted it had changed their mind. Then we were quick to promote a proposal, so that the majority was given an opportunity to express their opinion. So this isn't a general expression that you can't take up proposals again, but then there has to be something in the political environment, an opinion or the like, that can make it probable that it is. If not, Document No. 8 proposals really just kind of ritual, and then I think in many ways you're ruining the institute, if I can express it in all respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1005	That right now they're going to vote for something they're for, get the right answer for themselves. What made me take the floor was the representative of Djupedal's history of what actually happened, and the attempt to present it as if he felt sorry for all these shareholders, but that, after all, it was not the fault of this hall. Then I want to remember that what actually happened was that the share capital of the three largest commercial banks was written down to zero. And this happened on the basis of a very controversial special law that was adopted in the autumn of 1991. It was a kind of expropriation law that allowed the government to take over banks in crisis by writing down the share capital to zero, without going the way of public administration. Then this law was passed after a very quick procedure, which enabled the Government to write down the share capital. Thus, the private shareholders did not receive any deductions for their losses, which they would have been entitled to after the tax reform if the government had waited for the write-down to the end of the year. Shareholders who could define their interests in banks as ‘shares in industry’ were also deducted in full under the old tax rules. So the government made sure that all these private shareholders, who were primarily small shareholders, were deprived of all their share values without loss deduction on the basis of a special law, which granted the right to expropriation without compensation. That's a pretty significant part of the history description, as I think it's okay to bring it with you when you evaluate this question. That's also why I raised the question of moral responsibility in this case, because this very controversial special law was adopted here, which was also given retroactive effect, despite the fact that there was a tax reform that added something quite different. It was very special. As a result, all shareholders were not given the right to deduct their losses. So you can ask yourself, does this room have nothing to do with it? Or does it have it? My clear claim is that this hall has helped many of these shareholders feel cheated. There have been written books on this matter, and the fact that many have called it the biggest bank account in the past, I am very close by agreeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1014	Writing books on a matter does not necessarily mean that the author of the book is right. There are few issues that have been dealt with as thoroughly as this case. And if it really was like this special law that the Stortinget passed, was contrary to current legislation and legislation, the investigation commission that the Stortinget put down, under the direction of Professor Eivind Smith, would have concluded differently than it actually did. This was an independent audit commission that Stortinget exceptionally put down. It happens once in a while, but very rarely. Of course, if the representative Jensen's history was really correct, it would have appeared in that report. It didn't. I ask myself, what would be the alternative to the Storting adopting a special law to ensure that these three banks did not go bankrupt? Well, would the consequences be significant ring-effects to the Norwegian community, too? That's why the Storting in a hasty operation had to recover what was left of a banking system that had played itself down. This is a strange proposal from a party which generally respects the free forces of the market and the excellence of the market. In fact, the market has worked very well here according to the recommendation of the Progress Party, but the bank managers did not do their job, they could not do the banking trade. Then the bankruptcy, which unfortunately happens then and water because there are managements that are not good enough, that are not good enough. That's actually the situation as it was. The rescue operation of the Storting has, as I said, been carefully examined, and it has been concluded that the accumulation and government did so, was correct and not contrary to anything, either by regulation or by law at the time. This I think most people in retrospect will see was right. So the alternative would have been far worse for the Norwegian community. We get hope it's the last time the Progress Party does this exercise, because this chapter is definitely written; this book is really definitely closed a long time ago. And I must say that, sir. Foss" last comment, that there is abuse of Document No. The 8-institution to present this kind of proposal is a point of view that I fully agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1025	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 3238]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1039	Document No The 8 proposal from Lars Sponheim and Terje Johansen on the development of Norwegian financial industry raises relatively important questions. The Committee is concerned that a strong Norwegian financial industry should have international competitiveness and that Norwegian business should have access to risk capital. It is important that the Norwegian financial industry has a competitive framework compared to other countries. I think there's reason to stress that from the government's side, there have been several proposals that have been associated with developments in the Norwegian financial environment. I can refer to private collective pensions in working conditions, which will lead to increased capital accumulation, which can benefit the Norwegian financial industry. The size of the stock market in 2000 will deal with new stock exchange laws, and while we are dealing with this issue here today, Odelstinget will deal with a matter of derivatives trading. These are major and important issues, which have an impact on the financial environment in Norway. The members of the Centre Party would like to discuss the framework conditions for the development of the Norwegian financial industry together, while the majority of the Committee – Labour Party, Right and Advance Party – believes that a roll-out message on actions for the development of the Norwegian financial industry will be of little use and actually delay some of the processes that are now taking place quite quickly from the Government’s side. The majority of the Committee therefore proposes that the document be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1052	The Progress Party agrees with the proposers that a strong Norwegian financial industry with international competitiveness is important for future growth and industrial development in Norway, but we disagree with the proposers that a big message could do something about it. The biggest mistake that has been made politically in Norway in relation to the Norwegian financial industry is not to take it seriously. Over several years from the industry itself, there has been a need for changes in the framework conditions in order to make the Norwegian financial industry more competitive, without the majority having shown a willingness to follow up. Instead, we have seen repeated examples of the fact that the bulk of the population has ended up being particularly surprised by mergers and mergers that are not liked for various reasons. One important measure for this industry was the final appointment of the Competition Board. It wasn't easy to get to it either, but when it finally came, some of the sample's conclusions actually came out productively. Therefore, it is now important that the Government has followed this up as soon as possible, so that the process is not delayed further. In my opinion, we are already too late. This is why we still face relatively chaotic situations related to merger issues and other formations of alliances in the financial industry – so the necessary, sufficient framework conditions have not been drawn up in advance. The ongoing structural change is driven by market conditions. Moreover, it is not desirable for the public to interfere more closely than is strictly necessary in the interests of competition or economic soundness. Then again: a call to the Government to follow up the Competition Board's setting as soon as possible. I hope the finance minister notices this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1063	I share the impatience of the proposers in establishing the framework conditions for the Norwegian financial industry that are competitive vis-à-vis the EU and our neighbouring countries. It has been distributed for too long, both by the Government of Bondevik and by the Government of Stoltenberg, in relation to the presentation of proposals that bring about a level playing field and a level playing field vis-à-vis the rest of the world. Because it is a fact that some non-resident financial corporations in Norway operate with better conditions in some areas than the corresponding Norwegian does. The right has contributed on several occasions to setting time limits for different governments to both advance the work of the Banking Commission's suspension in order not to send unnecessary proposals for investigation but actually take a stand, and to arrive at the necessary decisions in the form of proposals to follow up the suspension of the Competition Board. A down-to-earth message about this will be delayed. We don't need any more messages with general 'talk', if I'm allowed to use that expression, but we need propositions with proposals for decisions. Therefore, a message is a siding that is only delayed. If the idea were to be to get a message about the structure of the financial industry, I think that message must come quickly – on fire – if there is any particular structure left to discuss. Our experience is more and more that the structure defined after long-term processing of large-scale messages, with associated settings and crash debates, is very often outdated at the moment the settings are released. I am sure that the representative Terje Johansen has also attended such events in the 1990s. In any case, I record from the press that when you are reminded of your own positions from the 1990s, having big-time messages does not help in your memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1072	I am pleased to note that it seems that it is a majority in favour of bringing to an end the discussions on the framework conditions of the financial industry in the near future. However, when the centre parties choose to maintain the proposal for their own notification, it has nothing to do with us wanting to delay this. On the contrary, we want to see a whole in this that we don't think comes through the individual decisions that we are faced with in the future. What is happening in Norway is that we are now transforming our oil assets into financial assets. Norway is becoming a financial power. We were able in our time to create an industry out of oil, and the Left also wants to look at the possibilities of creating an industry out of financial wealth. When the majority refuses to discuss this, we just get to take note of it. I agree with the representative Foss that we do not need to discuss the structure of the financial industry now. There the politicians and the Storting will always be in arrears, which, in my opinion, is not the worst thing that happens. Moreover, it has now come so far that it looks like the market has amassed this terrain, so that politicians don't have to worry about the structure in the future, with a few exceptions that I'm not going to get into right now. I then record that the majority is opposed to a comprehensive treatment of this, but I will, on behalf of the minority, present the minority's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1083	Terje Johansen has mentioned the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3238]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1099	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3238]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1113	The called alternate for Oslo, Heikki Holmås, has now taken the seat. The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1127	During the debate, Per-Kristian Foss presented a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to investigate and propose new depreciation rates, based on the rates in other countries and on the economic lifetime of the assets. The amendments shall be implemented with effect for the 2001 income year.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1154	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Bastesen, proposal No. 2, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Representative of Bastisen First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit annually to the Stortinget a report on the activities of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, and Norway’s vote and other efforts in them.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1175	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a plan for Norway’s international work to introduce a levy on foreign exchange transactions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1202	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Erna Solberg, on behalf of the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen, on proposal No. 2, from Per Erik Monsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that compensation for VAT paid to municipalities and county councils in the purchase of certain services be extended to all purchases of services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1225	The proposal by the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen is being taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to extend the VAT compensation scheme to municipalities and county councils when purchasing certain services to cover the purchase of all services. The Government further requests the Government to take the necessary steps to ensure that compensation for VAT to municipalities and county councils when purchasing certain services from registered traders is paid directly to the institution/budget unit which has acquired the service.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1252	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Erik Dalheim, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 2, from Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the amendment of the one-off motor vehicle charge regulations so that the charge is only levied for the initial registration of the vehicle.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1275	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘Document No. 8:78 [[2000-2001]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1299	During the debate, Mr Djupedal put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:86 [[2000-2001]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1321	During the debate, Ms Solberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to reintroduce the arrangements for the acquisition of parts of the corporation tax by municipalities and county councils.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1348	During the debate, Mr Svendsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to abolish the adopted change in the definition of goods car class 2 so that no requirements are imposed as to the size of the freight space.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1370	During the debate, Siv Jensen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that former private shareholders, who were removed in the context of the banking crisis, receive financial compensation from the State.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1392	During the debate, Terje Johansen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a wholesale notification with measures for the development of the Norwegian financial industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28.ana.ud2381e1430	There is no record.
