ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e36	The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e39	On behalf of the big business representatives Per Erik Monsen, Øyvind Korsberg, Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, I would like to suggest that we speed up the tax reduction on petrol adopted from 1 July 2001 to 1 March 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e44	The representative of Terje Johansen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e47	On behalf of the major representatives of Terje Johansen, Odd Einar Dørum and Lars Sponheim, I propose to turn Norway's agricultural high school into «Green University».
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e52	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e73	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet Bjørn Tore Godal, Jørgen Kosmo and Siri Bjerke for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main question, from the representative of Ingvald Godal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e82	I would like to ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: The state councils have now, at several conditions, painted out with wide pen the major problems our defenses have today. There is a broad deal about that issue, but I think the Minister of Defense has been jumping over one of the main reasons why it is so bad, and it is that in the whole of the 1990s, the Labour Party has never, not once, followed up its own long-term plans and its long-term plans in the annual budgets. If the Labour Party had done this, they would have received the Subsidiary support of the Right, and so we would have been in favour of the Defence, and we would have had the defence-policy agreement that many people are talking about. My question is: what can we now expect the Minister of Defence to do in order to get his way in his own party?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e91	I'm afraid even with the Right Defence Budget, our current defense would be in crisis. In fact, if we are to maintain the current structure of defence, the annual defence budgets should be about 50 pst. higher than they are today. This is not because defence ministers or heads of defence have suddenly become dumber than before, but it is because of the underlying assumptions in terms of price growth, investment costs, foreseen savings – all this has largely not been done. And even if you had come out on a higher level, cf. Right-hand alternative state budgets, we'd probably just extended the stick rather than solve the problems. However, it has not been said that it is not a problem that we have removed ourselves from the ground through the annual budgetary procedures, in the sense that we have fallen below the framework requirements of the long-term programme in force at all times, but no worse than Norway being on the average of the European NATO countries. So it's not that bad, and you can ask the question, is there any reason to think that we should be much higher than the average of the European NATO countries? So to the extent that there's an accusation against the Workers' Party and the Center Parties here, I would say, we're not so bad at the landscape as to the ability and the will of our society to bet. But then I agree with my name brother that it is a goal to ensure that we get more stable and predictable conditions over the next four years. That is why we have now promoted a long-term proposition for Stortinget, which the representative is given full opportunity to influence more than many others, which contains a package of organisational measures, along with an economic level. And then we're venturing the idea of a defence policy settlement, where the parties on the Stortinget can be expected to enter into a binding agreement on the budgetary level for four years. It is a technique that has served well in Denmark. I believe that we have a lot to learn both there and elsewhere, and this is a positive response to the representative's invitation when it comes to a different and more long-term course.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e100	One can say a lot about this. But the main point here is that when Stortinget sets a plan, one must follow up with the annual budgets if we are to avoid misinvestment and re-enter into what we are today. If one doesn't follow up that way in the future, it'll only be a matter of short time before we're in the same mess, but at a much lower level, where we can barely talk about having a defense at all. At last year's budget, this was very topical with the pilot situation. We did something about it then, but we're still getting messages about pilots who's been outstretched and slinged, and don't get flights. We see in the papers that only a fraction of our aircraft can be used for the purpose. Although the pilots have also said that they are willing to participate internationally, there is only one fraction that is operating in a proper way, despite the fact that we have spent billions updating our flights. This is totally unsustainable. I want to ask the Council of State if he will now make sure to correct this, which the Storting was very busy last fall, and present the necessary budgetary changes in connection with the revised national budget to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e107	The current year’s budget is not a major contribution to solving the defence problems — on the contrary, it is the last of the old-fashioned defence budgets. It's the ones we have to abolish, and we have to abolish that by taking a new combined grip, which we've invited the Stortinget to take in the spring session, so that we just have money at the pointed end of the defense, to keep planes in the air, to keep the vessels out of the sea and not to dry up on the emergency storage. I made it quite clear in the presentation of this year's budget that this year's budget is the last of the old, self-burdening budgets before we get to the necessary steps for, among other things. to address some of the challenges faced by the representative of Ingvald Godal both today and in the past. But without this overall grip, it doesn't hold to subsidize any tens of millions of dollars. It's a trick on an old defense that's ripe for fall. We have to take a new joint approach to create a better defense for the future, and then we'll see what we can do through the year compared to the last of the old-fashioned defence budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e112	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e115	It is well clear that a new collective grip must at least be something more than a ‘gathering on the bench’, which gives the impression that the government’s arrangement is now. Last weekend, the Minister of Defense gave an interview to the evening post, where his points and reasons for reducing defence as strongly as he is now doing are that there is no invasion hazard now. Doesn't the Minister of Defense have a problem with the target? Isn't the point of the Defense that it has to be able to cover up situations that can change quickly and unexpectedly? Isn't the whole story of the last century the history of the rapidly changing assumptions to which it was not possible to guess in advance? Does not the Minister of Defense agree that he simply came a little wrong out of the interview he gave last weekend?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e120	No, I don't agree with that. But yes, I agree that defence consists in preparing for the unforeseen. My main point of view, which emerges from the interview, but not the headline, is as follows: April 9 is a less likely scenario in the next few years than many of the other imminent threats the defense is facing. That is why, like all other NATO countries, we need to plan for a broader set of challenges. We cannot build up the defence so far that we cannot rebuild a wider mobilization defence than we have today, but we also have a wide range of other challenges that we are too poor to address, cf. The ability to deal with more limited attacks, sovereignty monitoring and resource enforcement in our large seas, ‘Course’, Kosovo — all NATO countries are now planning for a broader set of challenges than just waiting for the invasion from the east. I don't think it's that stupid, because there's a lot of evidence that at least it doesn't materialize with the first. But of course we're not going to lose our ability, we're going to have that ability in the future, and I'm referring to the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e126	Lars Rise – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e129	I understand that on the Council of States he is interested in a wide-ranging defence policy settlement – it was also expressed here – and that one wants a majority behind the proposition that is now presented to the Stortinget. The question was also raised at the press conference of the Council of State on Friday. He was then asked by a journalist about how he thought he would get a majority for this proposition, especially with reference to Bondevik's critical comments just before. The council then replied that he had had very close contact with the defence spokespersons and had had conversations, so he felt confident that a majority behind the proposals in this proposition would be obtained. I would like to ask: Where and when have these conversations taken place, and who has he been having conversations with?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e134	The last one is not a correct quote. I have said that the proposition is based on the attitude of the Defence Policy Selection, where all the parties are represented, and the grips proposed in the proposition are largely based on the recordings of the sample that the Bondevik government put down – profitably enough, although I have to admit that I belonged to the critics. In addition, we are based on the military-disciplinary input from the Defence Study. So the surprise shown by some speakers in relation to the proposition must in that case be matched by an equal surprise at the attitude of the Defence Policy Committee this summer, with broad cross-political participation, and the Defence Study. But that's a matter for itself. I believe, however, that through the discussions I have had in the committee – not with defence-policy spokespersons, but in the committee – we have had the impression of an understanding of a new great conspiracy in terms of the conversion to a better and more forward-looking defence, and I do not think any of the comments that have been made, either by the representative Bondevik or others, stand in the way of such a consensus. On the contrary, I see it as an invitation to a settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e139	Ågot Valle – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e142	I have a follow-up question for the Minister for the Environment. Here we are today, and we will experience, a drive from other parties to increase the defence budget. The draft resolution on defence outlines an increase in the budget of 875 million. kr in the year in relation to the year's budget, and it is before the negotiations with the other parties. So here you can imagine the demands of new billions, and also the impact. Most people agree that one of the major security challenges is the environmental challenges – and I assume that the Minister of Defence also agrees, at least he has said so – and some of them are in Kola. According to Bellona, 18 is pst. by the active nuclear reactors of the world at Kola. My question then is: will it not be an advantage for Norwegian environmental security and therefore our total security that the Minister for the Environment is getting extra defence money, which is needed to contribute to the cleaning up of Kola, instead of using them to get some extra defence billions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e151	Who will answer this question, Ministers will have to decide between them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e154	Maybe we can put a duet here and answer both of them! Of course, we have a total balance of what we spend on funding under the programme areas of defence and environmental protection, and although I can confirm that there are sometimes drawn struggles between state councils, the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Defence will not stand here and distribute money in the spontaneous question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e161	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e164	The question goes to the Minister of Defence. In the long-term proposition recently presented, as is well known, the Government recommends significant changes to the defence concept and recommends a dramatic reduction in the war structure. The objective of anti-invasion capacity in one part of the country and balanced defence in another is stated. Instead, Norway, one of the richest countries in the world, is to appear before our allies as the country with more military musical orps than armies. The government's attempt to justify such disarmament is being made by lifting the threat of invasion in Norwegian territory in the coming years. In my opinion, this is a very doubtful exercise. In a long-standing ‘Never more than 9 April’ country, it seems irresponsible once again to insist that predictive external governance is the foundation of our defence and security policy. What guarantees will the Government provide that their PEACE in our time strategy has a sufficiently long shelf-life?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e173	The tempting counter-question could be: does Norway have a different analysis of these issues from our allies at the Government? The answer is no. We have an exact parallel analysis. Either I talk to the US Secretary of Defense, the British, the German or the French, they say, "It's less likely now with the big invasion." We have many other challenges that are much bigger. And they're actually saying the same thing in Moscow. They're not planning for the invasion of Moscow. They work together in NATO on a wide range of other security and military challenges that are much more burning, and I mentioned someone in the answer to the previous question. So that doesn't mean we're going to ignore being able to face a new Hitler again, but it's less likely than before, at least in the first few years. There's no reason to be offended by that. But all the analyses in NATO are based on that. On the other hand, we see the opportunities for conflict to spread in our part of the world as well, cf. Balkans. Two world wars began in our own continent. We must have a capacity to resist that kind of conflict by conducting conflict prevention, peacekeeping and peace-building operations. 90 pst. of the wars of our time are intermarriage wars, not attacks where one nation takes another, at least not in our part of the world. I'm not saying we can ignore it, but we can't put all the eggs in a basket and just have a big invasion defense. We must have a capacity to meet the other challenges, too, in our near sea areas, to deal with ‘Course’, whether it should arise again, the ability to interact with our allies in Kosovo, the ability to stand up to the UN, the ability to counter-terrorist actions, the ability to secure our oil installations – all this requires capacities other than just to prepare the invasion. I'm not saying we're going to ignore it, but it's an assessment of what we're facing that makes us have to have a nuanced defense. Our analysis, as some have said, is militaryly objectionable, is exactly the same analysis that is being carried out in NATO today. It is in the Defence Study, and it is in the Defence Policy Selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e180	It doesn't seem very convincing to me. We have countries like this. Belgium, Holland and Luxembourg, which are rusting down, just like what we're doing. I have some understanding of that. But we have other countries we can point to. We have e.g. Turkey and Greece – they don't. So this is a truth with modifications in my opinion. The proposition says for the rest less aircraft, fewer boats, fewer brigades, and gives a detailed indication of when to build up. If we find ourselves in a situation where we have to rest up again, what plan and timing we're talking about, for example. acquisition of new material? And to what extent can the Government now guarantee the help of NATO when we ourselves do nothing about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e188	In fact, we're not proposing to cut the defense budget, we're proposing to increase it slightly. So it falls on its own unreasonableness to say that we put down the defense. But we are proposing to transform Defence in order to get a better defence against the challenges we face, both in the longer term, in the short term and in the medium term. Should the invasion ghost be there, the NATO alliance is today the strongest military alliance in the world. Everyone is aware of that. Everyone says that. Russia is far down in terms of a large number of capacities compared to what they had a few years ago, but they can of course build them up again. But NATO is a much stronger alliance today, relatively speaking, than ever in the post-war period in relation to all kinds of potential challenges. And if therefore the invasion comes, which in the short term is the madness of someone to set in motion, then NATO is there as a guarantor. And there's no reason to believe that, in the light of the defence plans, NATO is going to build up its commitment to Norway, on the contrary, NATO has given its support to the transition, and the representative should notice that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e195	There will be follow-up questions – Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e198	I've been on this before. Eight years ago, we had a treatment of another defence plan based on the suspension of the Defence Commission, which made changes to the concept at that time. That's the concept we've had for the defense in the last eight years. At that time a large national compromise was also made to ensure that at least that defence could be realised. It was exactly six months after the majority had adopted it, until the Workers' Party presented its first draft budget and that compromise was broken by the systematic undercutting of the Labour Party's defence needs in order to realise the current concept. My question to the Council of State is: with what credibility is the Labour Party now inviting a new settlement about a new political concept when the first thing they did was to undermine the current concept by not following the necessary allocation needs and systematically doing so over the eight years?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e205	With respect to reporting: this has not been the case before, because now we are doing something completely different. We are presenting an overall package of a wide range of concrete proposals for changes to the structure that the Stortinget is then invited to adopt, which will govern the four-year period. This is one important difference in relation to what we did last time. At that time, the general order had a description of a structure in a notice. So it's attached to the protocol. Then you have annual allocation discussions. It's with respect to report a way to undermine the defense. Now we get an overall package with a structure and an economic level and, in addition, probably a defence policy settlement that is binding on the parties, if the parties will, according to Danish pattern, and how the settlement can only be waived if all parties agree on it. It works in Denmark. Why shouldn't it work here? It's just the experiences Erna Solberg refers to, and not just because of the Workers' Party and the non-will of the middle parties, as it's called, but a lot of other structural conditions, which now make us choose a different technique and have a whole new setup.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e210	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e213	I have a question to Kosmo State Council. NHO wants a simple, transparent and nutritious Norway, and the Christian People's Party understands that they are impatient. We have 60 laws and 1,000 regulations only within health, the environment and security, and one has ten departments and 21 levels at the central level, as well as those out in the state that upholds these laws. This can affect both health and the economy in small businesses. Can't do this legally, I'm sure you'll take the rest of the planning and building laws. It is not obvious that there will be a lack of health or safety of an unbridled bureaucratic law — on the contrary. Therefore, the Bondevik government is launching the ‘Simplifying Norway’ project, with a focus on simplification and the fight against the form field. Now this has stopped or been very late, because the government of Stoltenberg obviously does not give priority to this important work, all according to the NHO. Does the Council of State Jørgen Kosmo act to scrape important parts of the clearing work in the form field?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e222	No, I don't intend to scrape anything. The good proposals contained in ‘Simplify Norway’ are to be followed up. So we're going to do it systematically. We go through all the rules and cut out the rules that are relevant to cutting out. But we're also concerned with another reality. We are concerned with the system that produces all of these rules, which neither the business community, the municipalities nor the population ultimately manages to bear. If you want to do something about excessive regulation in this country, you also have to be willing to do something about the system that produces these rules. That's why, in addition to having the single rule in focus, we also have a focus on getting system changes. In turn, Stortinget will be presented with organisational issues, but also issues that go on structural changes in order to better facilitate this for the modern future. So the representative can be quite certain that we have a significant focus on this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e227	I would like to thank you for your answer. I very much agree with the Council that the fight against the system is an important fight, but I want to be a little bit more concrete. AAD, its Department of State, is responsible for improving information and facilitating users. After creating a poster on language proficiency, this project has been completed without the adoption of any further decisions. Is it true that the Council of State does not believe that languages and information from the public to ordinary people are good enough now? The other thing I want to mention is that AAD is also responsible for providing users with a service statement. According to the Bondevik government, that service statement should be completed by the end of 2000. Now we write February, and the project is still on, but no one knows how far it's coming. This project is very important for the holders of the public and for the common man to know what he can demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e236	I'm a little unsure where the questioner wants to go. I believe that all the major service-producing state budgets such as social security, equality, labour market – those that actually produce services in relation to the population – are up-to-date with their work on service declarations. If there's someone who's still hanging, and of course I'm going to check it out, we're going to try to get it on the right track. We have followed up on the intention from the previous government that all these floors should be based on service statements. But then I have to say that it's actually more important what the agencies do than what they say they're going to do through these service statements. Then there is a crucial need for us, for example. on health, environment and safety, is able to achieve a much closer integration of the various and diverse inspections we have, so that we get a common umbrella and a common action. We don't have that today. Today, too many people operate within the pure sector interests. It's a hard job, but we have to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e243	There will be follow-up questions – Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e246	Once the Minister of Labour and Administration has been given responsibility for the further simplification work, I think there will certainly be a good job in improving the efficiency of public administration systems. I trust Kosmo will take care of it. But simplification work, as the government of Bondevik looked at this, is about much more than that. It is about how everyday life is going to be easier for each individual enterprise, for each individual citizen, social-security beneficiary, etc. There is now evidence that the government does not follow up here. The NHO has recently presented a report that says that out of 45 large simplification projects that would simplify everyday life for individuals, nine have been implemented. Seven were completed at the government change, two quite quickly afterwards. 26 is scraped by the 36 that remain, by the new government. Of these, 24 were on the way when the government of Bondevik left almost a year ago. There are documented projects for projects, such as: is about the reorganisation of regulations, of which the companies relate to 12,000, and of which Kosmo State Council can now address if he wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e252	We've taken care of it. But I have to say that I feel more confident about the surveys and reports I get from the individual department than about the report that the NHO has produced. I've read that report, and I'm obviously busy taking all that NHO says, seriously. But I think that the Stortinget will see, once the Stortinget has dealt with the new hospital reform, a relatively large revolution in both the number of supervision and the number of regulations affecting the health page of Norwegian administration and what has a practical significance primarily for the individual patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e257	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e260	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Administration. The government has seen high targets for improving efficiency, modernising and renewing the public sector. The center party thought it was exciting and perceived it as a follow-up of measures that the center government had all seen going on. Now it turns out that the Workers' Party's arrangement is a huge centralization. Etat, Equation Council, Police and Judiciary Structure, State overtaking of hospitals, signaling a new municipal structure – all pointing in the same direction. After the evening post of 19 February, the attention of the election campaign is to be shifted from Kosmo's renewal project to other matters. Does this mean that the Government is now taking over the monthly turmoil that is not only among those adding it to it, but also in relation to the security that exists in many communities when it comes to what kind of supply they can actually stay to?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e271	In connection with this year's budget, I explained in the Ministry of Labour and Administration's budget proposal that one of the main steps we are taking in terms of renewal is to move resources from administrative and bureaucracy to service production. And service production is known in all the municipalities of the country. That is, the growth we're going to have in public enterprises is going to be in the municipalities. But when we say that we're going to move resources from administration and bureaucracy, that means that there are some jobs that have to disappear, otherwise, frankly, this becomes just a toy. These posts will disappear centrally, they will disappear in regions, and they will disappear at county level. But the point is that this resource use is going to increase service production, not in the central administration of Oslo, but in the individual municipality. There is a need for service production, whether in the field of health, care or in what areas it is. Then we're going to have a period when a number of communities that have large government administrations, obviously get trouble dealing with the transition phase. Then we have to be willing, hopefully with the consent of Storting, to move out some state agencies to the districts that are then affected. And we're going to suggest that, and I hope that the Storting is willing to follow up and join in.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e280	With the signals given so far, there are a lot of people in many communities who don't feel safe that services are getting better. Services disappear, and there is a greater distance between the services provided and those to be provided. Another important issue is the freeing up of labour that Kosmo now had, and the type of labour that is being released. Because here's actually a signal that means that when there's going to be more mail in the store and the store in the mail, and when there's going to be conversions in other areas, it's focused on the 60-year-olds. At 60 years, plus/minus, an evil one is out. Then it's not about new tasks, it's just about how you can activate up to 62 years. Will Kosmo use modernisation to give the 60-year-olds new opportunities, or will he use it to make more people disappear with his experience and competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e287	I will actually go a little further than the representative Meltveit Kleppa does, «up to 62 years». There's no reason to push people out of work because if they're 62 years old, as long as they have the opportunity and the desire to continue working for 67 years, or for that matter for 70. Clearly, we need to focus significantly more on how to make use of the capacity, employment and work capacity of the older population. And the state is going to try to help us, through the conversion projects that we are going to carry out and that we have to implement, also facilitate the demand for older workers in the future market. But of course, I do not have any ambitions about or believe that a 62-year-old lawyer can automatically go into nursing work. We therefore need to pay great attention to the reform of continuing education and training, which gives people the opportunity to both change and increase their competences in order to meet the challenges of the future in both the public and private sectors in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e292	There will be follow-up questions – Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e295	In contrast to the representative of Meltveit Kleppa and the Central Party, the Progress Party looks forward to the more efficient and reforming of the public sector that has been set up by the Council of State. We've recorded that the Council of State has gone so far as to say that if he doesn't get this done, it means his departure, and that's kind of putting himself on the track pretty high. We see that this should have a better impact on users in terms of better public services and services. Everyone has that as their purpose. My question to the Council of State is in line with what the representative Meltveit Kleppa also asked about: Does the Stortinget get proposals for action before the election campaign, or will they preferably come after the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e300	The size will receive a lot of suggestions before the election campaign, proposals that have to be taken into consideration during the spring. The Minister of Defence has put forward a serious reorganization proposal for the Defence, some of which is actually a major effort to reduce administration and bureaucracy – in a very big way. It's going to be interesting to see if the Storting is willing to follow it up, because it's a renewal act that's quite significant. And it's not just the central administration in Oslo, it's also the different administrative units associated with this around the country. There are opportunities to do things in a much easier way in the future and to obtain labour resources instead of administration and bureaucracy. The size is given suggestions in the case of hospitals – you get it before the election campaign – in the case of division of duties, etc. There will be a number of major, heavy issues in the spirit of the renewal project that will be dealt with in the Stortinge in ours. I hope we get them through.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e305	Anne Enger Lahnstein – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e308	I have stated in the past that I have great faith that the Kosmo Council of State is precisely going to be able to carry out part of this renewal work that we see is necessary. Now he said sail the hospital reform and actually called it a revolution. What we now see is happening in the hospital sector and in the health sector related to the implementation of this reform, I would think Jørgen Kosmo alerted some. And that's really my question. As late as today, we are told that the majority in Akershus is opposed to this reform at political level, and it is also true that the trade union movement in the various areas is concerned that this is moving too fast. I guess there's no area that's more complex than the hospital sector. Transferring the hospital sector to the state – I disagree with it – also involves a complexity that I would challenge the Council of State to say a little about how he thinks he will handle, and whether he is comfortable with the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e314	I am comfortable with the situation, because the Stortinget will be presented with a proposal for a law on how this large, gigantic and necessary system change in the Norwegian health system should be. This legislative proposal will form the basis for the future organisation of the hospital sector in Norway. So the Storting gets ample opportunity to go into both the details and, hopefully, the big, transparent approaches that we have to take into account patients in this country. And to me, the fact is, the need to get a proper patient treatment on account of the different trade unions in the individual hospital sectors. That they are now fighting their fight, we must respect that. But when the law is put in place in Stortinget, there will be a series of follow-up negotiations that will have to be done in relation to employees’ organisations, and those negotiations will be the first to be based on what serves the interests of Norwegian patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e319	Last follow-up question – Jon Lilletun.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e322	I have, like many others, had great confidence in the grips that the Kosmo Council has seen in order to defuse the consumer, to defuse the public, instead of having a bureaucratic approach. But what he said in these last two rounds, that he has more confidence in feedback from the ministry than in a report that might have been produced by the NHO, was quite unlikely. In principle, the users outside must say that when a thorough investigation takes place, it is actually more important than any feedback that the programme receives that is purely bureaucratic. So I hope it was a communication from the government, and that the approach to the government is that there are the users out there to the right, not primarily the feedback from an internal system. I want a follow-up on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e327	Of course, it's the users we're interested in. This applies not only to users related to the NHO, but also to users related to consumer organisations and a number of other organisations that at all levels are trying to represent the proportion of the population who from time to time feel that they are being strangled by public bureaucracy. Of course we should listen to them. But the NHO in this investigation has been very concerned about the individual rule and too little of the system that produces the rules that we can't handle. So we're going to engage in a real dialogue with the NHO on how we're going to deal with this, and we're going to systematically get rid of unnecessary regulations and rules. The representative can be quite sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e332	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e335	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment. A few days ago, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change presented an interim report showing that climate change is much faster than previously assumed and that global warming is much faster than previously assumed. It also shows that the consequences for both countries and developing countries are far more dramatic than previously assumed, both in terms of sea level and storms, in terms of hunger, and in terms of how to produce food. In short, it is a very dramatic report presented by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. This government has so far taken climate issues particularly seriously. You can sum up by saying that this government, among other things. In order to reduce petrol taxes, green taxes have not been phased in, as previously assumed, the recent transport plan — and adopted — has not sufficiently taken into account public transport, leading to increased car use, and at the top of all, this Government will also have gas power plants. My question to the Minister for the Environment is very brief: Does the Minister for the Environment feel that she has had an impact on environmental issues and climate issues in this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e344	The climate challenge is our biggest environmental challenge. Therefore, the signals from the research now emerging internationally through the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change are alarming but important. Research itself will help to make countries more aware of the scale and extent of the climate challenge. For this reason, this government has placed so much emphasis on work both nationally and internationally, primarily in order to establish an international agreement in the field of climate change. It will be absolutely necessary because the use of instruments in this area will be so extensive that the combined use of instruments by many countries is essential for industry, industry and the economic sectors to live up to them. At the same time, as part of the preparatory work in this area, each country must make national preparations. That's what the government is now doing, and we're going to present to the Storting this spring – a follow-up to our commitments to the Kyoto agreement and how we see an instrument use nationally towards the entry into force of the agreement, and we're going to assume that we have an agreement in place by 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e349	There is no problem in agreeing that it was a major step backwards that no agreement was reached on the international climate obligations, but at the same time Norway has not taken any action during the last year pointing in such a direction. One thing is that you have to give a big message to the spring, where you are likely to have a lot of commendable talk about what you intend to do, but you have on a number of different roadblocks the opportunity to take action – which you have chosen not to do. As a result, Norway, together with the United States and perhaps a few other countries, is now further away from achieving the targets set in the Kyoto agreement than we were at the time of the Kyoto negotiations. And that means that it's going to be dramatic instruments for the ordinary Norwegian consumer, for the ordinary Norwegian industry and for business, if we're going to be close to achieving the Kyoto agreement's objectives, which, after all, are relatively modest. For the last climate report, the Kyoto agreement's objectives are, of course, insufficient. In the next hundred years, there will be much greater changes in the climate than you've ever thought. So that means you actually have to go in with dramatic instruments. This is not enough, for example. to reduce petrol taxes, it is simply necessary to take a large, comprehensive approach to society. Does that mean that this minister has actually intended to propose to the Storting as extensive a grip as this climate report requires?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e354	I share the assessment that there are dramatic grips that need to be taken to solve the climate problems. This is precisely why it is so important that several countries join forces on these challenges, because if not, they will not be able to take action alone in each country. Norway shares the climate challenge with most countries. The difference between today's emissions and the country-by-country emissions is going down under the Kyoto agreement, which will be the first step in climate action, is about the same for Norway as for other countries. However, Norway has some special advantages that we should pay particular attention to by putting up a commitment to technology, especially on the gas side, so that we can use gas in several areas in Norway and can eventually develop a technology and be at the forefront of further processing of gas in Norway that is CO2 free.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e359	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e362	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. The Council of State and the Left have previously had a common commitment to the emissions of Sellafield. As most people know, among other things, The release of the radioactive substance technetium — according to the information I have from the environmental movement — could lead to five to ten years' time, among others. crab and lobster could not be edible on the south coast if you cannot stop this. So my question to the Council of State is -- since she last had this question in Stortinget, among other things. by Mr Kvassheim: What has she done to the British and, in particular, to her British colleague in order to present the Norwegian reactions and the Norwegian protests on the emissions that are taking place?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e370	I share the concern of the representative Dørum about the radioactive emissions from the Sellafield plant to the North Sea. There has been a strong commitment to this issue in Norway for a long time. What I have done in the last few days and weeks is to re-examine this issue with my British colleague, the UK Environment Minister, Michael Meacher. I have mentioned that from the Norwegian side, we believe it is unacceptable if the UK Government now takes on the proposal that is one of the alternatives now proposed by the UK environmental authorities for the Sellafield plant until 2006. The Minister for the Environment has assured me that he is working for an alternative which means that we arrive at emissions much faster than the technical environmental authorities in the United Kingdom recommend. This will also be followed up. I have also raised this issue at Nordic level with the Environment Ministers lately, because international cooperation in this field, among other things. through the so-called OSPAR Convention, an important framework for working to put pressure on the United Kingdom, and also on France, in terms of the reprocessing of nuclear waste, which we in Norway believe is a poor way of dealing with such waste.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e375	I think the Council of State has been active, and that is positive. I also think it is commendable what has happened in relation to Nordic colleagues. I also note that Nordic Environment Ministers have responded with protests against the Russian nuclear waste transport plans along our coasts. But I want to follow up with the following comments: The working party often places great emphasis on their close contact with sister parties in other countries. Tony Blair’s UK has often been referred to as an exciting country for which the Norwegian Labour Party can take note. I think it is quite crucial for this matter – and I have all the respect for the efforts and commitment of the Minister for the Environment – that it is also raised from Prime Minister to Prime Minister, in other words, that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg addresses this with Tony Blair in addition to the excellent initiative the Minister for the Environment has now promoted. So my question is, can we assume that this will be addressed in such a way that there will also be a direct contact with Prime Minister to get serious about this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e382	What can be estimated is an active involvement of this government in reducing the radioactive emissions from the Sellafield plant. We do not yet know the long-term effects of these emissions. One of the initiatives we are now going to follow up on in concrete terms is scientific input from the Norwegian side to the UK authorities on possible effects, for example those mentioned by the representative Dørum. We will also use all political channels to continue working on such an important issue, both to the United Kingdom and to other countries involved in the transport of nuclear waste and, where appropriate, its receipt. Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e389	There will be follow-up questions – Steinar Bastisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e392	I have an additional question for the Minister for the Environment. That emissions from Sellafield pollute the Norwegian coast is an old and well-known problem. There should be no doubt about that. In addition, like Dørum, I would like to draw attention to the planned shipment of nuclear waste to Russia. The danger of a ship falling on the Norwegian coast is imminent. What kind of action does the Minister for the Environment intend to take to prevent ships transporting nuclear waste to Russia from falling on the Norwegian coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e399	What we are now working on is primarily of a precautionary nature, by the fact that the Government has taken up with the Russian authorities that we believe it is very unfortunate to allow Russia to import nuclear waste from other countries. Russia has more than enough of its own challenges in dealing with nuclear waste. This is one of the measures we're dealing with. We are also working on this with other countries, so that there can be pressure to prevent such transport. In addition, it will be appropriate to work on improving the arrangements for alerting transport. Today, we have an agreement with Russia on warning of accidents. From the Norwegian side, we see the need to extend this agreement to cover the warning of dangerous transport. This could apply to nuclear waste, but it would also be relevant for such warning when transporting oil and other environmentally hazardous cargoes along the coast. So this is an important part of the work we are now doing on both preventive and preparedness measures to prevent pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e406	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e409	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment a question. Yesterday there was a meeting between the Norwegian and Swedish Environment Minister to discuss the management of the southern Scandinavian wolf tribe. From the outset, we have an agreement that eight to ten family groups will be enough in the border lines between Sweden and Norway. The Swedes will now leave this agreement. It was suggested that you have a partial measure of 200 wolves in the area, which is to be increased to 500 over a certain period of time. When we know that every animal eats approx. 10 kg of meat per day. Today, that means that big game, small game, and possibly sheep that had to wander into this area, will disappear quite quickly. With a deterioration in the quality of life that this area has after all, it will be very difficult for Norway to have such a wolf tribe. What can the Minister for the Environment do to prevent the Swedishs from achieving their objectives for the wolf tribe?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e416	It's not that long since we had a wide-ranging treatment of predatory problems in the Storting. One of the most important things that emerged in that debate is the desire to continue the responsibility we have in Norway to take care of predators belonging in Norwegian nature, while at the same time dealing with the conflict with settlement in the districts and with agriculture with animals on land. As far as the wolf is concerned, I am still relying on a Norwegian objective to have eight to ten family groups of wolves in the southern Scandinavian region. There is now a significant degree of certainty that we have achieved this goal in our areas. That is why the Directorate for Nature Management has chosen to take a decision on the killing of some wolves. Sweden is working on plans for its further management and has pointed to 200 animals in the same area as a current target. It is not relevant from the Norwegian side to change our objectives, but I still see great interest in working with Sweden in this area, not least in research into the development of the wolf tribe, in how they live, so that we can know even more about the challenges that predators represent. This was the agreement between my Swedish colleague and me yesterday, although we do not share the view on the importance and necessity of killing any animals in this tribe.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e425	I thank you for the clear distance that the Minister for the Environment has here for the plans Sweden has in this area. An increase of up to 500 animals will mean an increase of approx. 250 wolves per day. years. This will be quite difficult to deal with, when we see that the hunting team that is now running in the northern parts of Hedmark, in twelve days, has managed to shoot one wolf. I have great faith that the hunting team will do their job, but it is a difficult hunt, and with an increase of 250 wolves per. years will be an impossibility. I have proposed that the elk can take over the hunt for wolf outside the zone. It's cheap and efficient, it's good hunters, who can be out in the woods, it's the same way the bear hunt is going on in Sweden these days. How does the Minister for the Environment view such a future disposal of wolves outside the zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e434	It is the Directorate for Nature Management that has taken the decision on the felling of wolves in the Norwegian region, and it is therefore also the Directorate that has arranged for the hunt that is now taking place in the Østerdalen. I trust that they have arranged for an effective hunt. We'll have to evaluate the results after the hunt is over. I do not exclude other forms of extraction of the wolf in the future. The most important thing is that we get an effective withdrawal, and I will deal with the expert authorities' assessments of how best we can do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e440	There will be follow-up questions – Per Roar Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e443	I would like to ask an additional question, which also includes the wolf's act. There's a lot of ways to act like a wolf. My question is whether it might be possible to use helicopters, in the same way as when you're going to mark the wolf. This is quite effective, it is fast, and I also think it is cheap. In addition, the use of anaesthetics also allows the choice of the wolves to be killed and the ones not to be killed. It is very important that you do not kill the lead wolf, because if the flock has no lead wolf, it can spread and spread anxiety and suffering further. Another question: I assume that the number that has been informed is maintained, no matter how long the hunt takes. And a little humorous about what the Swedish Environment Minister said yesterday: Was it a Norwegian or Swedish wolf, what nationality did it actually have?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e452	What is now happening in the Østerdalen is an extraction of wolves on the basis of a decision taken by the Directorate of Nature Management. It's not hunting in the traditional sense. For this reason, a professional assessment of the best practices to be used for the exclusion covered by the decision and which there is also a judicial decision in the right of access to justice. I appreciate the input from Stortinget on how such hunting can best and most effectively happen, and take it with me in the assessments I'm going to make, also on the basis of technical advice from the Directorate of Nature Management, who has experience in hunting predators. With regard to the tribe in Norway, I can confirm that the government is working on the basis of Stortinget’s figures, which are eight to ten family groups of wolves, and the tribe in our areas is Norwegian/Swedish. The wolf we shoot now is clearly in Norwegian territory, and can be said to be Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e461	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e466	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from the representative Morten Lund to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been removed. Question 10, from the representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen to the Minister for Transport, will be taken up by the representative of Unni Hennum Lie. Question 19, from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Administration who will direct him. At the request of the Minister of Labour and Administration, this question is moved and answered in response to question 4, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e482	I have the following questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The winner of the Nobel Peace Prize 2000, South Korea’s President Kim Dae Jung, has recommended Norway to establish an embassy in North Korea. Will the Government create a foreign station in North Korea in the light of recent developments?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e491	First, I would like to say that Norway actively supports the convergence process between North and South Korea, which speeded up at the Pyongyang Summit last year. Nobel Prize winner President Kim Dae Jung, as we all know, has been an active driver in this process. Norway's involvement in North Korea takes place primarily through humanitarian aid. Last year Norway contributed about 30 million. kr for various relief measures. The relationship with North Korea was achieved today through our embassy in Beijing, which is constantly following developments in the country. The Norwegian ambassador also regularly visits North Korea. In the light of the convergence process between the two Korean states, we aim to increase our commitment to North Korea. It is therefore the Government's view that contacts with North Korea should be developed. However, we see this happening through more frequent visits to North Korea from our embassy in Beijing, and therefore within the current budgetary framework. We're set to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e507	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer, but I think it was too defensive and static. The rapprochement between North and South Korea is one of the most promising things now happening in relation to regional conflicts that we have had in the world in recent years. It is good that Norway engages in humanitarian aid, but it is also important that Norway assess what we can do to stimulate the ongoing process politically. And when the President of South Korea, which is the most central figure in this, believes that Norway should also do something about diplomatic representation, it should deserve a thorough consideration from the Norwegian side. We now see that several countries are changing their diplomatic relations with North Korea. The United Kingdom has decided to establish an embassy in the capital of North Korea. Countries such as the Netherlands and Belgium are now changing their representation by side accreditation to North Korea from Seoul in South Korea. It also seems that there has been a change in North Korea's attitude to page accreditation, that they are now politically accepting that it can happen from Seoul in South Korea. If you don't want to set up your own foreign station in the north, I'll ask the Secretary of State to consider asking him if someone will consider a page accreditation from South Korea.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e518	Let me do three points. Point one is that Norway is very much involved in many peace processes around the world. We have a huge foreign policy burden now by being a member of the Security Council, we are chairing the Sanctions Committee against Iraq, we are going to take over the leadership of KFOR in a month, and we are headed by the donor group for the Palestinian territories. So it's a very demanding foreign policy situation, and we don't think we can spread much more than what we've now done. We have to do the problems that we've already done. Second, other countries have already committed themselves to the Korean question in a good way. They can keep doing that. I do not see that Norway can do anything further. There was no proposal when we discussed the budget to extend the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget to include a representation in North Korea. The question of page accreditation from South Korea we have not evaluated, but it can of course be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e531	I still think the Minister for Foreign Affairs has a far too defensive attitude to this. Of course, Norway is not going to spread too much, and we cannot be involved in resolving all the world's conflicts. But when the President of South Korea asks us for something, it deserves to be taken more seriously than the Foreign Minister's answer now had to be. With regard to a budget, it has not been said that one needs to do something in the current year that has budgetary implications, but if one is to do something, for example. in view of the next year, it should be planned and prepared now. If one has come to the conclusion that at this stage one will not create a separate foreign station in North Korea, what we can contribute politically and otherwise, might be easier to deal with if it occurs through a side accreditation from South Korea. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs once again that he takes a closer look at this issue and does not settle for the fact that everything is well as it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e540	I just have to say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must take care of the tasks that we have undertaken and that we have budgetary frameworks to implement. This enquiry by Kim Dae Jung came before the budget for this year was discussed, and if Kjell Magne Bondevik had a strong desire to implement this, it could have been included in the budget discussions with the Workers' Party. I can say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would not have taken a negative attitude to that. But there was no sign of wanting to get this into the budget framework. When it comes to covering this from South Korea, I think maybe the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can go through it. I feel that this is not necessarily a matter to be discussed in Stortinget, but of course we should look at the appropriateness of it. But the important thing is that we have to deal with the foreign policy problems we've actually dealt with. Other countries do a very good job on Korean issues. We're going to get involved, but I just have to say that it can't be a top priority task for us now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e554	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘8. In February 2001, a member of the International Organisation Peace Brigades International was attacked and threatened by a paramilitary group in Colombia. [[PBI]] At the same time, the PBI was declared a military target for this group. 5 Northmen are among the 35 peacemakers for the PBI in Colombia. What has the Government done to ensure their security and to protest against the threats to which they have been subjected?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e563	Colombia is one of the world's most violent societies. Norway has been involved in the peace process in the country and has joined a friend country group together with Spain, France, Switzerland and Cuba at the invitation of the country’s government and the ELN guerrilla. There's a dialogue going on between the government and the two major geril organisations. In order to facilitate negotiations, FARC, one of them, was granted by the government two years ago a zone of clearance of 41,000 km2 in the southern part of the country. The parties have not yet come particularly close to a peace settlement. Nor is it open to a formalized international role in the government-FARC dialogue. The Government and the ELN, assisted by the Friends Country Group, have recently reached agreement on the establishment of a smaller ELN zone of clearance. The intended son is located in a very conflicty area called Magdalena Medio in the northern part of Colombia. The event on which the representative Mr. Rangtvedt is based was just happening there. The armed conflict in Colombia has been going on for 40 years. The most frightening development in recent years has been the emergence of paramilitary groups. Like the guerrilla, they finance their activities through the collection of protection money from drug traffic and ransoms for kidnapping victims. They have gradually been given a prevalence and a force for impact that allows them to perform actions throughout Colombia. Massacre of what they themselves refer to as ‘gerile sympathizers’ is their method. Through the involvement of the buddy country group, we are particularly concerned by the implementation in Magdalena Medio of conflict mitigation measures that can help the ELN's intended zone of freedom to function as a kind of ‘peace laboratory’, thereby consolidating the general peace process. Meetings involving Norway in the context of the country of friends are always recommended to the parties to the conflict to respect international humanitarian law and to reduce the suffering of the population. As a direct consequence of the incident that involved a Swedish member of the PBI, I have written a letter to my colleague in Colombia expressing Norway's concern about the incident. At the same time, I asked the Colombian government to do everything in its power to stop the development of violence. Without in any way minimizing the last incident, I would nevertheless mention that the two paramilitaries who threatened the Swedish observer later came back to apologize, while they stated that the PBI was not considered a military target. Nevertheless, we consider the episode to be very serious. It illustrates the need for the government to cleanse Magdalena Medio of paramilitaries. At the same time, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made it clear to the PBI that if the lives and health of observers are at stake, they must make a decision to withdraw them. Through its accompanying role in the peace process, Norway hopes to contribute to peace and reconciliation in Colombia. Norwegian involvement is considered to be significant and constructive by the government, the guerrilla and not least the civil society of Colombia. But we're prepared that the road can be long and difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e580	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the answer, and I understand that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has done a good job in relation to the concrete threats that the PBI was exposed to. This organisation is doing a very valuable job in Colombia at my discretion. The idea behind their activities is that the presence of representatives of an international organisation will contribute to the protection of peace and human rights activists. There was therefore every reason to take it seriously and say that it was unacceptable that the PBI was declared a military target, which fortunately has been withdrawn. The paramilitary groups in Colombia are responsible for about 80 pst. of massacres and political killings in Colombia, and very unfortunate contacts have been revealed between the army and the paramilitary. It seems obvious that the authorities are not doing enough to combat the violence for which the paramilitaries are responsible. The European Parliament has also recently adopted a resolution which makes clear demands to combat violence. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he is of the opinion that the Colombian authorities have made sufficient efforts to combat the violence of the paramilitary and whether Norway intends to call on the Colombian authorities to combat the violence of the paramilitary groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e593	It is difficult to say that the Colombian authorities have done enough to combat paramilitary groups, but at the same time I would say that there are clear attempts to get it under control. Among other things, I can mention that Norway has contributed by bringing people here to the country to train military personnel in how to run a military organisation on the basis of democratic principles. However, it is probably a long way to go, and Norway is constantly in contact with the Colombian authorities on this very serious issue, which is an important obstacle to the peace process in Colombia.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e598	Once again, I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. As the Foreign Minister himself said, Colombia is one of the world's most violent countries and among them with the worst scrolls in terms of human rights. Trade unionists, student activists and peace fighters are among those who are subjected to violence and threats. At the same time, the fear of persecution and commitment to creating peace and justice in Colombia are absolutely essential. In the opinion of the SV, Norway should be active in ensuring protection for policy-makers from Colombia, who are threatened for short or longer periods of time. In the past, the NOAS, the Refugee Council and Amnesty have proposed, among others: lifting the visa requirement for Colombia, introducing an increased quota for refugees from Colombia to Norway and the possibility for Colombians to seek asylum in Norway from Colombia. Has the Government followed up these proposals, or does the Government intend to follow them up?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e607	I can't go into that specific question now, but I'm afraid it doesn't have much to do with the matter – how to protect peace activists in the country. And there we have to keep in touch with the Colombian authorities, as well as those who act in this area, have to be aware of the dangers to which one exposes oneself and others. Unfortunately, Norway does not have the means to protect those who want to get involved in this area, but we are absolutely doing what we can. The question about refugees and about Norwegian visa policy seems to me to be a different question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e615	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: ‘The Government suggests that an extension of the territorial limit from 4 to 12 nautical miles could be an instrument to increase coastal preparedness. Such an extension means that the defence must be provided with additional resources. As a minimum, and probably the most effective instrument, radar surveillance is well combined with other information that can contribute to the effective enforcement of Norwegian sovereignty in the area. Can the Council of State explain what is needed to ensure overall maritime surveillance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e624	I have now three times in Great Britain's Question Time explained different aspects of maritime surveillance, and on this occasion I do not want to repeat myself or the other government councils have said about this, but refer to various answers to various questions. As the representative of Bastisen is familiar with, the Government will assess the possibilities and consequences of extending the territorial sea. This action could help to strengthen coastal preparedness if combined with other measures. Of course, monitoring will be an element in this context. Another would be to move required sailing leaders further out of the coast. An extension of the territorial waters could improve the response time for vessels entering or in transit into Norwegian waters. An effective sovereignty exercise requires the defence to have sufficient presence and systems to monitor the activity. The impact of such a measure on the defence is under investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e633	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In St. prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 describes the need to monitor our areas and the defence must have effective and credible capacity for resource and environmental control. Effective and credible sovereignty requires sufficient resources to monitor the activity in our areas. The presence at short notice of appropriate materials and personnel, adequate monitoring, reinforcement of their usability and response time and border surveillance along the Norwegian-Russian border are mentioned as important tasks, but not border surveillance along the coast. Finally, it appears that the defence has an important role to play in coastal preparedness. Despite this, the defence's coastal radar and the lack of surveillance resources are not mentioned in one word. Is it so to understand that this is not to be regarded as structurally dependent resources and that an extension is within the scope of the plan, regardless of St.prp. No 45?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e642	I am pleased that the representative Bastisen has come a long way to read St. prp. No 45. It is a very solid document, and I am pleased with the references to it. I've answered the question about the coastal radar chain before. It has an important role, regardless of what it says, and what it doesn't say, in the proposition, and nothing new has happened there in relation to the answers I've given in the Storting in the past. The problem is that while the chain in the north is in good condition, the chain in the south is not in good condition. And we can't count on much money from NATO's infrastructure resources, and so we have an economic problem with this part of the coastal radar chain, which I mentioned earlier. So we have to come back to that in a budgetary context. Unfortunately, it is not possible now to pre-shoot it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e651	I thank you for your answer. I have an additional question. On 14 February, the Coastal Director stated in a chronicle that the Coastal Agency is responsible for surveillance of the coast in peacetime, and the Defence primarily in wartime. He goes on to say that the Coastal Works must have the central role within this area, with the support of the Maritime Defense. This corresponds to the signals received by the Storting, where the Ministry of Fisheries has investigated the possibility of coordinating existing monitoring resources. In the light of the former opinion of the Minister of Defence, the contents of St.prp. No 45 and the fact that the defence has already investigated the technical solutions and the economic consequences, it seems strange – it may be time to promote the need and provide a recommended solution. Does the Minister have any comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e660	Yes, it is always time to promote a recommended solution, but there have not been so many weeks since the Minister for the Environment took the initiative to meet the relevant government councils, which have followed up well internally in the government, and where the government has of course been in contact with the many – I stress many – underlying agencies, so that we can get the best possible overall management of the issues that the representative Bastes is rightly concerned with. And so it is not possible for me, as one of many expert councils concerned, to give the answer here and now, but it is in the initiative taken by the Government and coordinated by the Minister for the Environment that the overall response of the representative is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e668	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: «In connection with the treatment of Innst. S. No 243 for 1999-2000 13 June 2000 the Government was asked to set up an investigation commission on the pioneer diving in the North Sea. Furthermore, it was asked that one assessor to give the North Sea dive alliance an observer spot in this commission. 8 months have passed since this decision was taken, and I therefore find reason to ask whether this Commission has now been reduced, what diving competence it has, and whether the North Sea Diving Alliance has received observers’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e677	The work of setting up the Commission has taken longer than expected, and I regret that. This has its background in the fact that it has been difficult to find candidates with the right skills. The diving environment in Norway is small, so the number of current candidates has been relatively limited. Furthermore, the Commission shall be independent, which means that both authorities and persons who have previously been involved in the diving activities on Norwegian pedestal cannot be present in the Commission. This has also further limited the range of current candidates. It has been important for me to avoid any doubt as to the competence and the capacity of the Commissioners. For this reason, the selection process has taken time. However, I can assure you that the Commission will be set up in a very short time. I have also suggested that a relatively small commission be set up, consisting of four people. They will have legal, medical and technical competence. In addition, I have placed great emphasis on the Commission’s use of other available medical and technical skills both domestically and abroad. I noticed that the Storting has asked the Government to consider giving the North Sea dive alliance observer status in the Commission. The Government has not formally appointed the Commission yet. However, I can assure you that it is a prerequisite for me that the Commission should ensure a good dialogue with all stakeholders, including representatives of the divers, in order to clarify all matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e688	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I really hope, as the council says, that the interests, among other things. to the North Sea Diving Alliance and the North Sea Pioneer Divers will be properly maintained. It has per cent. Today, I must say, not only took a long time; I think it has taken an unreasonable amount of time to reduce this Commission. When it takes more than eight months from Stortinget's decision to the department implements the decision, I think it is really critical. And when the Council of State says here that there is a relatively small diving environment in Norway, I can't believe that it's going to take eight months to grasp the competence that's going on. I hope that the Council of State will now take the ball that he will once again assure that he will ensure that the North Sea dive alliance will be given observer status in the Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e697	I hear what the questioner says, and I just refer to my first answer. I agree that this has taken an unreasonable long time, perhaps a very unreasonable long time. We've been focusing on this, and we'll be appointing the Commission in the next few days. How we manage the relationship between the Commission as a Commission and all the interest groups, including the diving environment, which should have ample opportunity to bring their views on the ground – how to organise this in relation to whether it should be observer status, or there should be reference groups, or in what way we should organise it – I will come back to when the Commission is appointed. But I can assure you that these interests will come to light and be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e704	I thank you once again for the answer and look forward to these things being followed up. The North Sea dive alliance, which is a union for those who, among other things, In the North Sea, several resource people who have really put their lives and souls in the process of identifying and clarifying part of what has happened, and they have spent their private money for this. It's now reached a point where you've actually run out of money, and the last week even went with the computer of this alliance broken. In order to use the competences of these persons and the recorded data held by them, the Council of State will take an initiative to assess whether or not to go in and see if a project support can be provided to this organisation, including: can the necessary information be put in place and use this competence that these persons have? The Council of State will take an initiative towards these persons in order to get them on the road and to help in the work being done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e711	Of course, if I receive an application, it must be considered very seriously. I am also concerned that the experience, competence and information they hold are secured in such a way that it can be used both in the Commission's work and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e716	Then we go to question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e722	This question, from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Administration who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e725	I will ask the Minister for Labour and Administration the following questions: «A report on the news transmission of the TV 2 on 11 February 2001 shows that random persons can obtain the personal numbers of others by calling public files and asking for the number. The report also revealed the possibilities of abuse available for access to other person numbers, including through the use of false identity. What measures will the Council of State take to ensure better privacy than today?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e734	Initially, I would like to make a brief remark that a great deal has already been done to strengthen privacy in recent years. On 1 January 2001, a new law and new rules on personal data entered into force. The new law will help to strengthen privacy to a greater extent than previous laws. The question raised by the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo relates specifically to the misuse of the person number of others. I would like to point out here that, according to the Administrative Act, the personal number is not a language-related information. This is actually a conscious choice. Personal identification number is an excellent means when used for identification where there is a need for an overview of a number of persons. At the introduction of the personal identification number, it was precisely intended that each person should receive a unique number for identification and that the number should be used where there is a real need for it. Each person will be served with a good tool to identify and separate persons. Therefore, when the personal number is correctly used, it will be a strength for privacy that this is public. Therefore, it is not appropriate to exclude the personal identification number from the public. However, the personal identification number is not suitable for identification and its use as a means of identification should therefore not be accepted. As the report on TV 2 showed, it is now easy to obtain the person number of someone else and to easily abuse this knowledge. It is therefore important to have a general understanding that the personal identification number cannot be used in the same way as a pin code, which only the holder of the code should know. Therefore, the use of a personal identification number practice needs to be changed. It will initially be up to each enterprise itself to comply with this. In my opinion, it is not desirable to classify the personal identification number as a language-related information. The law, as it stands today, presupposes that individual businesses are following up their responsibilities in order to require a secure identification of the tasks that require it. However, I believe that the identified abuse potential makes it necessary to consider whether it should be specified in the law or regulation that the personal identification number should not be used as an identification. I would therefore like to take the initiative in such an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e751	That was my natural follow-up question. I think what the Council of State says is completely logical. In order to obtain a personal identification number other than that of the person concerned, it is also necessary to ensure that it is not misused. My question in principle would then have been: Will the Council of State take the initiative to change the law and regulations in order to prevent abuse? Now I understand to the Council of State that he will take such an initiative, and I am pleased about that. Then I think I have achieved what I was looking for with the question I asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e760	I can only confirm that the representative has achieved what he wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e765	So we go back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e772	This question, from the representative Morten Lund to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e775	I will be asked the following questions: ‘Due to the EEA Agreement, Norwegian industry may be charged additional electricity taxes and other environmental taxes of more than 7 billion. krona per year, according to Today's Business. This could be imposed in Norway despite the recent decision of the Stortinget by a solid majority that the industry should be exempt from electricity taxation. The special exemption from the electricity charge in Finnmark and Nord-Troms may also be lifted. Will the Government accept that Norwegian tax policy is increasingly determined in Brussels?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e784	The tax area is not covered by EEA cooperation. This means that the Norwegian authorities themselves decide which taxes and taxes are to be imposed. The level of taxation is also determined nationally. However, the definition of national fiscal policy must take into account the general principles of non-discrimination and the rules on State aid contained in the EEA Agreement. State aid includes, in the EEA context, aid in any form, including tax and tax reductions that confer economic benefits on specific undertakings or activities. What obligations we have in the various contexts need to be clarified. The review of the current economic situation last week was linked to the recently adopted guidelines of the European Commission on the treatment of State aid granted for environmental reasons. The guidelines clarify the State aid rules. The ESA, in accordance with established practice, is expected to adopt similar guidelines and to address Norway with regard to the possible adaptation of Norwegian aid schemes covered by the guidelines. The Government will examine on its own initiative the existing exemptions/reliefs granted and assess whether they may be affected by the guidelines. I will come back to what leads this might have for, among other things. industry exemption from electricity charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e795	I thank you for your answer. I guess that's about what I was expecting. We have come into a very special situation. We're allowed to decide our taxes and taxes ourselves, but ESA can try it out, and that's what's going on right now. So it was a solid majority in Stortinget that said that the industry would not pay the electricity tax. We were fully aware that this was an advantage for the industry. That's why we decided. We were also aware that there was a discrimination in relation to households, as the ESA has been involved. That's what we wanted, and the industry was very pleased with what happened. The EU has now come to the conclusion that this is illegal State aid, for ESA has said that they do not expect that there will be any political resistance in Norway based on what has happened here. In fact, in order to do something about this, Norway has to use the EFTA Court, because this is not a decision where we can use our right of reservation. We have to take this up in court. In order to defend the right of the Storting to determine our fees, will the Government go to the EFTA Court on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e806	The representative of Lund refers to this as if all issues related to the EU clarification of the State aid guidelines have been clarified. They're not! As my main response showed, first of all, we expect ESA to develop guidelines. We have not received them. Secondly, we want to have a review of the arrangements we have, in the light of the guidelines we are now seeing adopted. That review has not been carried out. It is only when we have made the necessary assessments that it is also possible to assess what steps it is natural and appropriate to take in this situation. Our starting point is to provide arrangements that provide a good framework for business and housing, within the contract work we are obliged to do. This is the basis for the assessments we want to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e815	My opinion is based on what is referred to in the media, the head of ESA, Knut Almestad. He calculates the matter as being settled – and clarified, and that the decision to pay the fee must be reversed. This is quite indicative of what the EEA Agreement is, it is not a bad housekeeper's contract, it is worse than that, because the farmer can change any point without notice. Industry was guaranteed zero-customs through the free trade agreement we had, with the exception of food. The EEA Agreement did not confer any benefit on industry, but now they are being penalised by virtue of the EEA Agreement, which has been mentioned as so beneficial. Industry itself has described the effects on employment if they are to be imposed such taxes as they now seem to have: many thousands of jobs can disappear. There are many people who have thought that it could be just as good, and that the flow used by the industry is being transferred to the private sector. Does the Council agree whether it should go so wrong that we have to introduce these environmental taxes, that it also has such positive effects?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e826	As far as the general position on the EEA Agreement is concerned, it is not particularly eye-catching that the representative Lund here brings to the square, it is opinions that we are accustomed to from that point of view. However, with regard to the importance of the agreement for industry and business, it is clear that this needs to be seen in a much wider context. Then it is quite obvious that the Government does not share the view that this can be unequivocally negative. Of course, we will look into these assessments with a positive attitude, assuming that the decisions taken in the Stortinget are taken, and then we will make the necessary assessments and clarifications – and come back to these questions to the extent that it is necessary to get to the Storinget with this. That is where the matter stands today. Before we get any further into the assessments, it is also not possible to provide any concrete answers to the questions raised by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e836	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Women who have been persecuted and abused should be able to obtain residence permits in Norway, according to 1998 guidelines. In the newspaper on February 15, 2001, it appears that there is currently no permission to suspend women under these rules, although there are several examples of this rule being applied. What will the Council of State do to ensure that female victims of violence without Norwegian citizenship are protected under the 1998 guidelines?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e845	It is not right that asylum has not been granted under the new guidelines. Some Bosnian women have been granted asylum after rape on an ethnic basis. Some other women have also received asylum. The fact that women have been granted asylum on this basis has to be seen in the context of having their asylum application justified on the grounds that they are at risk of gender-based persecution. As is well known, it shall always be assessed whether a person who, by virtue of the rules, is entitled to an asylum refusal shall nevertheless be granted authorisation for reasons of high human interest, so-called a humanitarian residence permit. An overall assessment shall be carried out, where previous abuses are always central to the assessment of the existence of strong human considerations. Of those seeking asylum in Norway, nearly half are granted a humanitarian residence permit. Many women have received and are granted a humanitarian residence permit precisely because of abuse or because they have been subjected to serious abuse. The fact that an abused woman has no effective means of breaking out of a marriage because of divorce laws etc. in the country of origin, is another relevant moment. These women do not risk persecution in the sense of the Refugee Convention by return. However, they have received a residence permit, because we believe there are strong human concerns. There are no statistics on the number of women who have received a residence permit due to gender abuse, because the statistics do not distinguish the reason for granting a residence permit under the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Act. The aim of the 1998 guidelines was that several of those who until then received a humanitarian residence permit should receive asylum, not that more persons should be granted a total residence permit. One of several important changes in principle, which was clarified by the 1998 Guidelines, was that persons persecuted for sex or sexual orientation should be granted asylum. Women who are abused in living conditions are further entitled to a renewed residence permit under the foreign regulations of Section 37, sixth paragraph, if they or the children have been subjected to abuse in the relationship. The woman is required to have a residence permit in Norway for such a new authorisation to be granted on her own basis. There are low demands for evidence, and most of the cases are granted by the Directorate of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e856	I thank you for your answer. The aim of the softening in 1998 was to secure more abused and persecuted women's access to asylum. It is alarming that several organisations are now demonstrating serious examples of non-compliance. It is also alarming that there are many examples of abstinence based on sexual discrimination. Your daily headline is one example. Another example is a Chilean mistreated woman who was sent from Haugesund with her teenage children to a very insidious presence, and the man was sentenced to prison for assault. Will the Council of State take the initiative in softening the situation in order to ensure more upswing and asylum?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e867	Firstly, the 1998 guidelines are followed. So it is not right, as the representative Meltveit Kleppa now says, that they are not being followed, but with the foreign law that applies, there are some criteria for staying on asylum grounds, among others. that there must be persecution from which one comes. But like the previous government – and we have no less commitment to gender perspective or women's perspective than the Government of Bondevik had – we believe that these are very important and serious issues in relation to women who are being abused and subjected to abuse. There is also the background to the fact that many of the women who are just staying in Norway on a humanitarian basis, that we believe that there are strong human concerns that make many of the women stay in the country. The size has now also to treatment St.meld. No 17. And I expect that in that context, too, we will have ample opportunity to discuss this further. I have now also taken the initiative to review the Foreign Affairs Act in its entirety in the light of the time we now live in, which is different from when the law was created, and one of the things that we have to look at is precisely what concerns the gender perspective and the women's perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e876	Governments may select two angles when receiving alarm messages in relation to the current situation. She could say, here's the law, here's the direction, this is good, the direction lines are followed. Or she could say, yes, I'm going to say that the guidelines are being practiced liberally, I'm going to change the law if necessary. She has power, she has the right to initiative. Stats state that statistics are not available here. Statistics can be used so often, but here it might be necessary as a supplement; it applies to all copies. Does she want to make sure that there are better statistics here, and will she, with the commitment that she says she has, sympathize with, when one of these examples clearly sees that there are strict guidelines here, that we get a softening?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e883	It's not like I'm just saying I have a commitment to this, I have a commitment to this, and it's been a long time before the case was mentioned in the Newspaper, I've had it over several years in my various roles in political life, both in government and magnificence and in partisan context. And I'm at least as busy with this as the previous government was. So I don't think this case serves for one to drive and construct differences between two governments. The guidelines require me to be followed. With regard to the specific individual issues, I have no opportunity to go in and comment on each of them. I also do not have any authority to go in and instruct in individual matters any longer after the decision of Stortinget zejl. That's the situation after 1 January. So it is that I have taken the matter into account, in the sense that I have signaled a rather precise week ago today that I want a review of the Foreign Affairs Act. One of the things that I want to look at there is exactly what's about sex, and that's about women. So it's also so that we do a lot of things in the short term, and we get the opportunity to discuss it in the context of that message as well. Statistics are also something I want to assess in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e902	‘In the evening post of 15 February 2001, it is reported that Ullevål Hospital will shut down the pain clinic and transfer patients to Aker. The pain clinic at Ullevål is a very good and necessary offer to 500 seriously ill patients as the only help they get against pain that is not to live with. The games at Ullevål's clinic fear longer waiting time for pain patients if Ullevål's clinic is closed. Will the Council of State ensure that the pain clinic in Ullevål Hospital is maintained?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e909	Patients with chronic pain conditions are a heterogeneous group, with a need for several types of special skills. 15 years ago, on this basis, it was recommended that multidisciplinary units be established for the diagnosis and treatment of chronic pain conditions in the regional hospitals, as well as for the development of central hospital competence. In Oslo, pain clinics are established at the Rikshospitalet, Aker Hospital, Ullevål Hospital and Radium Hospital. In addition, there are offers in the area to some pain patients at Bærum Hospital, the Central Hospital in Akershus and also at some private specialist centres. I don't see it as unreasonable that between the hospitals in the area there are assessments of how pain treatment can be offered in the best possible way. As I understand it, Ullevål Hospital has taken up with Aker Hospital a proposal that the offer at Ullevål be transferred to Aker. According to the State Health Authority, the Aker Hospital pain clinic has largely succeeded in establishing a wide range of specialities. Ullevål hospital informs that the pain clinic there is a small unit consisting of one doctor, and a multidisciplinary team is not established to investigate and treat patients. It is treated, as stated, one to two patients outpatients per month. day(s) Then I must stress that it is the municipality of Oslo that is responsible for the satisfactory offer of this type of treatment in Oslo. I trust that the municipality will maintain a proper offer for patients with so complex conditions that they need to be investigated at interdisciplinary pain clinics. Of course, there must be no doubt that Ullevål Hospital, like any other hospital, must have competence in pain management. But if the Municipality of Oslo chooses to organise an overall pain clinic at Aker Hospital, and thus can guarantee to give patients with chronic pain conditions a satisfactory offer, I don't see any reason to intervene in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e926	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. Once again, we are facing the unfortunate situation of county hospitalization. So far, it has been very slow to establish interdisciplinary, adequate, good pain wards in our major hospitals. Ullevål Hospital, which is the largest university hospital, has for a long time had a very good professional pain department, and it is in my opinion pointless that this is now to be laid down and transferred to another hospital, especially because Ullevål Hospital is a university hospital that has a teaching obligation in relation to the medical students. The estimated financial savings by transferring the pain department to Aker Hospital seem to be NOK 200000. Can the Minister of Health, as the Prime Minister responsible for Norwegian health care, accept the removal of this offer at Ullevål Hospital in order to save NOK 200 000 per year?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e935	If that's the specific question, I think it's unacceptable. But I have not understood that the background for this is that you want to save NOK 200,000. If that was the case, I repeat that then I absolutely will not find it as any suitable proposal for a solution. But I see it as raising a question of whether you can offer pain treatment in a better way by transferring – and collecting this type of treatment – to one of the two hospitals Aker and Ullevål. And where I want to say that if Oslo's municipality as the responsible person in this area today comes to such a conclusion – and it must appear to be a better or at least as good offer to the patients concerned; I must stress that you are not there today, but if you get there – then I think there is little reason for me to intervene in it, but then it is not in that sense to save NOK 200,000.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e942	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer. The Health Minister knows very well that the City Council has ordered Ullevål Hospital to save between 300 and 400 million. kr in the current year, and so here you take this important function in relation to patients to save NOK 200,000. Pain treatment at our hospitals must not be built down, at my discretion, but must be stepped up. Being a patient with pain 24 hours a day can be difficult for us to get into. Has the Minister of Health personally assured that the pain patients now thought to have moved to Aker Hospital will not have longer waiting time, and that they will receive the same professional, good treatment at Aker Hospital as at Ullevål Hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e953	I must point out again that no decision has been taken on this in the Municipality of Oslo. There is a question raised from Ullevål Hospital. What I have been assured of is that it is a professionally very good offer for pain treatment at Aker Hospital, and that the waiting time is relatively short. And what I'm saying is that if this is a current proposal, in the sense that it will be implemented, it must be a prerequisite that the offer to patients who need this type of treatment should not be made worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e961	I would like to ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘There are various signals in the media about the progress plan for the call and the award of a new concession for nationwide advertising-funded television. Can the Councils clarify this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e970	The majority rejected as it was known before Christmas last year that remuneration for the TV concessions could be determined by auction, as proposed by the Government. At the same time, the concession was announced with the deadline of 21 February this year. In other words, the abuse proceedings resulted in the concession being republished. The text of the notice must be amended. I aim for a new announcement to be made in March, with the deadline for application before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e975	I thank you for your answer. I think it is good that we find that progress is quite rapid with regard to this now, that we get a new call quite quickly, and with the deadline before the summer. I see that the authorities and the candidates in question have common interests when it comes to clarifying who is to be awarded and under what conditions, among other things. in relation to the current cooperation in the digitalisation sector. I wonder if the Council of State is agreed on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e986	As I have said, I will pay great attention to getting the call out as soon as possible. I believe it is important for all parties that we get a process as fast as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e991	I thank you again for your answer. As the Council of State said, this matter shall not go back to Stortinget. One might have got the impression that some of the things in the newspapers were going back to Stortinget. When she does not go to Stortinget, this means that one can work in time from the deadline for the application to expire early in the summer until The Stortinget starts again in October. The only thing the Storting has said in addition to what has been said about the cases in the budget is that we should not have auctions, one should consider shorter concession terms, so it probably doesn't have to take that much time. So I hope that one after the deadline has expired and there are applications coming in, will work quickly, based on what I have said that one here has common interests. Does the Council of State see that we can have this clear during the fall — early fall preferably?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1000	The process after we have received the applications will depend on how many applicants apply. I fully agree with Mr Starrfelt's representative that it is desirable that this process be carried out as quickly as possible, but also that we guarantee the quality of the work, so that we get a clean process and a good result.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1008	I have this question for the Minister of Culture: ‘It is confirmed from the core NRK management that advertising-funded educational television may be relevant in the event of conversion to digital television. At the same time, the Nyborg Committee is proposing a stronger ban on broadcasting advertising aimed at children. Does the Council consider that advertising-funded educational television is compatible with the aim of reducing the advertising pressure on children, and will it act towards the NRK in order to prevent any funding for advertising of NRK's educational television?»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1017	I would first like to highlight a few formal matters. Firstly, we have today a clear ban on broadcasting advertising specifically aimed at children. This prohibition must, of course, also be observed when broadcasting educational television. It is also prohibited to send children’s and young people’s programmes sponsored by industry. Secondly, the Broadcasting Act clearly states that the NRK cannot send advertising in its public channels, i.e.: NRK1, NRK2, P1, P2 and P3. Following a change in the law that entered into force in January 2000, the Broadcasting Act is no longer a barrier to the involvement of NRK through subsidiaries in advertising-funded activities. However, it is clear in the preparatory work that the general meeting cannot give the NRK the consent to own or operate such channels without the matter having first been submitted to the Stortinget. The legislation is therefore quite clear in this area. The NRK has unequivocally confirmed to the Ministry that they plan advertising-funded educational television aimed at children. In NRK's plans, school television should continue to be broadcast on NRK1, which will also remain free of advertising in a digital version. The NRK confirms that advertising-funded educational television aimed at children is out-of-date when switched to digital television.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1030	I thank you for your answer, which was reassuring. When I raised this question, it was from messages – actually from Einar Fördes closest – that it might be relevant for advertising and sponsors in connection with Internet education and interactive TV. The Council of State now confirms that advertising-funded educational television will not be relevant. I assume that what Stortinget has said in the past, will also be followed up, that Stortinget will have to submit any permits to advertising-funded channels in Norway or channels aimed at Norway. What I want to follow up with is that the majority of the Nyborg Committee, to which I referred, believes it would be necessary to clarify or tighten up the legal text on broadcasting law and the possibility of funding advertising programmes for children. Will the Council of State look at this relationship in the further work?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1044	Let me point out that the Nyborg Committee's attitude to the Ministry of Children and the Family addresses an important debate on the commercial pressure against children and young people. I noticed that the sample believes that the Norwegian ban on broadcasting advertising specifically addressed to children is working satisfactorily. Norway and Sweden are quite alone in having such bans in Europe, and I am pleased that the Stortinget has set a limit on this type of influence. A majority of the Nyborg Committee wants the ban to be tightened to facilitate its enforcement. This proposal will be considered in the follow-up to the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1049	I also thank you for this answer, and I hope the Minister of Culture will take a close look at this proposal, which she has also confirmed. At the same time, however, we must be aware – I believe that the Minister of Culture is also – that the commercial pressure against children is increasing. The message is still gone that you are what you can consume. Ergo, as best we can, we have to reduce the advertising pressure on children. But when the framework for the business operation of the NRK was discussed on 30 November 1999, a majority – after intensive lobbying from the NRK – opened up to advertising on Text-TV. We therefore believed that there was a trend towards more advertising. SV went against advertising on Text-TV at the time because we believe Text-TV is an integral part of the public broadcasting offer, and because both the Consumer Ombudsman and the Ministry of Children and Family warned against the advertising press. In the light of the Nyborg Committee, will the Minister for Culture reconsider the provisions on advertising on Text TV?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1060	As I have said, my and the Government's clear ambition is to maintain the NRK as an advertisement-free channel. This is important, not least for children and young people who – I agree with the representative Valle in – live at a time when the commercial pressure is a great stress. I'm going to follow up on all of these issues, and I'm going to come back to the evaluation of Text TV.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1070	This question, from the representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Unni Hennum Lie.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1073	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Lier municipality has an E18 through the building and has been working for more than 20 years and waiting for noise protection. Together with the municipality of Lier and the citizens concerned, the state road safety authorities have developed the municipal sub-plan for noise protection. In preparation, several large public meetings created expectations that a solution would finally be found. Now it seems that the noise shield shifts again. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that residents are finally exposed to the noise screen, and when will it do so?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1082	Statens vägvesen Buskerud has developed a municipal sub-plan for action against traffic noise along the E18 through the municipality of Lier. The plan was adopted by the local government of Lier in 1999 and contains safeguards to reduce noise levels both indoor and outdoor. The objectives of the municipal sub-plan for noise protection are defined as follows: ‘For the E18 in Lier, the objective of the State Road Administration Buskerud is to meet the minimum objective of 42 dBA under the pollution law. Therefore, this objective does not include noise abatement measures relating to outdoor areas. The protection of outdoor areas which do not fall under the road safety obligations of the State under the pollution regulations must be considered as a long-term objective. The implementation of the proposed measures is assumed to take place in stages, and must be seen in the context of the other noise conditions in the county and the current budgetary situation». The State Road Service will initially implement measures for dwellings along the E18 in Lier which are exposed to indoor noise levels of 42 dBA or higher to comply with the pollution legislation. Detailed planning of actions is ongoing with a view to early implementation after 2001. Measures against outdoor traffic noise along the E18 in Lier must be further elaborated in regulatory plans. Funding for outdoor measures will be addressed when detailed plans are available.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1096	I thank you for the answer, and allow me to ask an additional question. I registered that the Minister of Transport referred to minimum measures imposed by the pollution laws on protection against indoor noise. In Lier, living conditions are such that conditions otherwise allow for too much outdoor life, so the residents feel the outdoor noise is a heavy burden. This now appears to have to be postponed until after 2005, following the signals from Vegvesen, prioritizing towards other rural road projects. Then I would like to ask the following question: If what I have been informed about is that noise protection of older European roads does not go from means of parenting, but from other public highways, what is the direct reason for the bill being placed on this post when the road has never been completed with noise protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1105	I just want to stress that the priorities underlying what we are doing are the following: firstly, it is clear that this route is a priority route, because it is one of the most burdensome distances in the whole country. The first priority within this again is protection against indoor noise and beyond: planning in relation to outdoor noise. That is the priority that also follows from the municipal sub-plan to which Lier municipal government has joined. When it comes to the admissibility issues, we'll be able to get back to them. I think it will be fully possible to find out when you are also scheduled for outdoor noise, which will also happen, as I mentioned in my main response, in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1112	I thank you for your answer. It shows that there is a certain chance that we can address such a question when it becomes relevant. I'll ask you one last question about noise load. Now, when it's talking about the possibility of increasing speed along some of our roads, it will of course also increase noise levels. Will the central authorities then be responsible for the increased noise level and therefore also for the need for noise protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1119	We want to be responsible for the noise level regardless of the speed, so also in relation to the higher speed level.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1127	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The WWF has recently been very active in a campaign against Norway’s wolf management and has in part tried to invigorate Norway’s reputation as an environmental nation abroad. [[World Wildlife Fund]] The Ministry of the Environment appoints a representative of the Board of Directors of the WWF. What is the background to the Ministry of the Environment’s desire to have a representative on the board of an association that makes hot propaganda against Norway abroad?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1136	First, I would like to point out that it is of great importance for environmental protection in Norway that we have many, large and strong environmental protection organisations. These organisations contribute significantly to raising awareness of environmental issues in the population and to keeping the debate on these issues alive. The importance of strong environmental organisations will become even more evident in the coming years. With an increased transfer of environmental authority to municipalities, the role of organisations in municipalities and community communities will be strengthened. Municipalities, on their part, should be aware of the competence of the organisations and actively avail themselves of the knowledge they possess. When the Ministry of the Environment appoints a representative to the Board of Directors of the WWF, this has historical and formal reasons. The WWF is a foundation that can receive financial support, where contributors may require tax exemptions for the contribution. This presupposes that the State appoints a representative of the Governing Board and that the public oversight responsibilities are added to the department closest to the individual formation. It is therefore up to the Ministry of the Environment to appoint the State Representative of the Board of Directors of the WWF. I would also like to point out that the Stortinget annually allocates funds to a 20-year-old organisation above the Ministry of the Environment's budget. There is no requirement for the professional – or political – profile of these organisations as a prerequisite for support. Similarly, the representation of the State on the Board of Directors of the WWF does not imply any such leadership. In general, I would like to say that it is important to distinguish between the role of administration and the role of voluntary organisations. There would be concern about government-drawn governance representations or similar positions to tie on voluntary organisations’ opportunity to take positions on a free basis. This must also be a principle in controversial matters, an example of which is robberies policy. It is not unnatural that an organisation that primarily has protection as its task may have a different view from the Government on such issues. Having said that, I understand that questions are being asked about the participation of environmental protection management in the board of directors of the WWF. I would therefore like to review the basis and appropriateness of government representation on the board of directors.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1151	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and fully agree that we should have strong and independent environmental organisations which, on their own initiative, take a stand both for and against the policy that it is pursuing at all times. Self-employed persons are best taken care of in the case of state transfers without any reperformance from either the Government or the organisations. But it is actually perceived as a honor that the state is represented in the government. It is a quality sign for some organisations. And it therefore seems strange that one chooses to sit on the board of an organisation whose policy is initially fairly similar to that of the Government, while one does not have representatives in that part of the environmental organisations that have a different approach to predatory policies. How important is it for the Ministry of the Environment to have a representative in the WWF?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1160	The reason for this representation is, as I said in my previous answer, essentially historical and formal, and it's related to the kind of foundation and organisation that WWF is. I will now look at the appropriateness of continuing this, and I will also see this in connection with the government's representation in similar organisations, both in the environmental field and in other areas. Otherwise, I must say that I absolutely do not see it as a natural matter that the state has a direct link to the environmental organisations, rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1167	I thank the council again for the answer, which I think is basically right. Because here you get stuck in an organization, and it's perceived as a strength for that organization, and I don't think that the state should give it. But if it were to be so that the representative of the Ministry of the Environment continued to sit on the board of the WWF, what kind of role do you think that representative should have? Will any steps be taken to put an end to this historical practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1174	I would like to say that even with today's practice, it is not at all likely that the state will use its representation in organisations to prevent an environmental exposure that this organisation wants to continue. But it will also be the responsibility of the government representative to express views on behalf of what has been appointed. So it's this practice that I want to look at, which is essentially formal, but the question of whether it can have unfortunate connections will be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1182	‘The risk of oil spills from the many wars in Narvik port is imminent. A sudden leakage from one of the many wrecks can lead to major destruction, especially if this occurs during the period of herring pulling into the Ofotfjord. During these periods, large quantities of stem cutters follow the sillings. What has the Council of State intended to do to prevent an oil disaster from occurring as a result of leakages from the port of Narvik from war?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1189	Since 1991 there has been a systematic effort to provide an overview of the pollution potential from shipwreck along the Norwegian coast. Together with the Bergen Maritime Museum, the State's pollution authorities have recorded nearly 2,600 shipwrecks along the Norwegian coast and have identified the pollution potential of the wrecks. The studies carried out in 1993 and 1996 on the 30 wrecks with assumed high pollution potential showed, among other things, that: that there was a need for further physical examination of six wrecks, all of which are war wrecks. Four of these wrecks are located in the Narvik area and were examined in 1999. The studies showed that only the wreck of the German hunter ‘Erich Giese’ contains significant quantities of oil. The other two wrecks, «Boardale» and «Holmengraa», are located outside the Western Sea and Borre respectively in Oslofjord. They were examined last year and the studies showed that there is only oil of significance on board the «Boardale». Emptying shipwreck is technically complex and costly operations. It is therefore important that measures are prioritised and put in place where environmental benefits are greatest. Measures other than emptying may also be relevant, for example: strengthening of the oil preparedness, as has already been done in Narvik. On the basis of preliminary assessments, State pollution control does not consider that the risk of large-scale acute oil spills constitutes a need for immediate action. However, the SFT will make recommendations during the spring in the light of the studies on what should possibly be done with the oil on board of ‘Erich Giese’ and ‘Boardale’. I believe it is important to prevent any damage caused by the oil on board the wrecks and, in the light of the SFT's recommendation, will decide what action, if any, should be taken. Shipwreck may also represent a congestion problem. Pending SFT's assessments of the two oil-containing wrecks, during the year we aim to remove the wreck of the Soviet 'Boiky' hunter, which is located on the island of Forest in the Westphalia.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1202	I had a similar question like this up to approx. two years ago, and I am also aware that others have asked similar questions about the problems of the wrecks in Narvik. It's still at the level, and I think that's regrettable. Small leaks from these boats are constantly occurring, without this leading to any major environmental disasters. But there are wrecks that are almost full of oil, inside Narvik harbor. Here is one, "Erich Giese", which has approx. ten cubics of oil in each of the 26 tanks. And according to SFT Tromsø's 1999 survey, it turned out that there are between 150 and 300 tonnes of oil in this boat. And so it's in the middle of the Narvik port area. I think it is regrettable that we have not made progress in this, taking this into account and doing something about it. So I want to ask if the Minister will take the initiative to prioritize the emptying of this boat, and that you get ahead of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1211	I want to address these problems by starting with those that bring the greatest environmental benefit, and I will do so in relation to the budgets that the Stortinget has set up. In the case of the ‘Erich Giese’ ship, action will be needed and those actions will be implemented in the light of the technical recommendations on the best practical measures to be taken. Otherwise, we're going further in general in the process of removing shipwreck. I am pleased that this year we are given the opportunity to remove a shipwreck that lies in a different area from that of which the representative is concerned – nevertheless it represents a problem of siblings – namely the wreck «Boiky».
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1220	I thank you for your answer again. I hope it will be so that I don't have to ask the same question again in two years, or that I have to come up here and ask questions or come up with criticism because there has already been a disaster in Narvik, that the areas have been hit by oil spills because of being late.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1225	It is also the government’s view that the most important thing we can do in improving coastal preparedness is prevention. That is why we have started an important work in this area. It will also be important to have a good preparedness if the accident is over and to clean up after previous accidents. But this work must be prioritised according to the budgets adopted and, of course, done in order to maximise environmental benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1233	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: «The three-storey building of King Wings in Upper Town is not covered by the plan of the Riksantikvaren in relation to the protection of the country's wooden houses against fire. Where the State imposes protection or conservation on dwellings, should not the State also be financially aidable by measures against, in this case, any fire also?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1242	Let me first say that there is no disagreement between Bredvold and me about the Upper Town and the important cultural historical values and qualities that exist there. Very well known is the Upper Town among the first three-housed environments regulated for special conservation. The Ministry of the Environment is working on a rapprochement plan for the entire cultural memory field that we are continuing in the budgetary work also in the future. As part of its contribution to the Ministry's work on this initiative, the Riksantikvaret has made calculations showing that for 70 million. 12 of Norway's most valuable wooden houses can be secured. The Riksantikvar has not drawn up any plans or list of the cities to be included in any hedging project. The 12 cities that were listed in the evening post, where I assume that Bredvold has picked up parts of his information, are cities where there has been a dialogue on protection between the municipality and the Riksantikvar, or where there has been a particular local involvement on the security side. The fact that Kongswinger has also reported his interest and expressed his commitment to the matter after this paper was published is positive, and I am convinced that the Riksantikvarn will have no counter-representation against entering into a similar dialogue with Kongswinger. We have 54 conservation areas – about 13 000 houses. Only a few of these are peaceful, and only a small percentage are regulated for special conservation. The Riksantikvar may provide subsidies for the fire safety of individual buildings, such as: made up of the staves and medieval buildings. What is important in terms of fireproofing the wooden houses is not the individual building, peaced or not, but looking at the whole. In the last 15 years, the Riksantikvaren has been involved in the problem of fire protection for wooden houses, and the Riksantikvaren’s involvement is not justified by the protection of one or more of these buildings – it is not an isolated protected building that is in focus but represents the cultural historical value as a whole in each of these wooden houses. As the Riksantikvaren sees it, it would not be appropriate for them to provide fire protection subsidies to individual sheltered buildings in the wooden houses without at the same time assessing the fire safety of surrounding buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1251	I thank the Council of State for a comprehensive and good response. and the Council of State's knowledge of Kongswinger in this case, I will take it further. What has caused this debate, especially in Kongsvinger, to flare up – if one can use that word in a positive sense here – is the great wooden fire that was in Jönköping for a short time ago. It is clear that those who live in such an environment made up of old wooden houses live in constant fear of fire, and those who own these houses do what they can from the costs they have the opportunity to bear. They are also grateful for the checks carried out, including: by Hedmark Energi A/S — HEAS — in this case. However, in the case of more comprehensive measures, such as: sprinkler facilities in these houses are not provided by the private sector. And when the state imposes either the conservation or the protection of one or more houses, there's no more money to take care of it. That's the big problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1258	I think it will be a challenge in the future to find the most appropriate forms of cooperation between municipal fire protection and a commitment to fire safety, among other things. by the Riksantikvaren. In this area, there have been arrangements in place, and there will be a priority work to be done in the future, so I am convinced that it will be possible to find good arrangements within the budgets adopted by the local and local authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1263	I thank you once again for the answer and the positive signals given by the Council of State here, and I think that cooperation will be the solution to this, so I look positive at this matter in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1268	I just confirm that this is a priority area, that the Riksantikvaren has a job going on, and that we will follow this up from the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1276	I have this question for the Minister for the Environment: ‘The recommendations of the Urban Environment Programme and the Advisory Document of the Ministry of Environment on Centre Development focus on committed cooperation between landowners, businesses, public agencies and municipalities. In central areas where the state is a major owner of land, this also involves State participation in cooperation. What initiatives will be taken to implement such a binding urban core policy, initially in the four largest Norwegian cities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1285	The historical centre is at the heart of an environmentally friendly urban structure and gives cities and agglomerations their identity. It is important to take care of the large cultural and economic values represented by the urban centres. This must be done by active use and maintenance of the centre areas by facilitating trade, cultural activities, public and private services and housing. The Ministry of the Environment has gained experience through the Environment Town Programme in planning and developing centres in Norwegian cities, and has seen what is being done abroad. As the representative of Dørum refers to, one of the experiences is that binding cooperation between public authorities, landowners and local businesses should be established to plan, implement measures and manage the operation of urban centres. I believe that the state should be an important party to this. As farm and landowners, the state has significant interests and thus responsibility for important aspects of the urban environment, especially at the centre of major cities. I am following up this issue through a cross-ministerial working group that the Ministry of the Environment has just set up to concreteise state policy on environmental urban development, such as: will focus on the follow-up to the experience of the Environmental Urban Programme. As part of this, the urban core challenges will also be discussed in the Urban Development Cooperation Forum, where six cities and several departments participate. This forum also invites business, professional environments and organisations to engage in dialogue on policies and instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1298	I thank the Council of State for an answer with many positive leads. I am particularly pleased with what she says about the state being an important party by being a property owner, and also that it is clear from the Council of State's response that it is the responsibility of the state. That it also works cross-ministerially, I think it is positive. For example, the starting point for doing something may be: shall be the centre of Oslo towards the anniversary of the Union in 2005. We have an excellent example in Oslo Center, where municipal contributions of $28 million. SEK until Karl Johan's gate triggered 67 million. kr from private, so that they renewed the street floor and the façade and got a lighting. If, for example: The signal from State Building, which has been interested in participating in the same way, can also lead to a signal being given by the Government, I believe that by taking this Oslo example, you can build on it both in Oslo and in other cities. So I want to ask whether the Council of State will contribute to such a policy towards the Union's anniversary in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1305	I'd like to take Dørum's input into our further work on these questions. I see it as very important that we work on the concreteisation of cross-ministerial cooperation in this area. Equally important is to cooperate closely with the cities that this is about, and finally it is important that we bring with us the private business of networking with public authorities, both at municipal and national level. Here the government will come back to concrete proposals, one of which will be Dørum's input.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1310	We're actually in an area that gives us a historic opportunity. From here towards the Castle, with Studenterlunden and Spikersuppa, the state owns the land. The government receives the income from the rental activity, while the Municipality of Oslo pays all the maintenance costs. This is due to a change in husbandry that happened in 1939, when the Municipality of Oslo was given the right to take a road across the National Theatre station. Fortunately, there was nothing of that. But it has often led to many strange forms of backgame between state and municipality. I believe that one way to break it – just as the municipality has entered Karl Johan's gate – is that the state enters, because then one will jointly trigger a substantial private effort. It's just this -- we're going to call it -- the split-and-thread mentality, to which I also perceive that the Council of State is positive, was at the heart of my thinking. There are historical possibilities for coping between the state and the municipality, but there are also possibilities for turning it around. I perceived the Council of State thinking like this. So I just want to encourage her to get into the Karl Johan example, bring along the good that was created from the Karl Johan example, and avoid what might be a historical black player's game – when we see from this side of the Stortinget towards the Castle.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1317	I confirm the Government's desire to follow up in this area, and reaffirm that the country's significant interests in the centre areas will be an important starting point for the further investment, and that this must be done through cooperation, which I, among other things, am. has mentioned in this reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1325	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘According to the Fiskeribladt, the herding of the seaweed forest by herds is in the process of becoming a serious problem. On large parts of the coast of North Trøndelag and Helgeland important marine primary production fauna has been replaced by an undersea “desert landscape” and coastal fishing has suffered a dramatic decline. How does the Council of State assess this situation, and what will the Government do in the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1334	The grazing of seaweed forest takes place from parts of the Trøndelag coast and along large coastal stretches northwards to West Finland. The Helgeland coast represents the area where the grazing is the strongest. Roughly speaking, it is approx. 50 pst. of the tares forest in the three northernmost counties. The situation has been relatively stable since the late 1970s, and research results suggest that such degradation can be very long-term. However, there are also examples of the opposite. In Canada, where a similar grazing of the seaweed forest took place in the 1960s and 1970s, practically all the hookballs died out within a relatively short time after they had been infected by an amoeba. The tare forest then established itself again after a relatively short period of time. There have been various theories about the reason for this change, without having been able to establish any single reason. One theory is that changes are caused by long, natural fluctuations in the ecosystem. Another theory is that the decline in fish stocks, such as pieces of stone, which are derived from hookballs, have contributed to the overtaking of crowballs in the exposed areas. These issues have been addressed by the authorities over the last 10 to 15 years, including: by mapping the prevalence of crow-balls and by researching the relationship between seaweed and crow-balls. The result of this work shows that the seaweed forest represents a very productive system of high biodiversity. When it passes over larger areas, it has negative ring-effects, including for local fisheries. It is not possible to predict the development of the depopulated areas. It is therefore important to continue monitoring. Today there is monitoring of the southern border for the spread of hookballs in the South Tribe layer in connection with the seaweed radiation in the area. In this connection, I would like to mention that in some areas with large hookball production, a large-scale harvest of hookballs has been started. As these are taken up before they spawn, the harvest helps to keep the population down locally. If this can help in the development back to the seaweed forest, it remains to be seen. The government indicates that marine research has been identified as one of the main areas of action in the future, and that the Research Council prioritises funds, among others. from its research fund to this. Research on the oceanic/crowdball problem along the coast is an important part of this effort. I have noticed that this is a major problem in the areas concerned, and will discuss with the Research Council and the Ministry of Fisheries how to proceed in the light of the knowledge we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1349	I thank the Council of State for a quite complementary answer. It has long been claimed that there is a link between the de-fishing of the cricket stock and the flowering of crowballs. But that explanation does not have the same excitement today. We really know very little about a comprehensive and serious phenomenon, as the Council of State also mentions, in our coastal ecology. Shouldn't the authorities then initiate a larger project, aimed at getting knowledge of why the crowballs could be able to graze down the tares?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1356	Stone bit theory is one of several theories in this area and shows that there is still considerable uncertainty. That is why I agree with the representative that it is important to give priority to research. There are great opportunities for a marine research in the future to develop more concrete research projects in this area, which can also lead to concrete actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1365	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘In the setting up of the forest notification, the majority would not be in favour of Røjre’s wish to replace price regulation with free price formation. [[Inc. S. No 208 for 1998-1999]] The majority nevertheless stated that ‘there may be a basis for assessing a specific calculation rate for the valuation of forests’. Almost two years have passed since the forest announcement, and some increased activity in Forest Norway has not been achieved. When will the State Council follow up the recommendation in the forest notification?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1374	In the forest announcement, St.meld. No 17 for 1998-99, among other things expressed that the turnover price of forest reflects too little the value of the investments, that the price regulation provisions have been more restrictive than the basis on which they are based, and that the Ministry will provide guidance on this which helps to stimulate the practice of active forestry to a greater extent. As the representative Hernæs refers to, the majority of the business committee commented on the price question of forest in concession context – and I refer to the Innst. S. No 208 for 1998-99 – including, inter alia: that there may be a basis for assessing a specific rate of calculation for the valuation of forest. The price question of agricultural property in the context of the concession is also mentioned in the agricultural notification, St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, and further commented by the Economic and Social Committee on the position to be taken in relation to the agricultural notification, Innst. S. No 167 for 1999-2000. The Ministry's budget proposal for this year sets out the price question of forest and it is stated that the Ministry will revise the guidelines on the practice of price regulation for the marketing of forest in concession cases and that, in this context, a proposal for a calculation rate of about 5 pst will be submitted to the hearing. The case has now been brought to the attention of the county councillors and relevant organisations and agencies with a deadline for consultation on 1 February this year. The consultation shows that there is broad support for the proposal to reduce the calculation rate base for forests. After this and in line with the guidance given in the forest communication, the Ministry of Agriculture and the budget proposal, will in a short time provide guidance on the practice of the price rules for forest in concession cases with a reduction in the calculation rate for forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1389	Thank you for your reply to the Council of State. As a first step, this is good and is going in the right direction, and it should be able to lead to the negative development we have had in forestry being turned into increased sales of properties, more active owners and higher harvests than any of the objectives. Nevertheless, I would like to remind the Council of State that in the guidelines of the Ministry of Finance of December, I believe – at least the turn of the year 1999/2000 – the risk-free real interest rate was set at 3.5 pst. In my opinion, this corresponds better to the real interest rate that is usually used in forest culture investment calculations. I have two questions, and then I'm going to leave it with it: will the Council consider putting down the calculation rate further? And can he be more precise on what is in the words "in a short time"? Can we wait for a clarification within six months?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1398	Finally, I would like to say that I believe that it is absolutely necessary to wait. The consultation period is now out of date, as I said. The hearing opinions are broadly in favour of the proposal, and then it should be possible to implement it quite quickly. An ambition to do that in a few months, until the mid-year shift, should be affordable. When it comes to the first thing the representative here next saw, I think it would be wrong for me now, when we are working on a reduction of 5 pst., to signal further action in that direction. Now we're going to do it with a 5 pst. the calculation rate, but then of course we also have to stick to the goal of increasing activity. So we get to follow developments, and maybe the questioner and the council will have the opportunity to meet and discuss it in this room at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1408	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘Although the Minister of Agriculture has stated that prices of Norwegian-produced foodstuffs are to be reduced, meat prices are to be increased. Norwegian Meat, which is responsible for market regulation, sets up prices. Furthermore, the exceptional negotiations in the agricultural settlement on measures against BSE have led to the recovery of some of the costs at increased target prices. What measures will the Council of State take, and when can we count on lower food prices to the consumer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1417	It is correct, as the representative Hedstrøm says, that I am dedicated to contributing to lower consumer prices for food. For the sake of order, I would like to stress that I believe that Norwegian food producers – both agriculture, industry and trade – must be more clearly present in the low-price segment of the market, but also in the part of the market that is characterised by a desire for increased diversity, which can be achieved through increased product development. I also feel that the industry is positive about this. And I mean to have put in place significant measures to contribute. Among other things, the target prices of the agricultural agreement were reduced by 900 million. Last year, a value creation programme for Norwegian food has been established, and several R & D institutions are committed to increasing evidence of developments in food prices and margins at different stages. In the last few years, the producer and wholesale prices of beef and pigmeat have been reduced, while consumer prices have been relatively stable, nominally speaking. With wholesale prices, I mean prices at the whole level of slaughter. The target prices of the agricultural agreement relate precisely to the wholesale price level and are a ceiling on the level of prices that can be averaged over the year. After a period of significant overproduction, the market balance has now improved significantly. This has contributed to a slight increase in Norwegian beef wholesale prices in recent months. However, this increase has occurred within the target price limits. As long as the obligations of market regulation are fulfilled, the agricultural cooperative will be able to act as other market actors. They will have neither less nor greater obligations outside the scope of the agricultural agreement to contribute to lower prices than those of other actors. However, according to the point of listing of the agricultural contract, there is a great deal of value creation in which all stages have committed themselves to contributing to lower consumer prices. Up to two thirds of the price paid by the consumer for meat on average is made up in the stages following the application of the agricultural agreement. The importance of price reductions is different from typical domestic products and to border products, where we lose markets. What I've been particularly concerned about is getting reduced prices of some typical border products, such as: cuts, farces of bovine animals and chicken. It is in this area that the industry has told me that one is willing to contribute. But so far, not much has happened. The most important thing I have left is to increase the knowledge and attention about what's happening in the different terms. In addition, it is important for public authorities to contribute to the efficient functioning of the market. The representative Hedstrom also mentions cost-intensive measures against BSE in his question. In the exceptional BSE situation, strong measures are being taken in Europe to ensure safe food for consumers. This will increase the cost of food production and these costs need to be met. The government and I consider it reasonable and necessary to divide costs – including in Norway – into a split layer between industry, the state budget and consumers. In Norway, we have gone further in covering costs outside the market than is the situation in our neighbouring country. The size will be submitted in a short time to this effect. I want to continue my commitment to lower prices and increased diversity with the means I have to deal with. Not least, I will follow closely when the VAT on food is halved from 1 July. I have a clear expectation that the consumer prices will then fall by up to 10 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1432	I don't have any follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1440	I allow myself to ask a question to the Minister for Agriculture: ‘A forest plot of 6000 deer in the municipality of Etnedal has been sold to Kistefos Tresliberi, a limited company with large forest properties spread in several other municipalities, together with 86 000 dean. A small user from the country who wants to expand his property in order to live on it has applied for pre-emption rights and received support from the local government and county agricultural government, but the state has refused. Does the Council of State consider it beneficial for our rural communities that a limited liability company should buy the property rather than one that lives from its small use?"
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1449	The case concerns the property Strande forest in the municipality of Etnedal, on which AS Kistefo's Wooden Sliberi has purchased and applied for concession. The property is a forest and open-air property of over 6,000 deer, which lies in a continuous parcel on the west side of Etna. Consecutive applicant AS Kistefos Tresliberi is a forest company with forest properties in Jevnaker, Ringerike, Nordre Land, Gjøvik and South Aurdal, with a total forest/landing area of approx. 86 000 covers, of which approx. 63 000 dekars are productive forest land. The management of the limited liability company is located in Dokka in the municipality of Nordre Land. The company has four full-time forest workers and two employees in the administration. The purpose of concession applicants with the acquisition of Strande forest is to operate the property in addition to their other forest properties. The property is 36 km from the applicant's administration site. In dealing with the concession case in the municipality, Hans Magne Lunde announced that he was interested in the concession property as an additional forest for his property. The landowners' property is a total of 932 decars, of which 100 decars agricultural area, 789 decars productive forest area and 50 decars other area. Soil farmers are engaged in the production of meat in sheep and forestry. Beaches forest is 16 km from the landowner's property. When land seekers reported their interest in the concession property, he indicated that the price could not be accepted. The municipality's main plan and industry committee recommended to the local government that the State's pre-purchase rights should not be exercised and that concession applicants should be granted a concession. The Municipal Council decided, by two votes, to exercise the State’s right of pre-emption. The decision stressed that pre-buying would strengthen the landowner’s holding and ensure the settlement and permanent jobs in the area. The applicant for a concession appealed against the municipality’s decision to exercise the State’s pre-emptive right. The County Agriculture Board dealt with the complaint and decided not to accept the complaint by five votes to one. In its decision, the board stressed the decision of the municipality and that the exercise of the right of pre-emption benefits the community best. The seller of the property and concession applicant requested under this department – based on Section 35 of the Administrative Act – to convert the decision of the County Agriculture Board. I point out that in the agricultural message, St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, it was proposed to suspend the pre-emption right. This joined the majority of the Economic and Social Committee through Innst. S. No 167 for 1999-2000. This proposal has been followed up in an odelstningsproposition for 2000-2001 by the Stoltenberg Government. As a consequence of the proposal to suspend the pre-emption right, the Ministry has provided guidelines for the exercise of the pre-emption right for the period until the formal decision can be taken. It has been considered that an assessment should be made more stringently than at present in pre-purchase cases, by introducing an additional margin of safety towards the certainty that pre-purchase should produce a better result than that achieved by the agreement concluded and subject to concession treatment. The Ministry's decision to convert the County Agriculture Board's decision and not to benefit from the State's pre-emptive right has been based on long-term ownership and management of forests by concession seekers, AS Kistefos Tresliberi. It provides jobs and activities of importance for the district where the company has forested areas. In this respect, I believe that there is some reason to see the district of concession property and the company's other forest properties, as a common settlement area and labour market. I believe that the company's activities must be considered to be of a social nature and in accordance with the provisions of the concession law and the law on soil. As far as the benefits of our rural communities are concerned, as the representative Gravdahl says in the question, it is not a matter of preferring a corporation rather than one that lives on its small use. I see clearly the need of soil seekers for additional soil and forest. However, the question of pre-emption rights must be specifically assessed in the light of the provisions of the Concession Act and the Soil Law. As I have already mentioned, I also believe that AS Kistefo's Wood Slidery operates in line with the purpose of the law on the soil and the concession law. From this point of view and in the light of the pre-buying situation, the Ministry had doubts as to whether there was a basis for exercising the State’s pre-buying right. I believe that the decision not to exercise the right of pre-emption in this case is correct. It is also pointed out that the landowner has stated that he cannot accept the agreed purchase price. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the concession issue in the case is to be dealt with and decided by the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1475	I thank the Council of State for a supplementary answer, but I have an additional question. I am seaworthy of the fact that the Storting has decided to suspend the pre-purchase right, and that it has been put to death in the near future. But I am concerned about the impact when we see this case, because it undoubtedly matters to a removal municipality that small farms become the way of life for people who will continue to live in the countryside. When examining the agricultural notification, a large majority, all except the Advance Party, pointed out ‘the value of a local ownership of natural resources that can contribute to the settlement and vitality of the community’. This majority felt that in the future, it would also have to ‘aim at forms of ownership’, where this is the general rule. In this case I've taken up, the forest property is what's going on for this little user to live on his property. I wonder, therefore, when the Council of State considers that there is particular reason to exercise pre-emption rights, and what instruments exist when the right of pre-emption is lifted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1487	As I tried to express in my main answer, I guess I don't think I can see in what kind of situation it would be natural today to use the state's right of pre-emption. Whether the Government should now go and actively use the State’s pre-emptive right when a majority in the Storting has said that the scheme should be repealed, and when the proposition to remove it has been promoted by the Government of the Storing – although the government party has not actively belonged to this majority in the Storing – I would say that the Storing could rightly call it a strange behavior. So it's almost impossible to imagine when it's supposed to be up to date until the Storting adopts the law changes. However, there are other instruments, such as: Consent refusals and concession terms, which can also be used in the future, but it will then be in special cases and after a very concrete assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1494	I thank you for your answer. I have a small additional question in connection with this particular matter. Such forest property has hunting and fishing rights that have an interest and significance for this small user who wants the property as a way of life and for all human rights. Can the Council of State give an assessment of that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1501	At least I have to try. It is likely that land-based hunting and fishing rights cannot be dissociated from the property for longer periods than 10 years at a time. Otherwise, the exploitation of hunting and fishing rights is a fundamental issue. And I have no plans to make any proposal for legislative changes that interfere with or regulate this type of land ownership rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1511	I allow myself to raise the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘In order for children with a minority background to be integrated and successful in schooling, it is essential to master Norway. Ideally, the children should preside over Norwegian before they begin school. A unanimous Storting decided in May 1999: ‘The government asks the Government to examine various pilot projects in order to improve Norwegian education for pre-school children, and to present this to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ When will the Government propose such pilot projects?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1520	Both national and international research shows that children with a migrant background who receive systematic language stimulation in pre-school age have a clear advantage when they start school. Already in the autumn of 1998, the Ministry of Children and Family started a three-year trial to improve the Norwegian knowledge of pre-school children. The trial provides free short-term services in kindergarten to all four- and five-year-olds in Old Oslo. Health centres, social offices and schools are important partners. All children enrolled at school are offered nursery facilities if they have not already received such an offer. To date, all children in the target group with whom contact has been possible have been included in the free offer all or part of the year. The trial with free offers in Old Oslo is evaluated by NOVA and the University of Hedmark. The evaluation bodies also follow the children who have gone to the experimental children’s home, into school. The results of the evaluation shall be available at the end of 2001/2002. On the basis of this evaluation, the Government will decide on further follow-up. In St.meld. No 27 for 1999-2000, Kindergarten for the benefit of children and parents, the Government follows up Document No. 8:28 for 1998-99, to which the representative Foss refers in his question. The Ministry of Children and Family shall, in cooperation with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, systematise knowledge of different language training models for five-year-olds from linguistic minorities. Furthermore, the Ministry of Children and Family is working to acquire and systematise knowledge and experience from municipalities and urban areas on different forms of kindergarten that may meet the needs of minority families. In particular, in the context of the three-year quality effort in the kindergarten sector, we will look at measures that can help to strengthen the competence of nursery workers in multicultural work. It is equally important to recruit more young people with a minority background for work in kindergarten. The size will be briefed on the work of the annual budget proposals. I would also like to remind you that the free kindergarten measure for four- and five-year-olds in Old Oslo will continue in the period under review. I have noticed that various representatives from the Right have been concerned about the Norwegian knowledge of children with a minority background. I fully share that concern with the Right. I have also noticed that the Right wants to check out whether the four- and five-year-olds speak Norwegian well enough. Then there's a couple of points I want to clarify. It must be more important – and I hope the representative Foss agrees with me – to ensure that these children actually learn Norwegian than to check if they can. I would also like to say that the representative Foss belongs to a party with the City Council in Oslo. It would be excellent if the party that Foss is the leader of the capital took good action to ensure that children with a minority background were given both kindergarten space and not least were given this free or at least at prices below today's kindergarten prices in Oslo. I have also noticed that City Councillor Erling Lae wants to offer the four- and five-year-olds in 12 of Oslo's urban areas free of charge short-term kindergarten. He asked for the Government's help to implement the plans. Again, the municipalities cannot call on the state every time they see a problem they themselves have a clear responsibility for. The government has shown through action that it is betting on kindergartens, and I will allow myself to demand the same action from the Municipality of Oslo. But of course, we're going to have a dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo, and we're also going to add that the weakest kids are going to get a good offer in the capital. But they cannot be relieved of the independent responsibility of the Oslo City Council. Of course, I will consider the question from Lae seriously, but as I said, much depends on what the municipality itself does. Then there must also be a cross of thoughts for many – I can’t believe – that we have just received an evaluation of the cash support, such as, among other things. points out that it leads to fewer immigrant children in kindergartens. In this way, we are getting poorer language understanding and poorer integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1544	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I had preferred that the Council of State as a specialist council had adhered to the subject and not to the polemics. I believe that the work to improve Norwegian skills for children with different language backgrounds in addition to the Norwegian language is well served by bringing together solutions and not falling into cheap party political polemics or into polemics against individual municipalities. I can inform the Council of State, since she is not aware of it, that kindergarten prices in Oslo are lower than in most municipalities, if there is any concern in particular. But my question simply called for the follow-up of the Government on a matter where in May 1999, everyone felt the urgency of launching more pilot projects. I register that the government is not in a hurry. Since then, neither the previous government nor this government has launched any new or extended test project. My supplementary question is then: How long will the government investigate and wait? When will the Government act, with more pilot projects, as the Storting has requested?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1553	I can't quite agree, when I'm going to meet the representative Foss in Stortinget, to take advantage of polemics, which otherwise the representative Foss masters in an excellent way. So I expect the representative Foss to take it very well. I fully agree with the representative that it is important that we work together on good solutions in relation to these groups. But we have local democracy in Norway, and it's a fact that the Municipality of Oslo is the Right Exhibition Window in relation to what you get from politics. Then it can't be that every time the Right has problems finding good solutions, when making tough priorities, you call on the State for help. In my answer I have carefully explained how the Government follows up this piece. I want to refer to it and see no reason to repeat what I said in my main answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1560	It's sometimes something you have to do, including politicians. I don't think it's a question of what representatives or state councils can stand, but how long the problems can wait. I'm a little impressed by governments that polish and don't do anything. I remind you that Oslo has applied for an extended trial project in addition to a single city. The reason why this is important, in addition to this part of the city, is that population patterns change. People move in a city. Gradually, there are several other urban areas with a larger and equally large population of children with a foreign language background. That's why, in order to get a good material to evaluate this eventually, you need an expanded experiment. At its meeting on 14 February, this was presented to the Minister for Municipalities. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs was also expected to be present. It was not a question from Oslo City Councillor, but it was an application from the Municipality of Oslo – to stick to the formal form – about such an extended trial project in several parts of the city. Can I count on the Government from what has now been said, particularly in the context of the recent debate on integration problems, to take a positive view of such an application, which also requires the municipality to contribute financially?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1567	As I said, there's no training either from the Council of State or the Government on these issues, it has to be very clear. We have made a run and will follow up on what Stortinget has said, and that evaluation must be carried out in a proper way. We are, of course, totally dependent on independent bodies carrying out the evaluation, but we will present it at the turn of the year 2001/2002. If we can come up with good solutions together with the Municipality of Oslo, we're going to do that, but we're also kind of dependent on following up the clear recommendation that Stortinget has made in that field, and it's actually that we're going to have a broad evaluation, and then we're going to give the Storting a feedback on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1577	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘Offshore activity outside the North Coast is strongly increasing. So far, the local ring effects of the activity are very small. In a statement in connection with the Scurvy Area, BP states that they are likely to establish their own centre of operation for Middle Norway and Northern Ireland without Nordland being considered a location. This creates strong negative reactions in Northern Ireland. Is the Council of State satisfied with the ring-fenced effects that the activity has so far given to Nordland, and what will he do to ensure that Nordland can be investigated as an operating centre location?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1586	The government's policy is that an extension of the oil activity northwards should also have a positive impact on mainland areas. It has therefore been very important for localisation decisions to be taken on the basis of a broad assessment, which also focuses on the impact of local communities and regions concerned. It's per. currently established operational environment in Kristiansund, Stjørdal and Harstad and base business in Kristiansund, Brønnøysund and Sandnessjøen. Oil activity is derived from a holistic and long-term perspective, and to build long-term and competitive activities, it is not desirable to establish too many and scattered operating environments, but rather to increase the activity of the already established environments. In the context of any expansion of the Scurvy Field, BP will assess how Nordland will be managed for the location of the operational organisation, supply base and helicopter base.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1595	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I perceived the council so that he referred to that BP would consider investigating Nordland. And it would certainly just be missing, when we see that this is an area of the country that is now likely to be the region that in a few years will have the largest activity in and around it. Once you've come this far north, and once you reach this time you also have the geographic proximity that would make sure that security and cost would be in place, it would have to be minimal to ensure that the regional centres that are nearby are investigated. Then my follow-up question is to the Council of State: Will he make sure to put some kind of pressure on BP and make sure to follow up the activity that BP is now performing, and that we have seen, for example, that the state's own company, Statoil, has not taken the initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1604	In this case, the questioner and the Council of State want the same thing, i.e. that the activity should be spread northwards, and that those parts of the country that are currently not fully benefiting from the oil activity will experience it in the future. Then there are certain rules that you have to stick to, and I feel it will be wrong for me to advance the process that is to be associated with the work that BP has now seen. But localization and consideration of the local environment will of course be decisive and have a lot to say to the Government when it wants to consider these questions when it comes. I would also add that the oil companies themselves have a responsibility to ensure that the local environment in question benefits from this type of activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1613	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is gratifying to record that we have the same approach to the challenge outside the Helgeland coast and in the Nordic region as a whole. As the Council of State is probably aware, one is fairly firmly established in the environment around the base functions in particular, and it seems to be very difficult to solve. Can we assume that in the coming period, the Council of State will be a driving force for the Nordic environment to be explored in the heavy sections? We have seen that developments on the basis of Brønnøysund and the Sandness Lake are positive, but it is too cumbersome to count in the overall context, and it is not a development with which one can at least be satisfied on the part of the Nordland coast – when we see the heavy activity being carried out – how geographical proximity to exploration and production must appear as a clear advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1620	The size has discussed these questions with even spaces. I believe that in this room there is a desire for the activity to be spread across as much of the country as possible. At the same time, Size has determined that there must be a certain size and extent of the activities that a localizes to the different locations, to the different bases. As a result, part of my job is to work so that the bases that are already established get activity, so that they can keep up the operation at their bases. That is what is the basis for the work I want to do. Otherwise, I would like to repeat that the oil companies themselves have a great responsibility to assert that there is an understanding of the population, among other things. in Northern Europe, because of their high seas activity, of course, is related to the activity they carry out on land in the same area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1629	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1643	It took seven years from the first initiative of a separate refugee class to be taken from the Labour Party's side and to final decisions were taken in the Stortinget. Hard balances were made in several governments and in several rounds in Stortinget. In the Central Party, we initially expressed counter-statements against the disclaimer that could be in moving such difficult and important decisions out of a department. We were persuaded that an organisation with its own subjects to deal with complaints would provide more non-discrimination, better legal certainty and strengthen the trust of the Board of Appeal. We stressed that the foreign student is a court-like body, with playwrights represented and in asylum matters with the possibility of a personal appearance for the complainant as a general rule. In other cases, the complainant may be given access to a personal appearance. The foreign student is established from 1 January onwards. There are alarming messages that commentators from various humanitarian organisations, those who would represent the grassroots itself – the lay people – are not included. They are not invited to discuss how to set up your work, sort things, etc. Some ask questions about the fact that they are now going to have to deal with a number of people in the leadership of this name as before dealing with asylum cases and who have now extended responsibilities and independent tasks. Int. O. No 42 for 1998-99, the majority said that the leader can deal with and decide on matters that do not raise significant doubts or that have been dealt with in the past, when there is no reason to believe that the decision will be amended. The plural underscores several other important points in the setting. They say that when it comes to the first group of cases, it is about ‘cash cases’. If the conditions for converting a negative decision from the UDI to a positive decision open to the public lead, there is no reason, says the majority, to extend the length of the procedure by drawing the whole name into the decision-making process. If there is a complaint that one must regard as unfounded, it may not be necessary to submit it. So the majority say that they want to stress that this is a rule of chance, and that the denominator by negative decisions must be particularly careful in assessing whether the complaint is unfounded. They also state that there are decisions that will be purely administrative in nature and support the government's proposal that the principal delegate may delegate such matters to the secretariat. The majority also support this government in deciding that no account should be taken of information, documents or other evidence that could have been given or provided during the previous proceedings. They think that this authority should only apply to cases where it is revealed that the new documents do not contain information that will change previous decisions in the matter. In such a case, it would be useful if the principal were not able to take this information into account. It can make it easier, says the majority, to avoid any training. They say this is a rule of chance that must be used with caution. The plural also highlights the possibility of cropping evidence, etc. does not go beyond the competence of the principal to determine claims for conversion on his own. – So far about what was said that time. Now, in addition to disturbing messages from people who are appointed by humanitarian organisations, messages of unrest and uncertainty from spokesmen and network groups in several communities. They feel that people who have asked for shelter from them, and who use their resources for the benefit of the local community in work and leisure, are not invited to submit the case to the Foreign Study. They are concerned that the rules laid down by both government and government are in practice at risk of being used fairly liberally. In parallel with the creation of the Foreign Study, there is an upgrading of the fight against racism in this country. The government has taken important initiatives there. The Prime Minister said in his orientation on the state of the state of the state the opinion fell into the Questionnaire on 14 February. n.a. following: ‘The government will take the initiative to commit schoolchildren to developing driving rules for a multicultural Norway characterised by tolerance.’ Minister of Education Giske has followed up. In the country, it is felt as a self-contradictor that many parents in these days spend time and effort explaining to their children that their compassion, with which they have become friends, with which they have been happy, who came from another country, is to be sent back where he came from, to relationships they wonder about, to relationships that parents also wonder about – there is no room for them in Norway. At the same time, they must strengthen the fight against racism. Such experiences may, of course, have a background in today’s legislation. They may have a background in today's agreed orientation lines. In the future, they may also have a background in the way that the foreign student organises his or her work in relation to the cases to be dealt with. I want to challenge the municipal minister in four areas from this point of view: 1st@item: inlistbox Does she understand that the members of the group know that they have been excluded from discussing the work and that this reinforces the feeling that more people have had at the beginning of being a hostage in a name, because one is basically a minority?2. Would she, as the administrative director of the Study of Foreign Affairs, take the initiative to ensure that the members of the Board of Directors are consulted when it comes to the work organisation?3. The Kosovo Albanians come under a special return programme. Will it ensure that the individual allegations from this group will also be dealt with in the Study of Foreign Affairs?4. Many communities have networks around people who have sought shelter. How will it ensure that trust between local communities and political decisions is strengthened by the new organisation of the review process? So I'd like to add: the Central Party has been involved in the decisions that have been made. I've done the right thing for the counter-positions we initially had. As a general rule, we should always have, when a new system is in place, that the system should be able to operate over a period of time before we discuss more closely how the system has worked, and I know that the foreign student should be evaluated. At the same time, the organization of this work is so fundamentally important, and indeed vital to so many individuals that it is based on a wish that the organization will be as good as possible over the head, that I address this matter today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1698	Let me first underline that the foreign student has only been in business for seven weeks, and not all employees are in place yet. That's why I think it's too early to draw final conclusions around the denominator already now. When the Foreign Affairs Department was proposed and the Government's proposal dealt with in the Stortinget, it was never that the members of the jury should have any tasks related to the establishment of the denominator itself. Their role in strengthening legal certainty is to participate in the handling of cases and is exclusively linked to the holding of hearings. The starting point is that, as the representative Kleppa also said, the foreign student is a court-like body, and the function and role of the members can be compared with that of the judges in an ordinary court. The chairperson may be regarded as the judge in a court of law, and that is the court of the court, and not the judges responsible for the organisation and functioning of the court. This is also the case in the Study on Foreign Affairs. The duties of the members referred to are fully governed by the Foreign Affairs Act and by the Foreign Regulation. The establishment of the Foreign Study was carried out by amending the Foreign Affairs Act on 30 April 1999. Twice thereafter, on 28 July and 21 December last year, amendments to the 1999 amendment have been made before the entry into force of the provisions on the subject on 1 January 2001. All legislative changes have been thoroughly addressed by Stortinget. In short, the tasks of the members of the denominator are, of course, to take part in the proceedings to be dealt with, to take part in the proceedings with a member of the denominator and another member of the denominator, and of course to take a decision on the cases. All the members of the panel received their own guidance from the denominator at the end of January. The guide provides information on some of the most important issues of which the members have to know, including student meetings and the tasks of their members. The guide sets out how the meetings will be organised and the tasks and responsibilities of the members. Under the provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act, the Secretariat of the Foreign Office is responsible for the preparation of matters to be dealt with at a meeting. The chairperson may, in accordance with detailed rules, allow the complainant to attend the hearing in person. In asylum cases, the complainant, with whom the representative is well-known, will, as a general rule, be entitled to do so, but there are some exceptions to this general rule in the regulation. This applies, for example: issues where there is no doubt or disagreement about fact. If the complainant is to meet in person, he or she has the right to meet with his or her lawyer or another agent. If necessary, of course, interpreters will be called. Before the meeting, the head of staff will present the documents to the members of the Board and inform them of the rules, practices, etc. in relation to the individual case. The meetings will be held for closed doors. The meeting will begin by providing a brief presentation of the case, the relevant provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act and the Foreign Regulation and the most important issues. In cases of personal presence, the complainant may provide factual information and assessments relevant to the case. This allows questions to be asked to the complainant and allows the authorised representative to make a summary. The complainant and the authorised representative then leave the meeting. The committee then discusses the matter and decides by majority decision. It follows from the task as a member of the denominator of taking part in the written material present in the matter, carefully follow what appears at the meeting itself, helping to clarify ambiguities and misunderstandings along the way, and otherwise to ensure that matters of importance are adequately informed during the meeting. In addition to the written guidance sent to the members at the end of January, they will be provided with written information on different types of cases, country information, etc. When they come to participate in the handling of the cases, they will receive further information in addition to this. Members shall not undergo any other training until they start their activities. I would like to stress that similar arrangements apply to fellow judges in the ordinary courts, who are not given any training in connection with the place of work. As this shows, the working arrangements for the denominator and other organisational and administrative aspects are entirely outside the scope of the members. I would also like to mention that the denominator is to have a coordination committee with a leader and four members, one from each member group. This selection shall contribute to ensuring legal certainty and non-discrimination. It shall be assessed, inter alia: whether different denominators have taken into account the same interpretation of the law and the same exercise of discretion in the decisions. It is also assessed whether the practices of facilitators are the same in terms of treatment and access to personal appearance decisions. The Committee shall then advise the Director on what should be the practice in the relevant fields. The first plenary sessions were scheduled until the end of February. According to the information I have received, it has not been practicable to schedule meetings in the past, among other things. because complaints, lawyers and interpreters who are invited to attend the hearing shall have at least four weeks' notice. In my view, it is obvious too early to draw conclusions regarding the activities of the denominator. I remind you that under the Foreign Affairs Act, the name is used to determine the form of treatment in each case. The establishment of the Foreign Study was thoroughly addressed by the Stortinget as late as December 14, 2000, and I feel confident that the reasons for legal certainty and trust in the decisions taken are well taken. I cannot see that there is a preliminary need for initiatives on my part to intervene in the responsibility of the chairman of the committee to organise the work properly. I would also like to mention that, of course, the activities of the foreign student will be evaluated, and the experience and assessments of their members will then be able to be drawn. With regard to the concrete challenges that the representative Meltveit Kleppa had to me in addition to what is in the very interpellation, I feel that through this I have responded to a part of it. As regards the issue of the Kosovar Albanians, it goes its way. They are, of course, dealt with individually, and of course, matters go to the Study of Foreign Affairs if they are going there, but there are no procedures in relation to those matters other than those previously signaled and also notified to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1732	I would like to thank you for a neat and thorough briefing. I also notice that the Council of State is satisfied with the arrangement so far, but she says it is too early to draw conclusions yet. For the first time, I would say that it would have our eye-catching if not the Council of State at that time was satisfied when it has worked for seven weeks. I will ask her to follow this very carefully. She has been careful, at given conditions in the Storting in later times, to emphasize that the foreign student is independent, and that she cannot direct the subject, etc. in relation to law and regulation. I noticed at the same time that she today spoke out of the administrative responsibility that she has yet to open, and I asked her to use the responsibility that she has there, to follow carefully the arrangements themselves. I would like to ask the Council of State for more information on how the evaluation is going to be conducted. This is an area where decisions and work are very important for individuals. Can she say anything about the evaluation planned? It is just as she says that the last decision was taken just before Christmas. It was not a big change in relation to previous plans, but a significant change was that the playful part of the topics was reduced from two to one. It means, for someone from a humanitarian organization, that he or she does not actually have anyone else to consult with in the individual case. It was essentially based on resource issues, and I'm not going to say anything about it, and I've also been in that part. But I want to ask her also to follow the part of her work extra carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1739	I can answer the representative Meltveit Kleppa that I will of course follow this work very closely, and it is – as I said – to be evaluated. We have not yet taken a decision on how, but it is to be done. I believe that seven weeks is too short to have a bastant's opinion on how this works, especially when they have not even attended their first examination meeting. They're going to have it at the end of this month. I'll follow up on it, too. I want to say a little about the background because the Storting agreed to create this subject. One meant, among other things: that it was too closed processes, as it was in the Ministry of Justice, and that it was very important to get more transparency, that is, to get the playwrights into this. That's what we've done. I'm glad that the Storting joined the proposal to reduce the number. I think that will lead to that we get matters through faster, that there will be less bureaucracy than one originally provided. Another important thing is that one would increase the legitimacy of the decisions taken under the heading. I think we have a great opportunity to do that once we've done it the way it's now adopted. In the case of those representing humanitarian organisations, those picked from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs or from the Association of Lawyers, they are not such as to represent the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs or the humanitarian organisations as such. They represent themselves marine, but are suggested by them as I mentioned here. Summaries so far: I will of course follow this very closely. But I'll give them more time than they've got so far, before I draw any kind of conclusion. I believe that those who have been picked out to be members have received the information they should have, and that they have been drawn into the work in the way that the Storting has said they should be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1755	Let me start by saying that I am a little surprised that the representative Meltveit Kleppa will evaluate a scheme that has not yet started. It's almost alarming – for me at least – that we're going to evaluate something that we haven't tried out at all. On 1 January 2001, the newly created Foreign Service started to deal with complaints concerning decisions under the Foreign Affairs Act. It is a positive innovation, in the view of the Workers' Party, which is now in operation. We have seen a significant increase in the number of asylum seekers to Norway in recent years, and it is in view of this that there is a need for the Foreign Office as a new administrative body. It is positive that the department is released from individual cases, while at the same time strengthening the legal certainty of each asylum seeker through a better decision-making basis. The background to the creation of the name was both to strengthen the legal certainty of individuals and to strengthen confidence in decisions. We have no reason to believe that this is not the case. After the Workers' Party's assessment, a faster procedure is an instrument to achieve the objective of enhanced legal certainty and trust. It is in the interests of maximum legal certainty that the Stortinget just before the beginning of the year – already before the beginning of the year – made several changes to the provisions on the Foreign Letter. The fact that it takes some time for an denominator to find his role and his work arrangements is not strange. The denominator has now worked for a month and a half and must have some time to get started, which I do not doubt that they are working hard on. With regard to the work plan for the denominator, which the interpellant addresses, I am sure that the board of directors will organise themselves in the best possible way. We cannot demand from Stortinget that all members of the denominators be equally satisfied. It is the head of department who has been given his mandate to ensure that the work under the heading is optimised. The size has, through the law, given the framework conditions for the function of the denominator, and we grant the funds. Just before the turn of the year, Stortinget changed the composition of the names by reducing the number of members in each title. Each heading shall subsequently be numbered with three persons, against five previously adopted. This means that the influence of humanitarian organisations is strengthened, as they will always meet and after the changes make up one third of the denominator. This has been important for the Storting. As far as further organisation is concerned, I would like to make it clear that as long as the department stays within these guidelines, I think we should let them get started well. The interpellant claims that asylum seekers and communities are concerned and that they do not experience an improvement in legal certainty. The durability of such a claim may be questioned. This is completely new, it has been working for a month and a half, and the first decisions have only been made now. How, then, can it be said that users and the whole community do not experience any strengthening of legal certainty?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1770	When we created the Foreign Study, the main goal was to strengthen the legal security of the asylum seekers, another test with new people in the court. The foreign student is a name of a court-like nature, where the asylum-seeker/refugee is entitled to meet and tell the story again. Errors and misunderstandings shall be capable of being cleared by the road. People with special knowledge of countries should be represented by the name and humanitarian organisations should be represented by one representative in each of the names. We wanted to create respect for and trust in the subject. It's important. The Christian People's Party is very concerned that the foreign student should act as something new, and that trust in the subject is created. It has to happen relatively quickly. If you feel that you have just moved an office, you will lose a lot of money and you will not have to survive the evaluation. I thought it would be a shame. The Christian People's Party is absolutely in its demand that humanitarian organizations be involved as soon as possible in the study work, as extensive as possible, and that they get influence, perhaps also on the pile of unresolved issues that I have heard to be sent over to the denominator. I believe that there is no harm to anyone – in which difficult individual cases are involved – in meeting them and getting a new, fresh and objective assessment in spite of previous rejections. I know some individual things where such a practice would make sense. This is the only way to ensure that the name gives legal certainty to the refugees. The Christian People's Party is very aware that the denominator is new, and that she should have time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1783	It has been some seven years since the question of establishing a foreign student for the first time was up. In this way, I am a little surprised that there has been a little – as I would call it – ‘cutting and coating’ precisely with the transitional arrangements, since this has been such a clear matter. But we've been dealing with the last parts of the code just before Christmas, and it's been a stressful situation. I agree that this is not the time to evaluate or review this now, until you have seen how the denominator works in practice. But in one area, I think there are mistakes made in the transition system, and I think that will create extra big problems. I hope that the Council of State can give some views on how to get out of it. It is the fact that there were large remnants in the Ministry of Local Affairs with old cases that were not completed when the name was introduced, which should have been dealt with and concluded in the Ministry of Local Affairs, so that only new cases and complaints were transferred after 1 January. It means that there is a very difficult situation now, both for the name and for a very large number of asylum seekers and matters of a different nature in relation to the foreign student's subject, for the name has given the signal that it will include the new issues first. This means that those who have been most in the asylum recipients do not get their cases dealt with until a long time has passed. It is a problem that can be big, and on which one really should focus, because it is an objective to clarify these issues that there have been complaints against several bodies – to get rid of them and to know what to do. Therefore, my appeal to the Council of State will be to make sure that an extra pressure is put on to get rid of the old cases, too, even though I understand that the Foreign Affairs Department had the best thing to do – and of course you can say it wisely – if you had done this scheme differently, finished the old matters, did not hand them over to the Foreign Affairs Department. If the Foreigner's topic is now to practice a system where you take the new issues first, I'm afraid that during this drive-in period, some people who already have a long history of reception, with problems and with the casting ghost hanging over them, will meet a very traumatic spring. The Council of State must try to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1794	One of the backbones of this debate is the current search for racism in this country. Our main concern and that of the Council of State today, not particularly related to this matter, should, in general, be in what way we should attack state racism. Asylum policy is an area in which we balance precisely at this dangerous border where public/state racism can be expressed. It's a minefield that we have to deal with sensibly. We know that many forces are asking whether we should not have had a public review of our asylum policy, both the policy part and the administrative part, in line with the Lund Commission. The previous scheme is therefore strongly criticised. The new system inherits from the old bureaucracy. One can ask questions about the will of the administration, and one can also ask questions about the ability of the administration to search for self. My concern in this regard is that the new system has been designed in such a way as to greatly impede public transparency, and thus will also greatly prevent public criticism. And precisely in such matters, where one balances so delicately, it is vital that not transparency and criticism be deprived of one. It puts us and it puts the Council in an exceptionally responsible position. It reduces to the extent that neither the need nor the pressure to have a public inquiry is made. Now we're going to work on the asylum and refugee policy in connection with a message, and it's, as the Council of State says, relatively quickly to evaluate the new regime in that regard. But we still have to look at whether the policy element, at least, is the way we want it to be in the future, and we also need to assess whether we have a sensible instrument. I want to challenge the Council of States, especially because this system is designed so that it is difficult for anyone to see, to be vigilant and give feedback on how this system works.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1803	First, creating a public misunderstanding. Leif Lund's posts could be perceived as my main goal with this interpellation was to launch an evaluation after seven weeks. It wasn't. My wish was to ensure that the work was done in the name as well as possible. But then I want to say that the various recordings that have been made today are in order to underline the need to facilitate an evaluation, and I asked what plans the Council of State had in that way. So to one of my challenges in my post when it comes to Kosovo Albanians -- just a little clarification there. I have been told that representatives from a municipality have been in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of their two Kosovar Albanian families, where they have been explained that they have been placed under the return programme even if they came to the municipality before war and air bridges, and that because they are located there, they do not have the possibility to come up with their new information and therefore cannot be complained about by the Foreign Affairs Department. I want to come back to the council with a concrete explanation of the matter, but it's on that background that I ask her to follow that group in particular. I asked the government council that they would work to get their cases dealt with individually. She's already confirmed it. This debate shows that there is a broad consensus between both those who voted in favour and those who voted against a new foreign student that this name was meant to represent something new. For the majority, therefore, the denominator was intended to strengthen the confidence of the Board of Appeal and to strengthen legal certainty. The backcloth from our side now is actually a low grant rate when it comes to asylum. The United Nations has shown that. On the United Nations side, there is also some criticism of the current restrictions in Western Europe. Here it's easy to start with a problem compared to the rests. I ask the Council of State in the short term to ensure that legal certainty is not weakened by the fact that the same case handlers set up in the department, unilaterally and independently assess the complaints from the same persons. I would also ask the Council of State, as the individual representatives here have pointed out, to be particularly attentive to the work further.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1814	Let me first comment on some of the representatives of Apelthun Sæle, where the appeal to me was that the humanitarian organisations had to become more involved – I assume that the representative was thinking about being a member of the committee. Then I refer to my main response and would just like to say that the humanitarian organizations in preparation, that is, before we made the final decision, have been closely linked to what this would be. I have understood all the time that they have been happy that we have now put this subject in place. They also accepted the proposal, which was adopted at Stortinget, to go down from five to three representatives, so that they got one, but that they were in each of the names. So I feel like they've been in all the way. When the representative says that the members of the denominator must have an influence on the pile of things, what matters should be dealt with, etc., I just have to point out what I said. According to the decision of the Storting, the foreign student is a judicial body. These members shall take part in the proceedings, participate in the proceedings and take decisions. Something more than that has neither magnificence nor government nor given them any mandate to do, and I don't think they should, precisely because it's a court-like body. So to the question of those who were finally refused – if I understood the representative correctly – on their applications before Christmas, now can get a new assessment in the Study of Foreign Affairs. I don't think they should. If a refusal has been made before the new scheme was established, it is the rejection that applies, of course, unless new information is included in the picture. That's something that's being evaluated in the individual case. But that one in general should have the matter reviewed once more, I do not think it is right. Then to the representative, Solberg. The representative points to a very difficult and important problem. What actually happened was that the Ministry of Justice started off with a huge effort last year, just to get the leftovers down, so that it would be the least possible that went over to the new denominator – it would start with as much blank sheets as possible. That's what we were aiming for. And I think it's been a long time since there's been so many cases in the Justice Department over a year as last year. What happened then was that some time before Christmas many things came over from the UDI. That's how, unfortunately, it's very difficult to predict, because it's difficult for us and also for UDI, before they've dealt with the issues, to know who's allowed to stay in the country and who's being rejected. Then there were, as the representative is familiar with, as many as had been rejected, and unfortunately the balances were transferred. I don't have the fasit answer to this, but I mean, no matter how you turn around and turn around on this pile, it's a big challenge. We have said so far that they must give priority to the new ones, but I am very aware of the problem. I am in dialogue with the management of the Foreign Affairs Department about it on a general basis, and the director and the management are also very concerned about it and are prepared to try to work it down as quickly as possible. But I'm very aware of it, and of course I follow it very closely. It's too fast. – As for the representative of the Björnsen here, I feel that many of the issues concern the whole of asylum and refugee policy, integration, etc. We will have ample opportunity to discuss this further in the context of the big message to be addressed. The evaluation must come – yes. But I don't think we're going to pass a sentence on a note that hasn't yet started properly at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1828	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-21.ana.ud63e1837	There is no record.
