ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e36	The representative, Kristin Krohn Devold, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative Per Sandberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e44	On behalf of the representatives of Per Roar Bredvold and myself, I would like to propose that the Minister of Culture be asked to make a statement to the Stortinget on the situation in Norwegian national broadcasting. I would also ask that the proposal be dealt with in accordance with Section 28(c) of the Stortingen Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e51	The representative, Kristin Halvorsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e54	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Mr Ågot Valle and myself on maximum limits for child care and school leave and the right to kindergarten for all children.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e59	The representative, Siv Jensen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e62	I allow myself to make a proposal for a supplement to the regulations of the Transport Act relating to the organisation of taxi operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e67	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e88	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg State Council Guri Ingebrichtsen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e104	I have a question for Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, who last autumn made it a special feature of the questionnaire to attack the opponent instead of answering questions. This happened a number of times, among other things. in the context of district policy, where he criticised the District Policy of the Advance Party despite its being in favour of the districts. Now there's probably a population uprising going on in Finnmark. I could imagine giving the Prime Minister the opportunity to explain his own district policy and why it benefits District Norway with sky-high taxes and taxes, especially in terms of fuel such as petrol and diesel. What measures does the Government intend to take to improve the situation when, in addition to the government, the ‘used rifles’ policy is reintroduced by reintroducing significant parts of the Norwegian defence that have had jobs in the districts of necessity for defence? I thought the Prime Minister might be able to explain why the government's district policy, in his opinion, is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e113	On several occasions in Finnmark, I have explained the government's district policy in the last two days and why it is good. And I would like to repeat some of the main points of Hagen's representative. These include: Compared to almost all other countries, at least in comparison with the other Nordic countries, Norway spends much more money — and under changing governments — on maintaining outlying settlements than it does in, for example. Sweden and Finland. This is partly through direct transfers — aid for transport, infrastructure development, subsidisation of air tickets — and partly through additional grants to municipalities, grants that the Progress Party wants to remove, and which will be particularly hard hit by Finnmark and North Norway, and partly through lower taxes. The Workers' Party was a driver to introduce zero employers' fees into Finnmark, and the Workers' Party was a driver to ensure a heavy depreciation of student loans in Finnmark, and the Workers' Party was a driver, among others. extra pay supplement for pre-school teachers and teachers in Finnmark and Nord-Troms. The investment tax has been removed, and there are specific tax arrangements that the Workers' Party was in the process of increasing in 1992. This amounts to thousands per cent. person and per person household and have contributed significantly to the dampening of the relocation from Finnmark and Nord-Troms. It is arduous to maintain residence. But we have strong instruments and want a dialogue on further stepping up efforts to maintain residence in the outlying regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e124	When the Prime Minister is obviously so proud and then – let's say – boastful of the workers' party government's district policy in Finnmark, it would be thought that it would have been natural for the Workers' Party to have at least half the votes in Finnmark – which is not the case. At least there should have been more support for the Government than trends in rebellion. Is there something wrong with the Finnmark people who do not understand the Prime Minister's excellent policy? The Prime Minister is talking about infrastructure development. Why wouldn't the Labour Party government be involved in significant additions to the national transport plan when it came to the construction of infrastructure, as we have a very good economy? Why does the Government consistently oppose a dramatic reduction in fuel taxes, which would really help most people and businesses in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e131	I have the impression that there are different opinions in Finnmark on many policy issues, including district policy – as is the case in the rest of the country. In this way, Finnmarkings do not differ significantly from all other residents of Norway, they have different opinions about political parties and about district policies. That is why they vote for different parties, and fortunately, the Labour Party is clearly the largest party. What is obvious is that if you did what the Progress Party proposes, you would have a dramatic reduction in, among other things. the municipality I visited, Vadsø, where removing the North Norway grant would amount to 34 million. kr less in the income of the municipality. We've invested in infrastructure. In Finnmark we have spent a lot of money on, among other things. the development of aerodromes. Norrbotten County is twice the size of Finnmark and has five airports. Finnmark is half as large and has 11 airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e140	There will be follow-up questions – Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e143	I record that the Prime Minister is primarily concerned with highlighting subsidies to maintain residence in the districts. Most of the enterprises located in the districts repeatedly repeat the need for lower taxes, so that they can retain more of the values they create, plough them back into the farms, strengthen the basis for the existence of businesses and thus also the workplaces. A few days ago, a club manager at a fishing company in the districts said that he much rather wanted to freeze his salary growth, given that the fees went down so that what was left in the wallet after taxes and taxes had been paid was more. Will the Government assess this at any time in relation to payroll, when employees at an average wage level express that it is sound as a sensible way of thinking, in order to contribute to the growth of costs and wages, so that we can bring down inflation and thus gradually form the basis for a lower interest rate?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e152	If the representative Jensen heard after I answered the previous question, I then put emphasis on both grants and support schemes for, among other things. infrastructure, development of municipalities and the type of measures and lower taxes. It was a workers' party government that drove through zero employers' fees in Nord-Troms and Finnmark. It's important for the settlement. Only one fee reduction amounts to approximately NOK 1.2 billion. In 1992, we increased the tax relief, both in terms of top taxes and in terms of net income taxes. So there's lower top taxes and lower taxes on net income in Finnmark than in the rest of the country. We have removed the investment tax, and we have introduced zero electricity tax and zero VAT on electricity in Finnmark and Nord-Troms. There are significant tax reliefs – approximately DKK 2.5 billion in total – for Nord-Troms and Finnmark. This means that – in addition to having North Norway grants, regional grants, road support, support for airports and the purchase of air routes – we use fiscal and tax policies to stimulate housing in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e160	Johan J. Jakobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e163	I have a slightly different angle to the question than Carl I. Hagen had. I would like to take from the fact that the population uprising we are now registering in District Norway, among other things, has as its starting point the weakening of public service provision. Let me mention three examples: the so-called Rattsø losses, the small municipalities that get compensation weakened by many millions of dollars next year, the power tax that the Government has now implemented – an example is the municipality of Ulvik, which loses 70 pst. of its revenue from this sector – and not least the Government’s performance project, namely the modernisation of the public sector, which is increasingly seen as a centralisation project. Does the Prime Minister realise that, in the context of the budget, one must now make regional policy considerations more effective in practical policy, including the question of the continuation of the so-called modernisation programme for the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e170	The task of renewing the public sector is to get people out of the offices and get more people to produce services and welfare for the population. There are too many employees in the public sector in charge of administration, reporting and control. We want less of that and more of welfare production — health and education and the other important welfare tasks. That is why we are in the process of health, defence, school and many other sectors. It is an advantage for the whole country, also for District Norway. It may also be worth noting – I stress that those who are now protesting in Finnmark are protesting against all parties – that the population growth in Finnmark, or developments in Vadsø in particular, was good in the first half of the 1990s. In fact, it has been the last few years – when the Central Party has been sitting in the government offices – that there has been the strongest decline in Vadsø Municipality, where I was visiting recently. So I think all the games, including the Center Party, should be a little bit careful trying to flip political coins on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e180	Inge Myrvoll – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e183	We haven't tried yet, but if we get it, it's not safe they will protest against us. Distance congestion and infrastructure have been an important part of this dialogue so far. Finnmark is probably the state that is most dependent on aircraft, both to get to the central strut and also to internal communications within the county. And even though it's public purchase of the cable car network, it's very expensive. When we visited the Transport Committee of a small delegation of three – while we were dealing with the Transport Plan – they told us that the hour they got from us, they cost 23 000 kroner in air tickets. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: is the next time you put out the short-distance network for public purchases on tenders, you are willing to enter a reduction in flight prices as part of that tender? Are you also willing to consider putting out the main route network within North Norway and between North and South, for public purchases? Because that's all that helps. A little checkbook doesn't mean anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e192	The next time you have an agreement with the airlines, we will also consider measures that can help to reduce air fares. We'll get back to that then. What is the situation is that over the last few years, purchases, or purchases, of air services — i.e. subsidies for air services in Finnmark – from 70 to 80 million. kr to approx. 140 million. kr. That means that each ticket is subsidized by NOK 750. It is very possible to look at whether it should be further increased, but the effort has thus recently doubled compared to reducing the cost of the flight offer in Finnmark. In addition, much money is spent on operating airports. It's in addition to what goes directly on the purchase of air services. I would like to remind you that in Finnmark, which is half the size of Norrbotten County, there are eleven airports – all with state subsidies and subsidies. In Norrbotten County, which is twice the size, there are five airports, one of which has grants. It says something about a lot of investment in infrastructure also in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e201	Steinar Bastesen - for the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e204	It is probably too much to demand that the Prime Minister be able to present the Labour Party's district policy in an oral Question Time. But I have, like everyone else, recorded the coastal uprising, which started with me entering the Stortinget. I've basically spoken for deaf ears. Yesterday, the Stortinge managed to vote on a proposal of 10 billion kroner to make the districts equal to the Oslo region. The problems in Finnmark and on the coast are probably greater than they can be solved here in an oral Question Time, but: What does the Prime Minister intend to do to ensure that the fisheries in Finnmark will be delivered to Finnmark? Fisheries are the most important Finnish land in order to drive nutrient development and to save the settlement. What does the Prime Minister intend to do to ensure that the quotas allocated are landed here? And does the Prime Minister understand that people in Finnmark are equally in need of investment and a level playing field with the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e211	I am concerned about ensuring more further processing of fish in Finnmark and in Coast Norway in general – I presented some suggestions on that when I was in Finnmark yesterday and yesterday. I am engaged in developing aquaculture and farming as an important industry also in our northern parts of the country. There are many concrete proposals. We are in the process of doing this, including: in the case of contributions to the development of a new industry, namely cod farming, in addition to salmon farming. But I want to warn you a little bit about demanding a level playing field, because there are just different assumptions that make it necessary to have different framework conditions to smooth out living conditions. It's e.g. Obviously, we had 14 pst. employers' tax in Finnmark, which is held in Oslo, would be very unfair to Finnmark. Therefore, we must have lower taxes in Finnmark than in Oslo. There are different types of conditions that contribute to more equal living conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e218	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e221	I also have a question for the Prime Minister. Although he has now not surprisingly been part of the North Norway and Finnmarks policy, there is reason to pursue the issue of district policy more generally, also because I have a different approach than Carl I. Hagen had. It is not so strange that we get a district uprising just under labor party rule. Of course, it is linked to the policy of the Workers' Party, now also the Stoltenberg government, leader. It is also linked to the way a person meets representatives from the districts. When the Stoltenberg government took over, it immediately started the process of building up some district policy measures. Several subsidy items in the revised national budget last year were cut: agricultural settlements, which had previously come into the port in agreement with agricultural organisations, were breached for the first time in several years, national transport plans had a too poor rural profile, etc. So my question is: does this downgrading of district measures harmonize with what the Prime Minister now says about the desire for a bet in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e233	I disagree that there is a reduction in district measures. There is a change to become more targeted and more accurate in relation to what we think is the main objective, namely to maintain the settlement. And I think the representative Bondevik should be very careful to say that the people's uprising in Finnmark is against the Workers' Party and for the central government policy. The problems, not least in Vadsø, which is the starting point for protests, led to speed from the mid-1990s until today. It is a period in which Bondevik has had a significant responsibility for the policy of Finnmark and district policy in general. The Labour Party has been a driver of the specific arrangements we have in our rural policy. We're still going to be, and we're going to make new proposals, but we're concerned that they're going to be as accurate as possible. In the case of the agricultural settlement, we believe that it was fully sound, after we had agreed to a relief of 800 million. through the taxation system towards agriculture, to contribute to some tightening of the agricultural settlement itself. We don't think that's going to affect the districts. We believe that this is a sound agricultural policy that contributes to lower prices, which are beneficial to consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e242	I have to draw the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that my question did not go to Finnmark in particular, to which the Prime Minister now continues to respond, but it was in the area of district policy in general, because it is a concern, not only in Finnmark, but beyond the districts in general. I did not say that this was an action against the Workers' Party and for the Centre, but that it is not by chance that this comes under a Labour Party regime. It's not easy to reverse the movement rate. The central government put in place a series of measures that made it actually subdued, even if it wasn't turned around, if we see the districts as a whole and not just Vadsø in particular. I think this also has something to do with how the Workers' Party meets the districts. According to the Finnmark newspaper when he was in Vadsø, the Prime Minister said that in the inner Oslo East there are many who think we spend too much money in District Norway. Does not the Prime Minister see that this may seem an excuse, that it may seem that groups are set up against each other, and that a need for action both places, but in quite different ways? And finally, during the budget negotiations last year, we agreed on an evaluation of the Nord-Troms and Finnmark Action Zone. Where does that stand?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e253	We're going to evaluate the action zone. What I did in Finnmark when someone there said – and there were different opinions, they thought different things – that the state does nothing to contribute to the settlement in Finnmark, was to say clearly that it is wrong, and that it is unwise of those who want to take care of Finnmark's interests, to create the impression that there is nothing to do when there are significant tax cuts, zero employer charges and significant transfers from the state to Finnmark and Nord-Troms. I also want to remind you that it is precisely that there are different living conditions on which we have to base. The problem in Finnmark and in some other parts of District Norway are high air fares. The problem in e.g. Oslo is high housing prices. Then we have to take into account that there are just differences that make us have to have a little bit of different tools in different parts of the country to maintain the settlement. Now we're going to evaluate the action zone. The last time we did so, the evaluation report gave a good response, namely that the personalised measures have helped to maintain the settlement. I expect that we will get some of the same answers from the new evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e262	It will be a follow-up question – Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e265	After eight years of continuous growth in the Norwegian economy, there are strong forces that seem to be centralising, and those forces are probably so strong that even if we put all the good heads in the water to find good instruments in district policy to counteract this, it seems to be difficult. That recognition, I think, we're going to divide between several governments. At this stage, it is absolutely essential that the instruments we know and that work are used with the power in them. I still want to use this opportunity to tell the Prime Minister how we can get started thinking new and smart in district policy. We know that decisions in this room lead to a new Norwegian east village, Fornebu, and new expansion around the Gardermo, and all of this must be fought about the same scarce resource: the people of this country. How can we think new and smart where young people have other prescriptions for how and where they want to live their good lives? I think a lot of the answer lies in the new information technology. The previous government presented the ‘IT competence in a regional perspective’. We know there's a lot going on out there, but the growth force is so strong in the central strata. Unfortunately, it drowns a little in the Fornebu debate. Can we continue to have a dialogue with the Government in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e274	Now I'd like to commend the representative Sponheim. I think what he said now was very wise, both that we have to admit that it is a demanding task to maintain the settlement in our long-term country – that does not mean that we should not try, but we should acknowledge that it is a demanding task even if we use a lot of resources to get it into – and that we should try to think ‘new and smart’, as Sponheim calls it. I showed in Finnmark, among others. that I have been involved in quite arduous conversions in the Church, where we cut down A/S S.S. – 700 men lost their jobs. Now there's progress and growth in the Church community, because you've been thinking new and smart there. I referred to Mo in Rana, where we had 1,200 jobs. Now there are more jobs in the ironworks than when we had the Ironworks. I referred to Rena Karton – 200 jobs were lost. Now it's going well in Åmot and at Rena. So it is in Horten, and so it is in Kongsberg. So there are many good examples in Norway that we have managed to reverse the decline in progress by thinking new and smart, as Sponheim does, and then IT is one key. One of the changes we have had in the public sector in recent years is innovation in the telecommunications sector. Prices are now a tenth of what they were ten years ago. It's important for Utrand-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e281	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e284	My question goes to the Prime Minister. State Council Giske has rejected the application from the Christian Children's School Oasen in Songdalen with back coverage from the Prime Minister. It affects two very important principles. One is the right of parents to ensure that the children go to the school they want, and the other is the concept of tolerance. I accept that the Prime Minister does not agree with the basis upon which the Oasen is based, but is it not that tolerance is just about accepting positions other than those that you stand for? And why has the Prime Minister not followed up on this in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e291	I agree that tolerance is also about accepting positions other than those you have. At the same time, the private school law fully permits that when there is a teaching system that is thought to be contrary to important principles in relation to Norwegian education policy, for example: to fundamentals in terms of equality, the relationship between women and men, whether the woman should be inferior to men, etc., there is a full basis for rejecting an application. It is an assessment that the Minister of Church and Education has made and that has my support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e296	This decision has caused great concern and has been criticised by many circles, among others. by the Secretary-General of the Human-Ethical Federation, who just said: ‘Tolerance is just about being able to live with your own opinions and attitudes.’ It's an important thing. At the same time, six Christian leaders, and it covers everything from seventh-day Adventists and the Missionary Relationship to the Oslo Catholic Diocese, have written a strongly critically open letter on this very issue. In fact, they are now raising questions as to whether it is such that the Christian schools under the private school law can really be allowed to be Christian schools with the reasons that the Council of State has given. My question is, how does the Prime Minister intend to ensure that Christian schools are allowed to be Christian schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e310	We have a lot of experience in Norway because we have essentially a public school, a common school for everyone. Then we have a long experience that we have had a supplement to the Norwegian schoolwork through private schools, where different directions, different schools, have received public support, such as Steiner Schools, various Christian schools and other schools. That law and regulation has been administered by the Workers' Party for many decades. We have given public support to private schools, and we will continue to do so – and we will continue to approve them. At the same time, however, the private school law requires an assessment of whether the educational offer is such that it is considered fundamentally contrary to some important principles of Norwegian education policy. We think that's the case here, and that's why we've said no to that school. Of course, that does not mean that we should say no to schools to which the Workers' Party has previously agreed, whether Christian or other schools that have been supported and that are private.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e318	There will be follow-up questions – Kjell Magne Bondevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e321	For many years we know of the Workers' Party's reluctance to private schools. They have gone to the point of getting real financial support, which would have made it possible not only for children with rich parents to go there. Now they have accepted to rule on the basis of the law, but do their best to prevent private schools. As regards the specific school on which Jan Petersen raised questions, the school has actually made it clear that it will comply with the Norwegian law, also the Norwegian law on equality, and possibly remove what might be contrary to it, from the teaching material. It is not the rejection itself, but the reasons of the Minister of Church and Education that are most perceptive. He says he assumes that the school curriculum is contrary to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. What's he building it on? He says that the school places too much emphasis on individual work, which we try to stimulate in public school. Similarly, in the case of multidisciplinary work, against which there is a scepticism, according to the Ministry's justification, in the case of religion. The reasons are alarming. Does the Prime Minister see that this is so bad and unworked that it should be re-examined?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e330	First, a little bit to the storywriting of the representative Bondevik. He gives the impression that the Workers' Party is almost forced to accept that we are going to have private schools in this country as a complement to the important common public school offer, and that they are getting state aid, and that the Workers' Party is also forced to do so. It's obviously wrong. We've had schools, for example. Stoner school, all the way back to the 1950s. Then the Workers' Party had a purely majority on the Stortinget, and there is no doubt that the state aid to, and the permit, the approval of a private school that Steinerskole back in the 1950s did not happen because the Christian People's Party pushed the Workers' Party to it, for at that time we had a majority alone on the Stortinget. So I think trying to represent it as that the Workers' Party is for a monolithic school system without diversity, without supplement, is wrong. But we're too strong a public school for everyone. We have opened up a private supplement, but we disagree and fear that the private supplement can create a two-part school system or a school system that conflicts with important principles. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e339	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e342	Now it is the case that the Labour Party has not been involved in all the changes in the private school law, they voted among other things. towards the last change. As a representative of a party that in its time here in the Chamber had the case rapporteur for the private school law, it is what arouses my concern as liberals that during the handling of the Oasen case, the Council of State has managed to use three different arguments. First came an argument about the threat to the primary school. So Stortinget has found a solution to how to make sure of it. Then came the argument on equality. So the school says to follow the gender equality law. Then comes a third set of new arguments, as the representative Mr. Bondevik pointed out. What's going to be wonderful, and which is at least disturbing to me, is that instead of saying that what will the school now answer the challenges of us, these are our terms, you take third-degree arguments and run through. Then, in my opinion, a kind of legal clause is created that you cannot have, even within the administrative framework of the Government, if you are to be perceived to be fair. That is why, of course, we have received this unusual alliance between the Human-Ethical Federation, the Seventh-Day Adventists and the Catholic Church, and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e351	Either we have a law that says that anyone who applies to form a private school can be allowed to receive state aid, regardless of – I don't think anyone in this room is a member of – or we have a law that says that upon application based on assessment according to more detailed criteria where a judgement is exercised, an administrative relationship, one should possibly be able to receive support. That judgement must be exercised in the ministry. There are many singles, many curricula, many singles to consider. The Labour Party government has, over the years, exercised that discretion, said yes to a large number of private schools. Here is our assessment that this is contrary to important principles, and therefore the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e358	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e361	I am aware that the Workers' Party and the Workers' Party Government are not as big a fan of freedom of choice as others and are therefore more sceptical about private schools, even if you accept a certain supplement. But this case also has another fundamental issue, namely the purely discretionary one to be exercised by a government, and in particular by a minority government. That will often also be a political judgement. What, then, is the principle attitude of the minority government of Stoltenberg on a matter where the law initially added to the department to assess a matter? Will the Government take into account that there may be a majority in the Storting that will put some other leadership in the exercise of such judgement? And will the Government then be responsive to the majority of the Storting, or is it the Government's attitude to go to war with the great majority? Here it is quite obvious that the majority of the relevant committee has expressed that one should rely on what was available when we had a government change. The Government has refused that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e368	It is obvious that a government should not go to war with the great majority. This applies in any case, but it is especially true when we have minority governments, which we have had in Norway for very many years. At the same time, under the law adopted by the Stortinget, the Government is obliged to exercise a judgement. That judgement is exercised in this case, and we have come to believe that based on the guidelines and criteria set for the law and the processing, it is right to reject the application that has come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e373	Rolf Rekvam – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e376	There is reason to commend the Government for the work done with this school. It seems like it's done a thorough and real job. But what gives cause for concern is that we have quite a number of schools that operate with the same educational material, which is in the same tradition, and that belongs to the same organization. We also know that the organisation that runs these schools has ambitions to establish quite a number of schools over a number of years – we have seen their plan. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will the Prime Minister go in and look at it? We know that the schools within this religious movement are essentially using the same teaching material, which is translated from American and South African. And my question to the Prime Minister is: Will the Prime Minister go in and assess the other schools that have received state subsidies and use this material, so that they may be treated like the Oasen?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e386	First, I would like to say that I am pleased to support the Government's decision. Secondly, I would like to say that this debate illustrates – and there is no criticism from the questioner – how important it is that we do not now start a process in which we end up dealing with individual applications in the Storting, because it requires a completely different decision-making basis in each case – with regard to each application, each curriculum, textbooks and teaching structure – so that you can then decide on it. And it's going to be a big business that I don't think anyone will be served – not those who are busy securing the private schools, as the Workers' Party has been up for very many years. The schools that have accepted their applications have received them. It may well be that the Labour Party administration has exercised a different judgement in some specific matters that the previous government considered differently – I do not have the prerequisite for making a decision. The reassessment of the cases depends on the conditions of the authorisations granted. It is not possible to exempt anyone from a permit if the conditions contained in it are met, and that means that one should be very careful, I think, in creating uncertainty about the approvals that have already been granted. For the future, we get to exercise our own discretion and deal with the things that might come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e393	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e396	It is the first time in peacetime that in such a short time, a Norwegian government has been able to establish an alliance of all life - vision societies throughout Norway, which addresses the Storting and expresses its concern about the freedom of life. I note that it does not concern the Prime Minister – it should. My question goes to the concrete kgl. Resolution of 9 February d.o.b. It introduces a new and third justification for the same position adopted by the Council of State, Gishe, all the way. However, the justification used to reject the complaint has previously been used by the same department — in exactly the same form — as conditions of approval. It is, as far as I can see, quite cash in contravention of the fundamental principle of law equality for the law – similar matters should be treated equally. Doesn't that worry the Prime Minister either?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e406	If someone thinks that this is a decision that is contrary to the law, it is an entirely ordinary matter – then it has to be a case for the judiciary. Here, I think the whole debate illustrates the importance of being a little neat about which authority lies there. If you think that a decision has been taken in breach of the private school law, it is the courts who interpret the law, or who decide whether a crime has been committed. If it is the case that Stortinget believes that the law is wrong, the Stortinget can, of course, change the law – without my recommending it. If it is the case that the Storting wants to deprive the Government of the exercise of the discretion accorded to the Government by law, I would strongly advise against it, because then we end up in a situation where the Storing is going to deal with individual applications and exercise a demanding judgment in individual cases. I would generally advise against this, but also of course within the private school law.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e413	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e416	Prime Minister Stoltenberg used to live in the housing law that I now live in, and I can tell you that the last apartment that was for sale – 100 m2 of the OBOS standard – was sold for 2.3 million. kr. It just says something about what kind of pressure there is in the Oslo area. In many district municipalities, people won't even be able to get what it costs to build a house if they were to try to sell a solid single dwelling. Doesn't it say how bad we are in the socio-economic sense, when we conduct a policy that increases the pressure in those areas of the country where there is a great deal of pressure from before, while there is already a dislocation where there is a good place to go? And that's probably the core of this district debate, that SND Invest spends more money in the Oslo area than they do, for example. in Finnmark, that Telenor is moving jobs from Vadsø, so that IT workplaces are reduced by 70 to 20, that this pressure will lead to a significant increase in pressure on several investments in South Norway. Is it wise to sit down like that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e423	First I'd like to say that we had fun in Valdresgate Borettslag, Kristin Halvorsen and I. Secondly, I would say that it is shared joy I hear what the housing prices are now, compared to what they were when I moved out of there. Thirdly, I would say that if what the government did was to increase the pressure on Valdresgata Borechtslag and other dwellings in the Oslo area and there was a deliberate deportation from District Norway, then of course it would not have been wise politics. But that's not what the government does. The government spends a significant number of billions of dollars on maintaining residence in Norway, significantly more than what is done in Sweden and Finland, and it has helped to dampen a trend of centralisation that we have seen in very many countries. We would like to have a dialogue with all the good forces – SV is included among them – about how we can do even more. This is a country’s financial contribution in the form of lower taxes, increased subsidies for road development and that type of action, but it is not least that these societies need to develop their own businesses and businesses to a greater extent. I mentioned examples, Churchnes, Mo in Rana and Åmot Municipality, where conversions have been successful. That's where we've been able to stop a dramatic demise. That's important, and then we're going to learn from the good experience, for example. to contribute to lower housing prices in Valdresgata Borettslag.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e430	I find that the Prime Minister realizes that he was selling too early. – Otherwise, it doesn't mean much to or from those who are already in the housing market. It's those who are the first-time founders who really get this message. But I think that some of the core of the problem here is district policy in all the policies and not whether we are able to climb any district policy that penalises a policy that is essentially a centralisation policy. If it is the case that SND pursues a centralized policy, that the State of Labour does the same, that the Equations Offices do the same, and so does the police, etc., then there is a structural policy that leads to increased centralisation, and then we can do the same without helping. Had it not been a good idea to think the other way around, for example. IT workplaces, there are jobs where distance is less important than in other areas, and this will require incentives to establish it in districts. Should it not have been said that SND should not invest primarily in the Oslo area, but in the districts? It could reverse the evolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e437	Here we have to clean up a little bit of what SND is doing and not doing. SND Invest is not a regional policy instrument at all. The size has decided that there should be very common commercial investments to contribute to the equity of Norwegian enterprises across the country without any regional policy profile. It's zero subsidies, it's business investment. It may be for or against, but it is not about district policy, it is not about subsidies, interest subsidies or subsidies. Subsidised SND schemes, which are cheap loans, risk loans or grants, have a very clear distribution profile and district profile. Every sixth company in Finnmark has received some form of support from SND. There are hardly any companies in Oslo that have received support from SND in terms of cheap loans, risk loans or direct grants. So that's one example of a clear district policy that we're going through SND, and mixing SND into SND Invest is going to be very wrong. Broadband, IT, is very important for District Norway. There's a lot of possibilities. In Wågå they have moved out jobs, among others. using information technology. But then it has to be cheap, and by converting Telenor the cost is now a tenth of what they were ten years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e446	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e449	I actually think I'm going to have to follow up on the same street saying that the debate we've now had on the challenges in District Norway becomes quite surreal when Carl I. Hagen, who a few years ago made it a campaign to call the Finnish mark-ups 'latsabber', is the first to go on the track and make up their leading defender. I'm not quite sure if the Prime Minister has taken up the challenges, the problems and the feelings you're now struggling with around the world. We're not talking about Mo in Rana, where we've had a successful transition with significant government funds, but about edges. I think it's the uprising that the Prime Minister met in Finnmark, unfortunately, may spread to much larger parts of District Norway. We must not make this a world championship in spending the most money, and argue about who is proposing the most billions to these areas. It is that those living in these areas feel that the basis of nutrition and the very basis of life are disappearing. The authorities remove public infrastructure that has been seen as a matter of course and which makes you feel dependent. It's along these lines that we have to conduct the debate. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is the Prime Minister genuinely willing to leave a line of argument on the extent of state transfers, and to enter into a constructive debate on how to resolve these issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e461	I would like to go into a constructive debate, I, because this is difficult. It's not clear how we're going to help maintain the settlement, even though we're willing to bet significant sums on it, so that debate I welcome, and I also participated in that debate in Finnmark. But the concept of «building down» State infrastructure means I am wrong. For example, what happened in the post office has led to more postal sites now than in many years. There are several places where you can go to post office and pick up and deliver mail and pay bills, as before, but it is a conversion. With regard to the telecommunications structure, it is true that there are fewer employees, but there is a significantly better provision of telecommunications services. Finnmark was the county that was first digitized. We are now working on a huge expansion of broadband, and the cost of a ten-minute phone call from Hammerfest to Oslo, which cost about ten years ago. Twenty-three, now it's $2.94. It is very important for Finnmark and for the whole of Norway that the cost of using the new information technology, the Internet and other types of new information technology has fallen dramatically. But it's an extension of public infrastructure, not a reduction, and it's done not least for District Norway. It is true that the post office has been closed, but a significant number of post offices were also closed then – yes, I should not be Polish, but just say that there are many who are responsible for what has happened within the Post Office. But all in all, there are more postal points now than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e472	The President will stress that she will not urge the Prime Minister to polemise against other representatives. Carl I. Hagen has filed a complaint that it was polemized against him by the representative of Enoxsen. He would like to enrich a statement by Enoxen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e477	I'm sorry, but there are some people who have made a reputation and a myth and added that someday I should have called Finnmarks for 'latsabber'. I've never done that. I have denied it countless times, and I beg Odd Roger Enoxen to regret that he was injured to make such a claim from the Stockholm pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e482	If Carl I. Hagen has withdrawn that statement, it's fine. There's never been any reason to call the Finnmarks "latsabber," and it's good that neither Carl I. Hagen now sees any reason to do that. But let me go over to my supplementary question. The Prime Minister again demonstrates that we are talking about a little different things when he again discusses what the government is spending on public infrastructure funds. To describe some of the situation: what happens now is that we have a huge concentration of ownership in the breeding industry, where local ownership disappears. You sit in large parts of District Norway again with pure smoking jobs within, for example. breeding that causes competences and jobs to disappear from local communities. We see the same thing in relation to the fish resources, where Kjell Inge Smoke now owns over 10 pst. of the total Norwegian fishing resources. They gather on fewer and fewer hands, and it depletes District Norway. We see it in relation to access to capital, that the big banks are now actually more or less saying no to financing the construction of residential buildings, simply by postal code. It's these trends that contribute to the confusion of these societies. What does the Prime Minister want to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e491	I believe that it is not quite obvious that e.g. the ownership structure of the banks has a direct impact on the performance of the districts. I think what is crucial for District Norway is that you have good banking, cheap banking and banking services across the country. I think the exact same thing with respect to e.g. important parts of the fishing industry. The important thing is that capital comes in, that someone wants to invest and develop the businesses. Whether it has been Frionor, Nestlé, Kjell Inge Røkke or others, lending capital – what can be called central Norwegian capital from the Oslo area – has been important for the development of District Norway. And I don't think you can just say that it's negative for District Norway that that kind of capital exists. It is crucial to look at the possibilities. There are many coastal communities now progressing, including: through the farming industry. I think, like many in Finnmark, that farming, in addition to traditional fisheries, is a great opportunity that Finnmark has not yet exploited well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e500	In order to accommodate two further key questions, the President will not now allow follow-up questions. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e505	My question is also addressed to the Prime Minister and concerns the conflict between Israel and Palestine. In large parts of the Norwegian press and the media, the relationship between Israel and Palestine is produced unilaterally negatively for the benefit of Palestine, while almost Israel is produced as the culprit for the most part. Norwegian government councils are very often acting in such a way that media images are produced that Norwegian government members also visit the area and otherwise have a clear view that Palestine is the one who needs the most support in this conflict. In other words, there is a total picture of Israel as the culprit for most things going wrong in this conflict. Does the Prime Minister think this picture is correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e514	In winter and before Christmas, the Government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I were criticized for not being critical enough of Israel and Israel's handling of riots in the occupied areas of the West Bank. Now Røsslande criticises us for not being critical enough for the Palestinians and has ample understanding for the Israelis. I believe that debate, and the fact that the criticism comes from both sides, illustrates two things: firstly, that there is a complex and difficult conflict, where it is not easy to say that one party has all the responsibility and the other has no responsibility, and secondly, that the Government has tried to lead a line that takes on board the fact that there are just two parties, that we all have a responsibility to contribute to peace, and that Norway wants to play a role in bringing the parties together, to contribute to dialogue, and thus not always have the same high profile in the public as one might wish, because we believe it is more important to play a role in the conflict and in relation to the parties. In terms of media coverage, it would be very wrong for me to give characteristics in relation to whether I believe it is objective or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e523	In Israel, a change of government has just taken place, and in this connection, the new government has also received an entry from members of the Israeli Labour Party. My question is: Will participation of the Israeli Labour Party in a new government have an impact on the policy of the Stoltenberg government towards Israel?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e530	The crucial thing for us is what kind of policy is being pursued. Now we are in the situation that there is not yet a government formed. It looks like there's going to be a government where the working party is also going to participate, and there, among other things. has been speculating that Shimon Peres can become Minister of Foreign Affairs. It is clear that a broad assembly with Sharon as Prime Minister and Shimon Peres, the Peace Prize winner, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be a government with great expectations, but I would also say a government with some uncertainty as to what will become the actual policy. I think we're going to evaluate an Israeli government based on what they're actually doing. Of course, the Labour Party and the Government will also do so, regardless of which parties are in the government at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e537	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e541	I'll be the original enough to ask a question to the Social Minister. We have recently received frightening information on Norwegian youth alcohol habits. Norway is now in close contact with young people in Europe. During the last year, every five 18-year-old with a driving licence has completed at least twice. American studies show that restrictions on the donation and sale of alcohol can halve violence. And Norwegian research shows that an increase in total consumption of 1 litre of pure alcohol per year will give 25 pst. several killings among men. So increasing alcohol consumption is not only a health problem or a social problem, but also a traffic problem and a problem of violence. Research shows that restrictive measures are the most effective alcohol policy. Price and availability are among the main factors. I know that the Social Minister is concerned about increasing alcohol consumption and filling among Norwegian youth. But is she willing to promote measures that may be unpopular but that work in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e550	There is every reason to worry about the increasing consumption of alcohol by young people. The report now presented by the World Health Organization shows that, fortunately, we are still keeping down on the incidence of alcohol use among young people. Nevertheless, there is an increase there too. It seems, therefore, that the typical Norwegian drinking pattern with flat-fills has a greater grip on youth, unfortunately. So we haven't changed the drinking culture in Norway; it seems like the young take the old way of drinking. The representative Naess also points out that restrictive measures appear to help, and there is no disagreement among professionals. Norway’s alcohol policy is also one of the most restrictive in the world. I think we're going to be happy for that, and we're working on that. We also need an alcohol policy that has resonated in the population, and we need to balance these relationships. What also emerged at the United Nations Conference where these figures were presented was that the advertising, as it is now conducted from the industry, is aggressive and goes a lot on lifestyle. The Norwegian ban on alcohol advertising is no longer observed in this way, as advertising is transmitted through television channels from abroad, which we do not control. I also want to cooperate with the Swedish Social Minister, as well as with the Government, on how we can move forward in the international field to see if we can do something about advertising as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e559	I noticed that the Council of State refers to the WHO Ministerial Conference in Stockholm, and I interpret her so that she will follow up the fight against the alcohol industry that Gro Harlem Brundtland signaled. I think that's positive. Then you also have to have a voice in the population, yes, that's right, but there are also proposals for measures that can be implemented. Among other things, the National Council of the Afstands has provided five concrete advice: strengthening the control measures for the sale of beer in shops, higher taxes on beer, continued bans on rusbrus in Norwegian grocery stores, stronger responses to drug-trafficking outpatients, and strengthening prevention and information work aimed at young people. Will the Minister of Social Affairs be able to follow up these advices from the National Council of the Affluent Peoples, which has some competence in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e568	This is good advice, and I'm taking them with me, every one. In fact, I am deeply concerned about the turnover in relation to young people. Drinking alcohol is not allowed until you are 18 years old in this country, and then we have to make sure that we get something done about this. I will come back to that in the drug action plan. In the case of raspberry in the shops, it is well known to the representative Naess that there we have protested against ESA's injunction to take it out to the shops, so that's where we conduct an active policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e575	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e578	My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. In today's edition of the Daily Newspaper, a number of comments have been made. the Secretary-General of the Church's Bymition on the misery that drug addicts live under in the centre of Oslo. She, along with a professional, is reasoning about whether we should not now be open to experimenting with injection rooms, not because we are going to give up the fight to save people against drugs, not because we are going to give up the fight against criminals, but because we may have a duty to make sure that misery gets less. The Council of State will consider a legal basis for testing trials under conditions of safety, including: In the context of ensuring that a sample of places of stay and meeting are available, where the injection room is not the only one, but is part of a larger whole?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e587	The use of opiates in Norway has been going on for many years, and we have had a group of very tired addicts in Oslo, but also in large parts of the rest of the country. It also causes us to see high rates of deaths in this group due to overdoses, but also other deaths. This worries me a lot. In terms of injection rooms, I've looked at that problem. Norway has acceded to the international conventions of the INCB. Denmark requested an interpretation of this from INCB, and was rejected, and it was clearly stated that injection rooms are not permitted within these conventions. Then we see that there are some countries that still set up injection rooms, and they have then chosen to interpret the conventions themselves. I am also concerned that Norway should have a significant international credibility in the area of drug policy, because drug policy has such a strong international dimension. However, with the reality we face, we must nevertheless look at all the possibilities that lie in preventing further health damage and death among drug addicts. The field care in Oslo is a good example of something that has worked, and we need to look at what other measures we can add there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e596	I have the deepest respect for conventions. My starting ideology is basically that more people die in Norway because of lack of faith that it is useful to help than from heroin. We are in a situation that is also about very worn-out people, literally worn-out, who live in misery. In the heart of the big city we're in, there must also be room for that support. When, among others: The Church’s Bymition today raises the debate on the drug injection room, is not to renounce the rigour and rigour of Norwegian drug policy, but it is to ask questions about not going a bit on the road to alleviate the everyday life of people who are in such a difficult situation that their lives are just terrible. That was the background to my question. We are about to have overdose deaths in a number of Norway that pass the number of road deaths. We know how strongly we react to traffic fatalities, but the overdose deaths we must now start looking at. They can't be as high as they do, they can't keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e605	I fully agree with Mr Dørum that this is a big and difficult question. A few weeks ago, I was on the Plate and talked to some of the people who often live there. I was well received, and I received some advice from them on how to proceed with drug policy. What they particularly took up with me was the treatment side, not so much injection rooms. But what I'm saying is that I want to evaluate any measure that can help us reduce the number of deaths. We need to be aware that in Oslo there is no increase in overdose deaths on the streets. They now happen in private homes or in shelters, and then we have to look very carefully at measures that relate to just these places, how we can reach people there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e610	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e616	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 6, from the representative Hilde Frafjord Johnson to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, the questioner has a history of disease. Question 7, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who will direct him. At the request of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, the question is moved and answered in response to question 2. Question 10, from Mr Ågot Valle's representative to the Minister for Culture, the questioner has a history of disease. Question 16, from the representative, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, to the Minister for the Environment, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 20, from the representative of Magnhild Melting Company Kleppa to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 22, from the representative of Ursula Evje to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be raised by the representative of André Kukkestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e638	I would like to ask the Prime Minister the following questions: ‘A review by the KS on the situation in Kommune-Norway shows that many municipalities have cut the school sector in recent years. Does the Prime Minister feel that it is a responsible policy in one of the richest countries in the world to tighten up in primary school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e647	The government is working for a public non-university school providing an equivalent training offer with a diversity that caters for everyone’s needs. The individual student shall be at the centre, emphasis shall be placed on the modern dissemination of knowledge. To meet the challenges of the knowledge society, there will be a need to strengthen and further develop the quality of school. That's the government's clear goal, and we'll be able to come back to that thoroughly in months to come. In terms of money use, or resource use, in primary schools, Gunnskola's information system shows that the number of divided hours per person. class has increased slightly, while the number of special classes per. students dropped from the school year 1999-2000 to the school year 2000-2001. This overall indicates that the use of money, or the use of resources, is stable during the period. There are no figures for the current year for natural reasons. I am familiar with the results of the survey carried out by the Municipalitys' Central Association, where 185 municipalities and 16 county municipalities have blackened. According to this survey, primary schools point out that the sector most municipalities want to prioritise in 2002 given that there is room for increased activity. For the current year, 22 municipalities of the 185 municipalities that have responded add up to expand the primary school offer, and 96 municipalities will maintain the offer. This represents a total of 64 pst. of the municipalities that have replied. Furthermore, 57 municipalities, or 31 pst., correspond to the provisional priorities for 2001 being added to primary school cuts. It is worrying that some municipalities are planning cuttings in primary schools. At present, there is a broad consensus in this room that municipalities should be more responsible for making their own priorities in important areas. Now we also have to remember that the survey it refers to is based on preliminary priorities and not on final accounting figures. Therefore, one should be careful to draw final conclusions on the basis of this study. The Ministry of Churches, Education and Research will follow closely the situation in the municipalities. In the context of the state reports from the State Education Offices in the spring of 2001, the Ministry will request a separate assessment of municipalities with relatively low resource use, as it must be clear that all students in our country are to be guaranteed an offer in accordance with the provisions of both law and curriculum.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e667	I thank you for your answer. Now these results don't come as a big surprise to me. We've gone through the Storting in the past how the earmarked funds work towards the municipalities, and found out that the earmarked funds that require a propensity, they obviously take money from other sectors. And that's what's happened in a lot of municipalities, that the municipalities have taken money from other areas to get enough for the proportion of care for the elderly, and so it's the school that's suffering. But if we peel this to the bone, it's all about the seventh and last thing about the municipality economy, what conditions you have to run all sorts of good measures around the municipalities, and to ensure a standard of school and care that is comparable to the standard that the large majority have in private. Will the Prime Minister submit a policy that will significantly increase transfers to municipalities in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e676	I fully agree that this is basically about how much money we are going to spend together on common welfare schemes, of which our public school is an important part. We're going to add up to increased income to the municipalities in the years that come. In the budget adopted for the current year, which was the first time my government proposed last autumn, we have a historically strong increase in municipal income, stronger than maybe in 10 years – 5-6 billion kroner net. In addition, increased teacher pay was compensated for the municipalities, so that there was a total of 8 billion kroner, which is a historically high level, and which has enabled many municipalities to invest in the school. It also shows, with all possible reservations, that a majority of the municipalities that have responded to the KS study will either maintain or increase the funding for the school. So there's a minority that says they're going to use less, and then the situation is that it's a little early to say first if they're going to spend less on school, and secondly what's the reason they're going to use less. There may be changes in the number of students, in school structure and other things that actually make it not wrong that it is used slightly less.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e683	I think the level of ambition must be much higher than this. If we can't keep a standard in the public sector and especially the school in the future that can match the very many children and parents have private, we're not going to be able to hold a broad public school, and privatisation is going to force itself. And the situation around the municipalities is that they haven't gotten much growth compared to last year. On the contrary, they drain the water, and the debt situation is worrying. They're probably not going to have to take dramatic cutting rounds, but they're not going to be able to take the grips for the public sector and the school that we expect, we're parents and grandparents, and all the other voters are expecting. That is why I would strongly urge the Prime Minister to raise many concerns, because this is going to be crucial for the future existence of a significant social democratic foundation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e688	I totally agree. I believe that one of the most important things we can do is make sure that public school, primary school, high school and higher education are good and getting better. It's already good, but it's not good enough, and it can get significantly better. However, Norway is now the country in the entire Western world that spends the most money per person. School pupils, we are the country in Europe that has the most teachers per year. students, we have introduced school start-ups for 6-year-olds, extended hours, introduced high school for all, increased teacher pay by NOK 30000 on average over one year and established school leisure arrangements. There are gaps and problems, but over the last few years, there have been significant uplifts in the school sector, and we're going to make new uplifts. What we also say is that when Norway is the country with most teachers per year. Students in the industrialised world and we still have a shortage of teachers, it might say that, in addition to giving more money, we need to look at how the school day is organized and how we use the resources at school. It's renewing the school – and that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e698	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: ‘According to the printing of audio recordings from the Minister of Defence Press Conference on 16 February, the Council of State Godal said that he had had ‘extensive contacts’ with the defence policy spokespersons in the Stortinget. When he asked oral questions on 21 February about whom he had spoken to, he denied the information it was referred to, and referred to that he had spoken to the committee. Will the Council of State regret that he has provided the Storting with incorrect information?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e707	I replied as I did in Stortinget's spontaneous question hour last Wednesday because I asked myself incomprehensible about both the premise and the angle in the representative Rise's question. Of course, I am fully aware that I have not had talks with the defence-policy spokespersons individually, much less assured that they will secure the majority behind the proposals in the proposition. On the other hand, I have met the Defence Committee, where the defence policy spokespersons – with the exception of SV – are sitting. During the meetings that took place on 28 September, 30 November and 7 February, I discussed some of the main issues related to the work on the proposition. I felt it was of mutual benefit, but such contact naturally obliges neither the Government nor the Committee. After seeing the representative's question, I have heard a recording from my press conference on 16 February. A particular sentence can be clearly interpreted as having had individual meetings with the defence policy spokespersons, i.e. outside the Committee's framework. I'm sorry about that. But that was the contact I have now referred to, which was my concern. On the other hand, I said about the concrete support for the proposition: ‘They’ – i.e. the defence spokespersons – ‘can’t, of course, give a blank mandate in relation to a proposition they haven’t seen’. Then I added: ‘But we’re doing nothing else now than the actions of the Defence Study 2000 and Defence Policy Selection with cross-political representation of all parties’. And on that basis I am still not pessimistic, which was my initial statement at this press conference on that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e731	I would first like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and he is now saying he is sorry for what he said at the press conference, which gave the impression of something other than the case. But he has also confirmed here that he chose to refer from the conversations he has had, i.e. that the defence policy spokespersons did not give a blank mandate to a proposition that they had not seen. I see that this was in a way the main reason why the Council of State is not now a pessimist. So the conversations he's had in the committee have led to the state council not being pessimistic about getting a majority. It is absolutely right that there have been several meetings in the committee. But I allowed myself to ask in the Questionnaire last Wednesday about who had had conversations with the Council of State, and then got this with the committee to answer. [[The President clubs]] Should I ask the follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e742	Yes, but briefly – the time is actually out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e745	Since there was a rejection that there had been some talks with the defense spokespersons, I found no reason to ask this question, and I now see that the Council of State perceives the meetings he has had in the committee, as a place where he can plan a new proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e750	No, I really don't want to say that. The starting point was that after contacting the head of the Defence Committee, I thought it might be useful to explain the work that was going on, in such a big case, and I understood that it was the general agreement of the Committee. I have not, either at the press conference or otherwise, referred from any opinions within the committee. It was supposed to be missing, too. It's for my account what I'm saying, that nobody, of course, through such a process can give a blank authorization to anything in any direction in a proposition. It's a quote from myself, and not from anyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e757	It is obvious that the Council of State has seen the meeting with the Committee as a sort of clarification, as he refers to feedback he has received, and has been so good that he can advertise at the press conference of these talks and draw a conclusion that he now does not need to be pessimistic about obtaining a majority in this regard. I wonder if the Council of State sees any constitutional innovation in what has happened here, when a Council of State sits down and discusss with the Committee in advance a proposition that has not been put before the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e764	I was quite careful not to present any part of the proposition in any of these meetings, and the background for it was that the proposition did not exist. There was therefore no draft to be submitted, and it would be relatively wild – excuse me – to do so in relation to a document that does not exist. But there was a need from me to present views on progress, work and main content, and I had the impression that it was seen as of mutual benefit. But there are other things that make me not pessimistic, and I referred to it at the end of my answer. We are broadly following the recommendations that relate to major operating reductions and a reduction in the number of defence employees to get more money at the pointed end of the defense, exactly in line with the recommendation of the Defence Policy Selection and the Defence Study 2000. Of course, it is also based on the impressions I have had in many defence policy discussions across the country. Everyone says that this is good, but of course, you reserve the details of the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e769	Then we go to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e775	This question, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, as appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e778	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘According to the newspaper Nordlys 20 February 2001, the inter-municipal company Waste Service AS has a tax exemption. The company participates in a tendering round which has been throughout the EEA territory. This leads to distortions of competition with respect to other tenderers, who pay taxes. Is this contrary to EEA rules in the case of public subsidy?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e787	The representative of Korsberg refers to the EEA Public Procurement Code and the corresponding rules on public aid. Under the EEA Public Procurement Code, the existence of any or actual public subsidies to a company participating in a tendering round under the EEA Code is not in itself contrary to the principle of non-discrimination between operators. This has also recently been established in a European Court of Justice ruling. The EEA State Aid Code is based on a general ban on aid in a form which favours certain undertakings. Although the design of national tax rules initially falls outside the EEA Agreement, it cannot be excluded that the tax rules could lead to, for example: inter-municipal companies benefit at the public expense resulting in distortions of competition contrary to the EEA State aid rules. The company in question is, as a limited liability company, a separate tax entity. Paragraphs 2-32 of the Tax Act provide that «undertakings... which do not have acquisitions for their purposes are exempt from property and income taxes.» This means that it will be possible to invoke this provision when the conditions for freedom of tax developed in legal and equality practices are fulfilled. The rules apply regardless of whether the company is public or private. As I understand that tax exemption rule, it means that the activity of an intermunicipal AS can be set up so that it is not considered by the local authorities to have acquired for purposes. Where a company has an acquisition as its object, local authorities must treat the inter-municipal company in the same way as other commercial operators. In the event of a change in activity, a company which has previously had no acquisitions for the purpose of the acquisition may be considered to have acquisitions for the purpose of such acquisition at a later stage. Thus, the tax regime aims at tax similarity of commercial activities, i.e.: business with acquisitions as its object. Thus, with regard to the definition of the tax status of a company, the provisions of the Tax Code are clear within the EEA Agreement. I also recall that it follows from the EEA State aid rules that public authorities as owners of inter-municipal and other public companies must manage their activities in an economically rational manner in accordance with the market investor principle. Otherwise, the EFTA Surveillance Authority has the possibility to authorise State aid for waste management on the basis of its environmental aid guidelines. However, I assume that it is not appropriate to apply for such an authorisation. To conclude, I therefore assume that the tax rules for inter-municipal limited liability companies, including the general tax exemption clause in Section 2-32 of the Tax Act, are in line with the EEA State aid rules. And as mentioned earlier, it is the local equality authorities that are then to treat an intermunicipal company in a non-profit way with other commercial actors when a company has an acquisition as its object.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e808	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There was a long answer, and there was a lot of technical in it, to say it like that. I almost regret that I asked this question orally and not in writing, so that I could go through it a little more carefully. However, according to what the Council of State said, it is suggested that there may be some local variations as it is the local Equations Offices that are to deal with this issue. For me, it is important that there be equal treatment between the companies that are to compete on this kind of mission. The government and several government councils have called for the renewal of the public sector. Is this a way of renewing the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e817	What is clear is that publicly owned companies have full access to competitions for deliveries to countries and municipalities in the same way as other companies – and that should be lacking. This also applies when international bidding rounds are held. In such rounds and competitions, the supplier who has the most advantageous offer is the one who is to be awarded the contract. You follow normal, regular procedures, and it's completely independent of who actually owns the group or the company. However, with regard to the issue of the tax rules themselves, the question of which tax rules apply in the specific case, there is once again something for local tax authorities to take their position on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e824	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that, whether a public or private company is to compete, there must be as much as possible a level playing field. I understand that it is not in this case, where one should then facilitate the possibility of getting local variation in terms of tax exemptions and such things. It has also appeared in the specific matter I referred to in my main question. Will the Council of State ensure that in the future – I do not know whether it is under the Department of this Council of State – there will be clear guidelines, so that there will be a completely equal way of competing and that does not conflict with the EEA rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e831	Both the EEA rules and the tendering rules are clear here. You do not care when you want to compete for a tender, whether you are private or public. Then there are the tax systems, and in this case it has to be addressed through the tax authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e838	Then we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e844	I will be asked the following questions: ‘The new legislation on labour market measures which is being consulted will not improve the possibilities for some groups of disabled persons to receive taxable income from the labour market measure or from an external employer. The Council of State will ensure, inter alia, that: social persons without social security rights are given the opportunity to receive wages and salaries in order to approximate the status of ordinary employees?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e853	Participants in labour market measures support different living conditions, including: depending on the type of action to which they are based. That applies today, and I see that as an important principle to continue. I emphasize that wages are linked to work. Therefore, as in the past, the Ministry proposes wages and salaries in wage and salary schemes and participation in temporary employment measures. Compensation of employees is paid in employment under normal working conditions. In temporary employment measures, which are intended to provide work experience, work is also carried out. The work shall be exceptional, but in the sense that it shall not disrupt the ordinary labour force of the establishment. These measures will be open to the socially disabled. In the case of work practices – action places that provide clarification and organised job training with follow-up – I have intended that no pay should be paid. The same applies to training activities. In that case, participants should receive individual benefits, which are not taxable. The same principle applies today. The Ministry has also proposed to continue today's rule that it is not possible to keep the individual benefit if he is paid at the same time. I see it as important that the participants, as they exercise their working capacity, either shift to other labour market measures, which provide wages or training, or get into regular work. It has been suggested that Aetat can achieve this through action chaining or dissemination. Overall, more use of local discretion in the formulation of measures is an important element of the new response structure. The objective is successful integration into the ordinary work of vulnerable groups. Then I think it is wrong to combine wages with short-term living benefits, which is what the questioner wants. I sent a proposal for a new and simpler regulation of labour market measures at the hearing on 19 January this year. The hearing period is set at 20 April. In any case, I will of course only take a stand on any changes to the arrangement when I have received – and have assessed – the hearing opinions together. I would also like to point out that the representative Lund raises a problem that has been raised in a previous question, and that the Council of State Giske answered on my behalf on 22 November last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e870	I thank you for the answer, and I am glad that the Council of State has a small opening to be able to change what is in what has been sent out. Those working on this type of measure want those persons who have long gone on social assistance to be able to drop their status as social clients when they are to be prepared to become ordinary employees. Those who have a disability benefit or reinstatement may have NOK 2000 to 4000 in addition to their social security without losing any of the social security, while those who do not have social security rights and who receive the new basic benefit of NOK 5000 per month and who are in work training in ordinary enterprises cannot be paid. They have to apply for social assistance if they have so much expenditure that they need it. Does not the Council of State also believe that there is a strong motivation for this group to be able to receive an extra benefit for the efforts they are making by being in training at work?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e881	In principle, I believe that it is the nature of the measure that is essential for you to have a salary or an individual benefit. It is therefore the nature of the measure that should be decisive, not the social status of those taking the different measures. This, in my view, provides the best and most reasonable equal treatment. However, if this is the case – and I am proposing that we have a system that makes it flexible and possible to make individual adjustments – that, in order to get social welfare beneficiaries into order of business, it is necessary to make combinations in order to achieve this, then of course we should add that the legislation we are going to have should give it the opportunity if that is what can be done to get the social welfare beneficiary into a fixed employment relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e888	I understand that for the group that I'm talking about now, the work training will consist of that they can be out in ordinary businesses. In many cases, companies are willing to pay extra pay because they get this help. And those who work on the measures say that there's a strong motivation for them. They have also read these proposals for new rules so that they are not given the opportunity to receive this salary. I hope that the Council of State based on both this enquiry that I have received and that has been brought up here now, and what has been brought up with the Council of State in the past, and the statements that come to these rules, will consider this in such a way that it will be more flexible than what is read out of the rules today. And as I have been informed, there have been signals from the Labour Directorate on the way, before these rules were sent out, that this time it was going to be changed so that this closure described here would be completely removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e895	Now I'm going to wait until I get all the hearing replies back, when they're processed by the Directorate of Labour. Of course, I'm going to be open to making changes to the legislation that will give you flexible solutions, if that's what it takes to get people into permanent, regular work. And I'm determined that one of the tools we're going to use for either disability – temporary or permanent – or social assistance clients is to be wage subsidies, i.e., that the government is going into active use of grants to get both work training and training in order to be able to do a full-time job. If combinations of different social welfare schemes are needed in order to succeed, of course, we should be open to this. I believe that work with wage subsidies is work, and it is to be paid for, and then we have to make sure that the total salary – what you get from the employer, and the wage subsidy – is such that it is to live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e905	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: «When VAT on services is introduced from 1 July, 60 000 new businesses must submit VAT returns every two months. For individual enterprises in particular, this amounts to a disproportionate amount of time and resources. Agriculture already has a system for submitting the VAT returns at the end of the year together with the annual accounts. Farmers are thus saved from unnecessary red tape. Will the Council of State ensure that individual undertakings can have a similar system?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e914	The reform of value added tax, which enters into force on 1 July of this year, implies the introduction of a general VAT obligation on the turnover of services. It implies that all services, like goods, are subject to VAT unless they are expressly exempted from it. The obligation to pay value added tax implies the imposition on the trader of a number of obligations. The trader must, inter alia: send written notification of the activities to the charging authorities, calculate the final charge for taxable turnover, submit forward forwarded trading tasks and layout the accounts in accordance with the detailed provisions of accounting law. The question put by the representative, Mr Nakkim, is based on the assumption that there are 60 000 new businesses which have to submit VAT returns every two months. According to information The Ministry of Finance has collected from the Tax Directorate, this was the original figure calculated before passenger transport and overnight stays were excluded from the VAT area as a result of the budget agreement. However, in the initial estimate of new activities falling within the VAT range, it was not included for operators to make use of the voluntary registration for rental to registered establishments. Therefore, on the basis of the information provided by the Directorate-General for Taxation, it is estimated that between 50 000 and 60 000 new establishments will be included in the charging area by introducing the VAT reform. I see that the introduction of the reform will result in a number of entrepreneurs getting a new system of rules to deal with. My objective is to simplify legislation, including less bureaucracy to deal with individual VAT-payers. Work on the follow-up to the reform is now under way in the Ministry of Finance. We will consider different ways to simplify legislation, and I will continue to focus on schemes that can make everyday life easier for those who are subject to VAT. In order to facilitate the transition for those affected, the Directorate for Taxation has initiated an information work. It is aimed at both the tax haven and the operators who are subject to the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e925	I note that the Minister of Finance shows a positive willingness to be able to do something about the legislation, but that he will not make any promises or say anything about it now – and not at all about the system that agriculture has received. The Minister of Labour and Administration has repeatedly stood here in the pulpit and said that it is necessary to simplify the legislation in order to get people out, they should not be sitting in the offices. I see that the Minister of Finance is also on the way to thinking that idea, and my question is then: why can't you try to do this at a time when you can implement the scheme – not that you first implement the scheme and then try to simplify the rules? We know that is very difficult, so I hope the Minister of Finance would try to take a roof now and not delay this in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e932	In general, I think it's important to simplify things. I had the pleasure of doing it last week with the famous postal packages. What we have to constantly have a look at is how we can make simplifications. In this context, of course, when 50 000 to 60 000 enter the VAT area on the one hand, this will lead to a new regulatory approach. On the other hand, my aim is to see if it is possible to organise the legislation to minimise the burden. And then I agree with questioning that it is important to think thoroughly about whether there can be simplifications in relation to these groups even before the reform is introduced. It may then be relevant to look at experience in other areas. The representative has therefore understood me correctly when she says that I have a positive will, but I have as general principle not to promise until I am sure that I can keep. So now I'll first check what I can hold, before I give the promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e939	I think it's positive that the finance minister shows so much will, but I wish he could express even greater will, so that you could do this with effect from 1 July or from the first submitted task, so we knew what we had to stick to. Now we see that the legislation itself after the treatment in Stortinget is going to be quite complicated for a good part of them that comes under the legislation, both in sports and in the hotel industry, but also in car rental companies, which, of course, have three regulations to deal with during 2001. If you cannot do this, I would say that the VAT reform has been introduced too early. This should be able to go hand in hand. When the new VAT reform is introduced, it should also be possible to have simplified legislation. I hope the Minister of Finance puts himself in line, so that this can be done by 1 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e946	I have no further comment, but I maintain what I said instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e954	I have allowed myself to promote the following questions to the Minister of Finance: «Books are currently exempt from VAT. However, in connection with the extension of VAT from 1 July, books distributed and sold over the Internet, so-called e-books, will be subject to VAT. Books printed on paper will remain exempt from VAT. The result is that e-books have a competitive disadvantage compared to printed books. Will the Council of State ensure a level playing field by exempting the sale of e-books from VAT?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e963	The general rule is that VAT should be paid on all sales of goods, and I was concerned with the previous question: after 1 July 2001, there is also a general obligation to pay for the movement of services. However, the turnover of books at the last stage of turnover is exempt from VAT, as the representative refers to. However, as in the case of newspapers, activities with the marketing of books may deduct an in-depth charge from their acquisitions. It is described as zero-rate charging and involves indirect subsidisation through the VAT system. Any exemption from the fee obligation requires a restriction on taxable turnover. The exemption for printed paper, which is justified by language and cultural policy, thus poses many problems of demarcation and gives rise to distortions of competition. This applies, inter alia, to: in the relationship between printed publications and publications published otherwise than in printed form. For example, the turnover of publications in CD-ROMs is considered to be the taxable turnover of goods. Image publications, including a number of art books, have in practice also fallen outside the scope of the book exemption because it was originally intended to exempt the printed word and not any type of publication. The issues related to the exemption from printing include: referred to in the Ministry of Finance's proposal for the introduction of general VAT on the turnover of services. Here I'm referring to the proposition. The Ministry pointed out here that the general obligation to charge for the movement of services could result in further distortions of competition by also making the movement of digitally transmitted publications subject to charging. I am referring to the fact that there are strong arguments in principle against introducing zero rates for certain taxable enterprises. As mentioned above, the zero rate would involve indirect subsidisation through the VAT system by granting the establishment full right of deduction for the input tax, while not responding to the tax through the turnover. However, the fact that an exemption has been granted in one case does not justify any further exemption.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e976	I think it's a regrettable approach the Minister of Finance chooses to have on my question. I cannot help but understand that here one chooses to break all the principles of the Storting in terms of guidelines and decisions regarding the protection of the principle that literature should be exempt from VAT in Norway. That's the one. The second is that it has been established that Norway should do what it can to facilitate increased use and increased opportunities for electronic commerce. I cannot then understand – bearing in mind that the Minister of Finance himself refers to the rules on VAT on books from 1969 – that it is not understood that 30 years have passed and that it must be almost impossible to distinguish between printed words today. The point is to get this distributed, and to stimulate the use of literature. Then you can't radically distinguish between the printed and unpublished words.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e983	Firstly, I have to point out again that the Storting was well aware of this issue through the review given in the proposition. In addition, there are difficult demarcation issues related to VAT, not least in exempted areas and areas where a zero rate is applied. That's what we're also facing here, where there are difficult boundaries, to which I referred, in relation to what's presented on CD-ROMs and in relation to some image books. There have been questions about the relationship between books and not books, etc., so I think we have to admit that we are facing difficult borderlines here. I am not prepared to note that the exemption should be extended to what is distributed in digital form. As far as e-commerce is concerned, it will significantly relate to orders over the Internet, not only to downloads over the Internet.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e990	I just have to repeat that I am very disappointed with the Minister of Finance's answer, and I have to say that it is in stark contrast to what the Norwegian pottery first adopted earlier on the possibility of stimulating literature – and in particular Norwegian literature, which is to be easily accessible to the Norwegian people. So here you give a price quote for e-books, which of course will go into disfavor with the printed books in terms of production and distribution. The second is that when we have a government that started by pointing out that it was going to be an e-government, under the direction of Grete Knudsen, this must eventually become quite meaningless. Then my request to the Minister of Finance is that he should reconsider this. What publishers in Norway might be willing to bet on developing and stimulating libraries, schools and institutions for the use of so-called e-literature, with the attitude of the current government on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e997	I have to be allowed to repeat what I said instead, that the Stortinget was well informed about this effect of the VAT reform, and that the Stortinget has joined this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1012	This question falls away. Question 7 has been answered earlier in today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1020	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Health: ‘Physiotherapists having an operating contract may sell parts or all of the operating contract to other therapists. In many places, such agreements are sold at very high prices. The therapists purchasing parts of an agreement may treat the unlimited number of patients and obtain full reimbursement for all. Is this in line with the legislation, and if not, will the Council of State clear up the matter and provide for equal opportunities for all authorised therapists for the benefit of the large number of patients in need of such services?»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1029	The representative, Nesvik, addresses several issues. I must first say that it is not such that physiotherapists who have an operating contract can freely sell all or part of the contract to other therapists. It is the municipality that determines the number of posts and other forms of contract for physiotherapists that are needed and that makes announcements and additions to the homes. The rules for this are laid down in the Agreement on Operational Contractual Practices between the Local Governments’ Central Association and the Norwegian Physiotherapists’ Association. Whether a physiotherapist is required to take over an existing practice at the time of conclusion of an operating agreement, the replacement therapist has the right to settle inventories and equipment at tariff rate and for established practices of up to 20 pst. of the average turnover over the last three years. If a physiotherapist wishes to reduce the operational contract, it may be appropriate for the municipality to call a new part-time home to maintain the capacity of the service. The agreement between the KS and the Physiotherapeutic Association does not regulate any economic relationship between the two physiotherapists in these cases. I am not aware that financial settlement is common to a large extent in such cases, and I have been informed that this issue is also unknown to the Local Governments' Central Association. In this respect, it is correct, as indicated in the question, that the scope of an operating agreement does not restrict the right of reimbursement of the contract holder. It has not been considered desirable or practicable to set such limits on reimbursement payments in proportion to the scope of the agreement. However, both the Ministry and the other parties assume that the municipalities establish positions and contractual arrangements in accordance with the need for services. In the final analysis, I am somewhat uncertain about what is meant by the proposal to provide ‘equal opportunities for all authorised therapists’. If it is intended that all authorised physiotherapists should have a municipal operating agreement, I will once again maintain that it is the individual municipality that is itself closest to assessing the needs of the municipality. If it is intended that all physiotherapists should be entitled to social security redeployment regardless of whether they have an operating contract, I would point out that the physiotherapy service is geographically very fragmented, with a strong concentration in central lines. One of the aims of the regulatory adjustments, and I refer to legislative changes implemented in 1993 and 1998, has been to counteract that trend, and I find it difficult to see that there is now reason to reconsider it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1040	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was a little strange to me to hear that this situation was unknown to both the KS and the Department, for in the ‘Physiotherapy in Private Policy No. In fact, 1 to 2000’ is a major article about this particular problem under the heading ‘The authorities must clean up the corruption’ in this field. In the context of the implementation of the Municipal Health Service Act in 1982, some physical institutions were awarded operating contracts, which of course were linked to operating grants, and thus also to the reimbursement of patients. This has led to the possibility for owners holding operating grants to use this option, inter alia. To take high rental prices, and when new ones are coming in, you actually have to buy in to benefit from it. Will the Council of State at least look at this issue so that it can be ascertained whether there is a problem with the sale of operating contracts?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1051	I can confirm that I will. I have to say again that I am not aware that it should be what was referred to as corruption-like conditions in the industry, but I will of course go back and take it up. If it turns out that this is the type of most critical issue to which the representative Nesvik refers, the authorities will, of course, also take action to clean it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1056	I, the undersigned, have, inter alia: contacted several physiotherapists, who have pointed out precisely these issues. It is actually the sale of contracts for up to NOK 500000 – in order to trigger the refund bit, which is the result of the operating grant. In the case of ‘equal opportunities for all’ – if I thought in my question that everyone would receive operating grants, or if it was a reimbursement from social security – it is the part that authorised physiotherapists should be able to receive reimbursement. Of course, the thinking around it is that it is the patient who must be the triggering factor for whether to get a refund from the social security for the service offered. Will the Council of State take a look at that issue? There are long waiting lists in physical therapy with people who need it. It is important that the patient be placed in focus, and that the patient should trigger reimbursement from social security and not the operating grant from the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1065	I confirm again that I will look into and take into account the facts that the representative Nesvik mentioned about the sale of contracts. When it comes to the last question, I would say again that it must be the individual municipality that is closest to assessing the needs of its municipality. But of course, I'm also going to see if there are examples that show that this is not happening, or that there are waiting times that are incompatible with what is normal in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1075	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘There can be no reimbursement when a county acquires patient treatment from contract specialists outside hospitals. Today’s legislation does not allow ISF reimbursement of operations purchased at a private clinic. Will the Council of State consider whether a change in the rules of the financing mechanism may be appropriate to help more patients out of the operating queues more quickly?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1084	I could answer a simple yes to the representative's question. I am aware of the problem raised by the representative and have already started working on possible solutions. My intention is to increase treatment capacity in the relevant areas. I have initiated a process aimed at including the contract specialists in the ISF base of the county councils. This work includes, inter alia: an assessment of whether this can be carried out without budgetary implications. In addition, good recording and checking procedures must be established for the basis of payment. These are circumstances in which such changes should be dealt with primarily in the ordinary budgetary processes. Depending on the impact, I aim to promote proposals for necessary legislative changes at the earliest in the revised national budget and at the latest in the 2002 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1098	I thank you for the answer, which I see very positively – I am very pleased with it. However, I would also like to go a little further, because the aim of the ISF, which was adopted in the Stortingen in 1996, was to increase the activity of the country’s hospital and to increase treatment activity to reduce unnecessary waiting time and ensure the fulfilment of the waiting time guarantee. The background to the question to the Council of State is that a hospital has purchased 24 operations at a private health and sports clinic, where the same doctors who are employed at the hospital operate. The aim was to help several patients out of the operating queue. If these were to have been treated at the hospital, the staff had to be engaged with overtime payment, which would be significantly more expensive than using the private clinic. We've had trials with free hospital choice, and now it's free hospital choice. Does the Minister of Health consider it appropriate for patients to travel far from home, to hospitals in other counties, in order to receive treatment at a private clinic near the place of residence?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1103	In principle, I cannot believe that this is appropriate, and I would think that if you get solutions to the first question, it will also address the issue that the representative is now addressing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1108	I thank you for a good answer and have another question. The guidance on ISF 2001 published by the Ministry describes the scope of the scheme, which includes hospitalisation and patients treated with day surgery, etc. In addition, the scheme includes births and county-referenced patients treated in hospitals abroad due to capacity problems in own hospitals, etc. The treatment shall be carried out on behalf of the county councils in county, state or other officially approved hospitals. At the same time, some criteria have been established to include new institutions in the ISF scheme, namely that patient treatment is such that it is natural for the ISF scheme to be remunerated and that activity data of satisfactory quality can be provided – some of which the Council of State responded to in the past. But my question is: does the Council of State see that the guidance, in addition to the objective of the ISF, can be understood as it is done in good faith from this hospital? Is it perhaps necessary to make more precise clarifications in this area before one is allowed to proceed with the matter as the Council of State has thought?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1113	I have to regret that there is a little too detailed question that I dare answer directly to this. I will, of course, consider whether there is a need for clarification, as the representative asks, but I dare not answer this more specifically now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1128	This question lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1135	‘Does the Council intend to take the initiative to reopen the injection room at the Oslo Prostitution Centre so that many lives can be saved and the drug injectors show dignity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1140	The injection room at the center of prostitutes in Oslo was opened and closed without any contact from either the centre or the Municipality of Oslo with me or others in the Ministry of Social and Health. The establishment of injection rooms is contrary to the provisions of the UN Conventions on Drugs, which emphasises that drug use should only be permitted for medical and scientific purposes. Norway has ratified all three UN conventions and is obliged to comply with them under international law. Countries that have nevertheless opened injection rooms have chosen to interpret the legislation on their own. Denmark, which at some point considered doing the same, chose to ask the United Nations Drug Control Council for an opinion. The Council’s assessment was quite clear, and Denmark therefore did not proceed with the plans. The drug problem is international. I therefore see it as important that Norway acts with credibility in relation to the conventions that we are putting ourselves behind. However, I am continually following up international work, including on harm reduction measures. In this context, I find it difficult to see that I should be able to take initiatives at this stage to set up injection rooms. However, I am concerned about looking for measures that could reduce overdoses. We know from Oslo that the many targeted measures taken by the municipality have helped to reduce both overdoses and overdose deaths in public places. Among these measures is the so-called field care, which is a low-threshold health service for drug addicts. Most deaths are now occurring in private homes and/or in residential centres. Here we need other tools than on the street. Improving the housing situation of the most disadvantaged and providing adequate individual follow-up and support is probably one of the most important challenges we face. The project for the most disadvantaged homeless, recently launched by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the House Bank, will provide valuable knowledge of this arena. With state support, several low-threshold healthcare services are established for drug users in several Norwegian cities. Good results are reported. I will make sure to summarise the experiences and make them known to all the municipalities in the country. Otherwise there is a need for a wide bet. We need more knowledge in the field, we need to focus on further prevention and treatment, and not least we need to get hold of the drugs and find the cynical backers. The action plan on drugs, which we are now in the process of implementing, will provide a golden opportunity to focus on key actions in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1153	I would like to thank the Council of State for its answer, which refers to the fact that there are international treaties that prevent us from establishing injection rooms in Norway. Nevertheless, this has been done in Frankfurt, with good luck and with good results, also professionally assessed. And then the question is, are you going to deal more with international treaties than saving the lives of young people in Norway? I do not know that there has been any reaction to Frankfurt from the international environment and the UN in relation to their practice of using injection rooms. On the other hand, Norway has for a long time practised this with spraybuses in Oslo, where it delivers clean, unused syringes to prevent, for example, transmission of infection, such as hepatitis, etc. And my follow-up question to the Social Minister in the first place is: what is the fundamental difference between supplying publicly paid syringes to those drug addicts who are to be used for the same purpose, and the fact that they can put their so-called shots under health supervision and supervision? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1160	I have to admit that I think this is a difficult question. Drug use is an illegal activity. On the other hand, we have a group of sick and tired young people living with an ever-threatening threat of loss of life. For this reason, in recent years, there have been several types of harm-reduction effects that do not require drug-free treatment or stop using drugs. This, I think, is a sensible development when we see how things have gone with the group of drug addicts. And one of the reasons we see so many deaths now is enough that this group of worn-out drug addicts is large. Nevertheless, I am very concerned about them, and I will continue to assess all measures that can improve their health.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1165	Once again, I thank the Social Minister for the answer and I am pleased with the care shown here in relation to this group of fellow people, who are perhaps the most unhappy in our country. But I didn't get an answer to my first follow-up question: what is the fundamental difference? When we allow spraybuses, I assume it also violates the convention to which it is referred. For the benefit of users, we must also allow them to put these syringes where health professionals are present and where different other disorders can also be caught in the drug addicts. My last question to follow-up is this: Could the Minister of Social Affairs, despite this convention referred to, imagine a probationary system with injection rooms for a six-month period, and see if it had any impact on both overdose deaths and transmission of infectious diseases, and evaluate this, and then come back to the matter at a later stage? At the same time, I assume that our UN authorities will continue to contribute to a change in the provisions on the prohibition of the use of injection rooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1172	I'm sorry I didn't respond properly to the first follow-up question. There is no major difference in principle, but it is actually the case that syringe distribution is recognised internationally, while injection rooms are not. When it comes to whether I want to be in favour of a probationary system, I would like to answer this question: I am going to the United States and meet those who are working on drugs policy there, and I will, of course, discuss this question then. I'll be there before Easter, so it could happen quite quickly. I'm also going to meet with the City Council for Social Affairs in Oslo tomorrow, where we're also going to discuss this, and we're going to see what we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1182	I have this question to the Minister for Transport: ‘The Oslo T-Bahn is Norway’s largest rail transport system, with approx. 70 million travellers per year. The Municipality of Oslo has undertaken to resume the maintenance kit and renew the wagon equipment. To get a modern metro, investments are also required. How will the State contribute to the development of the T-Bahn in the context of the action programme to be submitted soon in the context of the national transport plan?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1191	Initially, I would like to point out the strong commitment to public transport in Oslopackak 2. Oslopackak 2 assumes that the State, Akershu County Municipality, Oslo Municipality and the road users will join forces to accelerate the development of public transport in the Oslo area. The State assumes responsibility for the railway development included in Oslopackak 2, with funding in full above the State budget. And with the increase that Stortinget has made in the treatment of the national transport plan, this signals a further strengthening of the state's efforts. It must now be expected that the municipalities of Oslo and Akershus County are also giving high priority to collective action. I therefore find it unfortunate that the local authorities have not yet taken binding decisions on the increase in the price of the bombing. The increase in public service charges is provided for at the same time as for the increased toll charges. In order not to weaken the revenue base, it is important to start the increase in the cost of road transport charges as soon as possible. Then to the T-Bahn. – The starting point is that the responsibility for the T-Bahn is with the municipality of Oslo. However, the State has indicated that a significant proportion of the costs of developing different T-Bahn projects are covered by State resources and tolls. I'm referring to the T-banning as one example. This is about 75 pst. of the total cost of approximately 900 million. kr is financed by State resources and tolls. With regard to the further follow-up of the national transport plan, the Railway Agency Region East, Statens vägvesen Akershus and the Statens vägvesen Oslo will submit a joint proposal for an action programme for Oslopackakt 2 for the period 2002-2005. This will be the basis for and part of the rolling action programmes to be submitted on 15 March 2001. In this context, the agencies will show the framework that the State proposes to use for public transport during this period. The municipalities of Oslo and Akershus will give their opinion on the proposed priority by 20 June 2001. It is clear that a state contribution to the development of the T-Bahn during this period is the completion of the T-Bahn, which will make the areas of expansion Blindern/Gaustadbeckdalen, Nydalen and Storo/Sinsen more accessible by public transport than today. As far as I know, Oslo Sporveier has developed an overall concept for upgrading the T-Bahn to metro standards. The municipality has committed itself to cover the costs of renewal and maintenance of the T-railway network and the renewal of wagon equipment. AS Oslo Sporveier has estimated that there is a need of approximately 2 250 million. kr for upgrading the T-rail network to metro standard. Work on the action programme will assess whether any of the upgrading of the T-Bahn network should be prioritised within the frameworks drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1208	I think it is very positive that in the context of the action programme it will be assessed whether parts of the extra bet to extend the T-track to the metro will be taken up, and, of course, looks forward to its assessment. It is well known that the system that was developed in its time has been long, and when something wears down, it costs a lot to take it back. Taking in a maintenance allowance of SEK 1.6 billion is important. The Municipality of Oslo has committed itself to this. Taking back the 4 billion kroner of vehicle equipment is absolutely necessary. But my supplementary question to the Council of State is: is he open to the fact that not only will he purchase new material in connection with the T-banning, but he will also be able to enter the renewal process with the vehicles that are already worn out?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1215	As far as the post-2007 situation is concerned, much remains unclear. Among other things, there is a proposal in this house for access to so-called road pricing. If it is adopted by Stortinget, it will provide an opportunity for, among other things, Oslo municipality to go into this after 2007. As you know, the government has proposed that it should be dependent on local digestion. At all, I want to say that from the state side, I want to add that we are open to add up to both spice layers and different ways of organizing this, so that we can increase the total collective share and not least make sure that Oslo Sporvejer and the Oslo Sporveier stand for today, become a central part of it. My starting point will be the current division of responsibilities, but the goal must be that, in sum, it will lead to a good collective system in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1222	I, of course, share the views of the Council of State on fissures. Splice layers are often dependent on psychology and the right steps, and basic attitudes are important. When I asked the question of opening up some of the things that are going to come in as soon as possible – there is the Council of State and I agree – when the bombing application to buy material can also be used to renew, it will allow an incentive to commit to this. That's why I asked that question the way I did. I hope at least that the Council of State will take that idea further as one of the contributions to redeeming the good forces in the fissure layer he himself described in an excellent way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1227	I am not in doubt that we have quite equal views on the objectives, and I will not reject that idea. But as I said in my main answer, we are now in the situation that the next concrete recording is enough for Oslo Municipality and Akershu County Municipality to follow up Oslopack 2. Then we get the treatment in this house of the road pricing proposition, and then another initiative has to come from the municipalities. That's the way the interaction has to work, precisely by showing a positive will, but you also give a positive response at the right time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1235	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Hedmark and some other counties have many traffic accidents with elk and trains. The Directorate of Nature Management and the Railway Agency have signed an agreement that the municipalities of the country are responsible for the removal of these dead animals. Does the Council of State think it is right that the municipalities should be left with the expenditure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1244	The agreement concluded between the Directorate for Nature Management and the Railway Agency intends to clarify the liability for game struck. In this context, the Contracting Parties have expressed their common view of the tasks and obligations of the Municipal Wildlife Funds under the Game Act. Municipalities are not parties to the agreement, and the agreement has no legal effect on the responsibilities of municipalities under the law on wildlife. For wildly damaged trains, the Railway Agency assists under the contract of exit to the nearest station or open-air station. The costs of such transport are borne by the Railway Agency. In addition, the Railway Agency has committed itself to dealing with security personnel in relation to the possible inspection of road damaged game by local authorities and the search along the line. The obligation of the communes in relation to wild game and wild game is governed by the Act of 29 May 1981 No. 38, game law. Section 48 on the ownership of the Viltfonds and the Municipality states: «The Community shall, as far as possible, ensure that the game is kept.» The question of whether it is correct for municipalities to pay for the removal of dead game from such a collection site is therefore a question of whether the rules of the game law are reasonable. Through the amendments to the wild game law in 2000, municipalities have taken over the income and expenditure of the felling game. The income from the felling game and the collection fees for elk and deer are part of the municipal game fund. The wild funds shall cover the expenditure related to all game management in the municipalities. I can therefore not see that it is unreasonable that the municipalities have the task of removing damaged game.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1262	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The agreement we are talking about has replaced an agreement of 1 November 1974, which was certainly the subject of a new assessment. What I find strange is that the municipalities do not have the opportunity to participate in the design of this agreement. As it works today, this is a huge expense for the municipalities, as it is very rarely possible to get a profit from animals driven by – in this case – trains. As a rule, the animals have died after the collision, and in addition, in such a condition that it is impossible to recover any of the meat. If the animals are only damaged, but still so much damaged that they must be killed, this costs a lot in terms of labour. But the most important thing is, of course, that the suffering of the animals becomes as short as possible. With regard to wildlife funds, these are often so scarce that they do not cover the most demanding. Therefore, such accidents become a major cost item for each municipality and not least very localised. It goes without saying that the municipalities that have accidents between trains and elk are more heavily burdened than those that do not. That's where the injustice lies. Does the Council of State see this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1271	As I have been informed, the new agreement between the Directorate of Nature Management and the Railway Agency does not imply any significant new prerequisites for this activity. There is a clarification in relation to the 2000 wild game law that has made a new agreement necessary, while organisational changes have taken place on the railway side that have also updated it. As regards the costs, I have been informed that these, as I said in my main response, are covered by municipal wildlife funds, and that the income side of the game funds, as I have been informed, is essentially breeding permits. Without claiming to have expert knowledge about it, at least my logic suggests that there are opportunities to get more income from breeding permits where there is a lot of elk and deer, than where there is little elk and deer. So I'm going to assume that it's at least a significant income page if you manage this properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1281	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘Norwegian largest fishing port in volume, Måløj, is not yet approved for the reception of fish from outside the EU area. What is the reason why such approval has not been obtained, and what will the Council of State do to make progress?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1290	The so-called veterinary agreement with the EU entered into force on 1 January 1999. From that date, Norway has practised the EU's strict control of fish and fishery products imported from outside the EEA territory, both to ensure safe sea food and to facilitate market access for Norwegian seafood to the EU. ESA supervises the monitoring by Norway of the obligations under the EEA Agreement. The ESA has accepted that fish may continue to be imported directly into Norwegian fish processing establishments from outside the EEA if a control centre is established at the facilities. This ensures that established trade patterns for the Norwegian fishing industry can be maintained. No establishment in the Måløy district initially indicated its interest in participating in such a scheme. Therefore, ESA did not approve in the first round any border inspection post and its associated control centre in this area. Later, one establishment in the area has built a control centre to be manufactured for approval. The EEA Agreement specifies procedures to be followed for the approval of veterinary border controls. In areas where such controls have not been carried out in the past, the Fisheries Directorate, after finding the premises in order, shall propose to ESA the granting of such approval. Thereafter, the ESA shall carry out an inspection as a basis for any approval of the border inspection post and control centre. Since July last year, the Fisheries Directorate has asked ESA to inspect the port of Måløy border inspection post. The inspection time has been set, but ESA cancelled the inspection on the grounds that further information had to be provided first. This case has both a technical and a formal side. Aspects concerning technical requirements for control centres are handled by the Directorate of Fisheries. However, there is also a need to clarify the roles and obligations of ESA and Norwegian fisheries authorities, respectively, in relation to the approval of veterinary border inspection posts and inspection centres for fish. I have therefore personally asked that a meeting be held as soon as possible with ESA to find a solution to the problems related to the approval of veterinary border controls for fish that the representative Lie addresses in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1307	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I thought was defensive in relation to the facts. I think it's the public's job, based on the ESA directive and the EEA agreement for approval, to get to border inspection posts. It surprises me very much that the Ministry of Fisheries has not taken this matter up before, as one knows that Måløy is one of the largest, not to say the largest, fishing port we have. I'm glad that the Council of State will follow this up, and I expect that a person will get ahead of him, so that we can get this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1312	It is true that Måløy is one of our most important fishing ports, a very important fishing port. But in Måløy port, as well as in all other ports, it is not only up to the Norwegian authorities to carry out a check as a result of the fact that we have external border controls on behalf of the EU. It was regrettable that a station in Måløy was not started when they drove the first round to get these approved. Of course, we're going to do what's in our power to get these things approved and in order, but it's a reality that it's not just up to us. I believe that now that I have written directly to the ESA President and asked to clarify these conditions, we will get the necessary progress in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1317	I thank the Council of State for taking a strong interest in the matter, and I expect that it will be a follow-up in line with that. What I see as very positive in the Council of State's response is that he is now taking responsibility for this being done. It may not be dependent on an individual undertaking to obtain such an authorisation. One must look at ports as a port and as the largest fishing port we have in the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1322	I'm saying that I've taken this initiative, I'm going to make sure that we get the necessary progress in this, and that we're also going to point out to ESA that this has taken too long to clarify in a good way. I have great faith that we will find a quick and good solution also for Måløj port.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1330	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Our newly appointed Coastal Director claims in the Evening Post that the Coastal Agency is responsible for surveillance of the coast during peacetime and the Defence during wartime. It is well the responsibility of the Coast Guard Agency to monitor and guide shipping in order to protect the environment in particularly vulnerable areas. Can the newspaper posts of the Coastal Director be interpreted as looking at several tasks to be solved, based on user financing and increased costs of an already under pressure industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1339	The chronicle of the Coastal Director in the Evening Post on 14 February of this year must be seen in the light of recent events on the coast and the technical developments of recent years with new opportunities to monitor maritime traffic along the coast. In this way, the interest of the coastal director’s chronicle has been to make better use of the investments already made in this area, as well as to make better use of the overall future use of resources in relation to the monitoring of maritime traffic along the coast. The Ministry of Fisheries is responsible for the civil surveillance centres established for shipping. As I said, among other things, in the Grand Council Question Time on 17 January of this year, these centres are established to enable the Coastal Authority to monitor and enforce the rules of navigation and to provide the necessary information and navigation assistance to vessels operating on the inner waters covered by the centres. Three traffic centres are currently established, respectively in Horten, Oslofjord, Brevik, outside Grenland and in Fedje, Hordaland. In addition, under construction, we have a traffic centre on White Island in Rogaland, which is expected to be completed during 2002. The defence also has maritime surveillance tasks, but mainly includes monitoring off-line activity to ensure a satisfactory claim of Norwegian sovereignty. The events of recent months have shown with all possible clarity how important it is to establish a comprehensive coastal management that is able to meet the new challenges of securing our waters and our traffic controllers in a new era with completely different requirements for portability and safety than what we have been used to accepting in maritime transport. We have also had completely new and threatening challenges as a result of increased activity in the northern regions. I am thinking here of both future oil activities and all the resulting traffic and transport, and I am thinking of increasing economic activity and greater economic transparency in Russia's northern regions. We need to think new, and we need to think about totality, we need to succeed in ensuring the safety of our entire vulnerable sea area in the future. I do not overlook the fact that a new and modern coastal plant should take greater responsibility for ensuring safety in Norwegian waters. Therefore, in consultation with the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, I would like to assess the joint exploitation of surveillance data, the warning and notification and information system for maritime traffic along the coast. We also need to assess the need for new monitoring measures. The representative of Bastesen raises questions about possible consequences for the industry. It's too early to say anything about this now. The work we are now carrying out is a survey of the country's overall resource use aimed at safety related to maritime transport along the coast. I am aware that the industry pays part of the cost to the coastal management. This is an element that needs to be included in the overall assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1358	I thank you for your answer and have an additional question for the Minister for Fisheries. The Coastal Director claims that additional investment in traffic centres can be used to monitor the entire coast. All traffic centres are located in South Norway. I guess there won't be enough of two men on guard if a traffic centre is to be responsible for monitoring the entire coast. Does the Minister have any opinion on how much extra staff is involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1365	With regard to the traffic centres that are already in operation, I assume that the Coastal Administration is exercising its responsibility to ensure that these are manned to ensure safety. If this doesn't happen, of course I'll take it up. We are also constantly examining the need to establish new traffic centres, including: we examine when we can expect an increase in the amount of e.g. Russian oil transport in the northern areas. We also need to consider new measures if the situation indicates that this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1372	I have one more question. In the article of the Coastal Director, reference is also made to the use of future AIS systems, which will only be fully widespread in 2007. It also appears that the coastal director considers the use of AIS to be more cost-effective than radar monitoring. It also refers to a price estimate. I assume that the estimate is based on the use of the Defence Infrastructure, and that it is the Defence that will take responsibility for the operation of this. Does the Minister for Fisheries have any opinion on how to occupy vessels not covered by the provision for the use of transponders or the vessels which choose to deactivate that system?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1381	I think we have to make sure that we have a totality of surveillance that's good enough. I think we're going to have an open position to put into practice what might be of technical aids that come in the future. It could be an AIS system, it could be radar systems, it could be improved charts, it could be improved navigation systems. I am convinced that increasing efforts especially on electronic navigational charts will significantly improve safety along the coast. But we will at any time consider how the state, through its overall resources, can best facilitate the conditions for good coastal surveillance, so that one does not have the ability to report out of the surveillance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1396	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1402	I have the following questions for Minister of Justice Hanne Harlem: ‘A person was taken at 144 km/h in a 90 km zone at E6 in Råde in Østfold. Usually, this qualifies as a prison sentence. Instead, Moss’s city rights condemned the person to pay a fine of NOK 5000 and 14 days’ contingent punishment, because he is a Muslim and that ‘the personal pressures would be excessive’. What will the Council of State do to ensure that judgments cannot be based on religious affiliation, and that a single religion can act as a ‘adjuvant’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1411	Once the court has found that a person has committed a criminal offence, it shall impose a penalty within the limits set by the legislator. The principles of criminality are not statutory but have been governed by case-law over time. The central features of the criminal investigation are the gravity of the action and the degree of guilt that has been committed. In addition, aggravating or mitigating circumstances may exist outside the action itself. Such a mitigating circumstance may just be that prison sentences will work particularly hard, for example. due to old age, illness, malaise or other conditions. Johs. Andenæs expresses it this way in its book ‘General Criminal Law’, last edition, page 424: ‘In practice, some emphasis is also placed on whether the crime has led to serious consequences for the culprit alongside the sentence, for example. whether the driver’s driver’s licence has lost his/her post or his/her driver’s licence.’;» In other words, the Court of First Instance shall assess whether there are particular circumstances and whether this should be emphasised in the criminal investigation. This is also the case in the case of a criminal measure for speeding offences, even though the criminal measure here is so standardised that there is less scope for such individual criminal proceedings. Representative Stang asks about what I want to do with a verdict based on ‘religious affiliation’ and that ‘a simple religion can act as a ‘lending’’. I do not think this is a correct description of the point in the decision. I perceive that the court has emphasized the consequences of unconditional punishment for the sentence of her life situation, not her religious affiliation in itself. That it is generally acceptable to take such considerations into account, I have no objection to. However, whether there has been a proper assessment of the fact in the specific case and what weight any specific individual consequences should have, I do not think anything about it. It must be for the prosecution authority, as you know the case fully, to appeal if they disagree with the assessments made by the court.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1423	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am, as a politician, after the principles, nothing else, and as a member of a legislative assembly, one must have the opportunity to do so. I just want to say that there have been strong reactions here, and there are not many who share the views of the Council of State. The judges chose to take overall account of the personal circumstances of convictions, which were also addressed by the Council of State. The person's condition is that he is a Muslim, and that the punishment could be that she was left to herself and outlawed by the family, or married away in the country of origin according to Muslim standards. Here the spectrum is far to get a mild judgment, it's quite clear. Ergo – religious affiliation is a mitigating element in criminal matters, as is seen from Moss’s judgment of city law, which the Council of State was now also involved in. In my opinion, the sentence is a wrong signal to send out to the public. The law is the same for all when such relationships are taken into account – it should at least be. Does the Minister of Justice share the concerns expressed and the apparent discrimination on the basis of which there has been a speeding-up violation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1434	I still do not share the description of the case with the representative Stang. In principle, I fully agree with what is a long and firm criminal investigation practice in Norway, which generally applies in all criminal investigations, that individual elements are part of the elements to be taken into account by the court. It is entirely in line with the general principles of criminality that have always been applicable in Norway. I don't mean anything about the specific assessment in this case, because I don't know enough about it. But that the court places emphasis on relationships related to the family situation or other circumstances that make it particularly burdensome for one person to receive a punishment, which is not equally burdensome for others, is not surprising and not unusual. That's how I see the principle in the judgment we're talking about here. But as I said, the concrete assessment of whether what they're describing is right, and whether it's going to have the weight that it got here, I don't think about it. The prosecution authority must assess whether it has been wrongly assessed in their opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1441	Recently, the party council member Jens Stoltenberg urged against everyday racism, which in his opinion plagues Norwegian society. Such a judgment as that of Moss's city law, which is based on religious affiliation, states that in practical policies in Norway, discrimination based on race, faith and affiliation is currently being ensured. Then you cannot demand and encourage understanding of immigrants who are treated separately in the Norwegian legal system. Stoltenberg believes that politicians, more than anyone else, need to take the lead as examples of attitudes and concrete policies. In order to make discrimination visible, a doctor was recently convicted of breaking the law because he was pursuing an ambulance while outreaching a seriously ill patient and could therefore be considered to be in an emergency situation. It was not used. Does the Council of State in this context consider this to be a gross discrimination and that there will be reactions among the public in the Norwegian people? And is today's law good enough, seen in the light of such judgments?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1450	When representatives like Jørn Stag and others present this judgment in the way they do, saying that you are a Muslim, that you get lower punishment, they help people react, and I understand that. It is then that which contributes to the lack of understanding, and not to the fact that a court – consisting of both a tradesman and two representatives of the public, i.e. lay-offs — assesses the concrete consequences of, and individual circumstances of, this case and, where appropriate, take into account in the criminal investigation. It is quite common for individual consideration to be given to the measurement of penalties. You have to do that. If it has been specifically assessed correctly in this case, I do not mean anything about it, and I do not mean anything about it. However, the general principle is that individual consideration may be given to a criminal measure, for example: account may be taken of the loss of a job as a professional manager. I think it is right to take such individual considerations into account and therefore cannot see that the principles that this judgment expresses are wrong. But the presentation given by this, I understand that you are responding to it, and I am reacting so much to it myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1463	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The evening post writes on 20 January 2001 that the Supreme Court does not increase the level of penalties for killing, despite the fact that the Riksadvokat has sent out circulars to its state attorneys asking for longer prison sentences. According to the Evening Post, the Riksadvokat believes that 10 years of imprisonment is the appropriate punishment for a ‘common’ intentional killing, while the Supreme Court considers 8 years. The Justice Committee has repeatedly asked for the level of penalties to be raised. How can the Council of States make the courts follow up their views?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1472	The Advocate General delivered his Opinion at the sitting of the Full Court on 18 July 1996. ‘During the last ten years, there has been some tightening of the penalty for killing. The penalty for a ‘ordinary’ intentional killing without particularly aggravating or mitigating circumstances was at the beginning of the 1990s at the lower end of eight years of imprisonment. The penalty for such a situation is today approx. 9 years, but there are decisions that may indicate that the increase in the level of penalties for killing has not yet been completed. In the opinion of the national lawyer, there is reason to continue to work for a certain further increase in the penalty for killing.» The Court of Justice confirmed by its judgment of 20 December 2000 that the general level of penalties for intentional killing has evolved in recent years. In this judgment, the Supreme Court increased the sentence from seven to eight years in prison. In addition, the perpetrator was sentenced to insurance for up to five years. This was taken into account when measuring the prison sentence. By order of 4 December 2000, the Supreme Court rejected an appeal against the judgment of the Law Court in prison for five years in a case in which attempted killing was clearly dominant in criminal proceedings. The Supreme Court stated that the determination of penalties was due not only to the gravity of the case but also to the fact that the penalty was ‘a tightening of the level of penalties to date’. In its 2001 Circular to the State Attorneys of the country, the Riksadvokat states that the Supreme Court thus provides important support for the fight against repeat crime. The national lawyer emphasises that this must be followed up in prosecution practices and in criminal allegations. I agree with the Riksadvokat's views. I believe that the tightening of the penalty for killing and killing is a step in the right direction, and that this development is not over. It is therefore difficult now to have a secure view of the general level of penalties for murder cases in the future. I would like to stress that caution should also be exercised in drawing on the general consequences of the penalty in individual cases. They will always contain specific features which warrant an individual assessment, which is best taken care of by the courts. It should be the task of the courts to provide for the punishment, and the criminal framework should give the courts the freedom to adapt the penalty in each case. At the same time, however, it is very important that the courts listen to the signals of the legislator.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1491	I thank you for a very good answer. Seeing different types of crime and criminality in a larger context is something that the public notices, and something that helps shape their perception of justice. If the Council of State agrees that longer prison sentences for killing can pave the way for a higher level of punishment, including in the case of other crimes. sexual assault and rape?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1498	Yes, I agree. I believe that there is some background to the desire to increase the penalty level for killing, because killing is a crime that in many ways sets a level of how to punish other types of crime. There has been a total — more or less — accumulation that has sought to increase the level of penalties for sexual abuse. There doesn't have to be a clear link between the penalty level here and the increase in the penalty for killing, but it's natural to see it in the context. It is natural that there is a link between the level of penalties for killing and the level of penalties for sexual assault. It is necessary to look at both parts in order to have a reasonable relationship between the two types of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1505	Lower penalties for killings have consequences for the punishment of other types of crime. My previous question was about sexual assault and rape, an area where the Justice Committee has been very aware that the penalties are too low. The impression, however, is that it happens very little. If the Storting in comments says something about higher penalties and the Riksadvokat says the same thing, then two heavy players have given clear and unambiguous signals. What does the Council of State think should be done to ensure that the courts follow up these signals? It is shown that predictability and non-discrimination in relation to previously comparable cases are important. But does it have to be crucial in itself that it takes so long before we notice the stronger attitude?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1514	I feel convinced that the courts are paying attention to the signals of special legislators. What is a challenge in developing the level of penalties through the courts is that, after all, the courts judge the action. When Stortinget gives a signal, the cases that the courts have to deal with are matters that concern crimes committed long before the Stortinget gave it the signal. As long as changes in the level of penalties do not take place through legislation, which thus only works in the future, the development of the level of penalties through purely judicial development will have to take longer. That's why I think the development of the penalty level for killing is an example of how the legislator's signals work. But it goes gradually, not least because it is the Supreme Court that primarily forms the case law, and there the case comes at least quite a long time after the Storting has given its signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1525	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘The evaluation of cash support shows that in a number of workplaces it is difficult for young children’s fathers to be accepted for the prioritisation of time and care for their own children. Different mechanisms in the workplace help to prioritise work rather than care for your own children. What will the Council of State do to make it easier for toddlers to give priority to time to care for their own children?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1534	The representative Arne Lyngstad refers to the evaluation of the cash support. I assume he refers to the report ‘Various Practices — Different Consequences’ – an evaluation of the impact of cash support on equality in work and family life developed by Britain Bungum, Berit Brandth and Elin Kvande. One of the reasons why the Workers' Party opposed the introduction of the cash support scheme was that the scheme had no gender equality profile. Although cash support is initially a gender-neutral scheme, as shown by the evaluation, gender is of great importance because practices in relation to parental behaviour are also governed by employment and gender income differences. The evaluation has shown that the mothers of young children work a little less as a result of the cash support, while the mothers of young children work as much as before. Reduced working time is a female phenomenon. This means that cash support is involved in sealing traditional gender roles and sedentating progress towards equality between parents. For me, equality is about women having to gain more power and influence, and men having to provide more care. These things are closely related. Gender equality is not achieved by good intentions and attitudes alone, but by using instruments that turn social development in the desired direction. Political disagreement is rarely based on objectives, but on which instruments one is willing to use to achieve the objective. The starting point of the Labour Party is that family policy reforms should also provide an equal opportunities gain. Both the paid maternity leave with its own family allowance, the independent entitlement to birth benefit for fathers, the right to one year unpaid leave for each of the parents, the leave rights for each of the parents in the case of children's sickness, kindergartens and the school leave scheme are important means of enabling both parents to share care tasks while maintaining a link with the working life. Although we have a large number of schemes to combine working life and family life, there is still a need for changes in attitudes both at the workplace and at the workplace. Here, not only the government has a responsibility, but also the social partners, who have actually become more aware of this issue in recent years. As far as reforms are concerned, the spring quota has proved to be the most important instrument. Before the scheme was introduced, it was only about 4 pst. of the fathers who took paid maternity leave. In 1999, statistics show that about 80 pst. of the fathers that come under the scheme, took the mandatory allowance. There's also an increasing number of fathers taking paid leave beyond their father's quota. As a result of the father’s quota, there has been a greater acceptance in working life that father also has a care responsibility in his first year of life. So we see that the cash support gives little extra time to the parents, and we see that it gives very little time to Dad. It must be a cross of thought for the Christian People's Party that they have put in place a scheme costing NOK 3 billion, which leads to a little more time with their parents, and which leads to Dad staying away. Therefore, this arrangement is a step in the wrong direction. Then one might claim that it wasn't as bad as any of us had feared in advance. I am very happy that the idea of equality and the struggle for kindergarten are so strong in Norway, but I am in no way satisfied with a system that slows down development. I wish the representative Arne Lyngstad were not satisfied with that either. Unfortunately, there is no loving coercion with the cash support, and then we are at best sementing the gender roles. Now I have come to realize that one of the Christian People's Party's representatives would like to see women stay home and give birth to boys. It has therefore been a pleasure to see that Kjell Magne Bondevik, rather than supporting this play, wanted to focus on an extension of maternity leave and an extension of the parental quota. This is an action that the Workers' Party is proud to have put in place, and it is very gratifying that the Christian People's Party also sees this as an important contribution to the fight for equality. I want to work for a greater degree of equality between mother and father in terms of maternity leave rights. I think, among other things, the evaluation of the cash support has clearly shown that there are not enough gender neutral arrangements in which families can choose their father as a caregiver. We have to expand what was called "the loving coercion". One of the measures we want to look at is a gradual extension of the social benefit period at birth, combined with a greater proportion of the leave period earmarked for father.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1553	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was quite a lot of the answer that was marked by the fact that the Council of State has ideological glasses, and is not so strongly focused on exactly what is at the heart of my concern, namely how to increase the involvement of small children's fathers in the care of their own children. In the debate on cash support, in particular, two themes have gone back. There is equality, and there is access to labour in the labour market. In the field of employment, it is sympathetic to read in the evaluation report reproduced, inter alia: in the evening post of 15 February this year, that toddlers experience comments and feedback from colleagues when they want to reduce their working time in favour of time with children. So we're dealing with attitudes in the world of work, and these attitudes also have a gender-based effect on the fact that there is little social acceptance for fathers spending time on young children. I am pleased that the Council of State points to the responsibilities of the social partners here [[President clubs]] Finally...
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1564	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1567	I understand that the representative Lyngstad doesn't like that we put on the reality glasses – if someone calls the ideological glasses or other things, he gets to be subordinate. My point of pointing out the actual impact of the evaluation is that there must be a connection between what we make of political decisions and decisions here in the house, and some other things and reforms that we want to introduce into our society. And then there's no doubt that if we want our fathers to take more care of their children and participate in an equivalent way, we also need to organise schemes that we're sure to help us achieve that goal. And it's a fact that the evaluation, and not my ideological glasses, just shows that this is not the case with the cash support system. With regard to the specific issue, it is important that employers today see the value of facilitating that fathers can take more care of their children. I also think that the employers of the future have to admit that it is no longer that when we e.g. has sick children, is the mother to be at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1574	I share the Council of State's commitment and, of course, want the fathers to take a greater share of care. In fact, I think we agree that we need to extend the maternity leave, primarily as a priority to men. My question to the Council of State is: Does she agree that an extension of maternity leave should give priority to men and thus benefit them? Finally, it is not enough to extend the maternity leave only in the case of rights; men must also have their own rights in the case of the parental quota itself. At the last law review before the summer last year, the Government chose not to grant men their own rights. I think it's important to give men their own rights to increase fathers' involvement in their own children.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1583	I can answer a very clear yes to the first question raised by the representative Lyngstad. That's exactly where we agree. To the last question, I just want to make the Christian People's Party aware of the fact that they were in government for two and a half years and had very good opportunities to present reforms that were also better for the young children's fathers. This is, as I said, something that is determined by the annual budgets, and of course this government must also have the opportunity to come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1600	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1606	I would like to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘The evaluation of the CRL subject has shown that there is a need for extensive training of teachers. This is independent of other organisational and/or content changes. It is important that different environments take responsibility and receive support for courses. In order to create acceptance and better understanding of the subject, it is important that minority communities and other organisations are given the opportunity to facilitate the provision of continuing training. Will the State Council use different organisations in the field of continuing training?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1615	The Storting has previously asked for an evaluation of the subject of Christian knowledge with religious and life views. In October 2000, two evaluation reports on the CRL subject focused on issues related to: how training in the subject has been carried out, how the exemption rules for the subject have been practised, the conditions under which parents have been given to enforce the parental right in the subject; I want to send a message to the Storing during the spring of 2001 where these points will be in focus. The evaluation reports also address other issues, including: the question of continuing training of teachers in the CRL field, and it is recommended that more emphasis be placed on improving the level of competence in the subject. In line with other subjects, there is a need for continuing training and enhancing the competence of teachers and school leaders in the CRL field, and this issue will also be addressed in the Single European Act. In this respect, I would like to mention that the main responsibility for the follow-up training of teachers and school managers lies with the municipality. In addition, own State resources for continuing training are provided to stimulate local efforts. Since the introduction of the subject in 1997, the CRL subject has been a priority in continuing training. It is also a specific priority in 2001. Universities and higher education institutions shall provide and organise the provision of basic, continuing and continuing education in their fields of competence. As part of the introduction of L97, a follow-up training plan was developed in the CRL field for the period 1997-2000. On the basis of this plan, a network was established between the academic environments of universities and colleges to develop and implement training provision for teachers. The professional network has developed a follow-up plan for continuing training which will provide a basis for cooperation between those who can offer continuing training and those who want to offer it. The representative Reikvam asks whether different organisations will be used in the field of continuing training. As I said, the municipalities have the primary responsibility for ensuring that the college of teachers at schools has the necessary skills, and universities and colleges are responsible for giving and organising the offer. If different organisations are to participate in this continuing training work, it will mainly be the result of the appropriateness of municipalities or universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1638	I thank you for your answer. We get a big message and we're going to deal with the entire subject, both what has to do with the right of exemption, and what is going on in the organisation of the content, etc. – the structure, progress in the subject and where we are going to put the different topics. It becomes a matter of its own, and it becomes an important matter. Independently, these reports have also shown that there is a need for further training, and there is a need to launch extensive work to enhance the competence of teachers. It's clearly done, and I'm glad. But when we're going to bet on continuing education in this subject, I think it's important that we have a practical approach to it and not just a purely academic approach. In this respect, I am concerned that someone uses the expertise that exists within different organisations, minority organisations, etc., because we know that there are minority students who have the biggest problems with the subject. My question is: will the Council of State take an initiative to make use of the type of organisation, involve that competence, the actual approach that they have the opportunity to take?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1654	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Rikvam, that we must have a practical approach to the subject. I think very many of the problems that have been raised in the debate on the KRL subject are due to a bit of rigid practice and a little lack of adaptability in individual cases. And I think that just by getting a more flexible and wise practice of the subject, a lot of the problems can be solved. One of the things to do then is to look at local conditions, look at the composition of the class, of the school, what minority groups are in the environment, and use the expertise that exists locally. But, as I said, the municipalities are responsible for building that competence among the teachers. I also think that must be where the type of initiative is taken, in cooperation with the universities and universities responsible for continuing training, precisely because you need to have a practical and local approach to those issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1661	I think it's good that networks are established between different educational institutions, colleges and universities, with a view to obtaining good follow-up training. And that work is obviously in progress. I also agree that it is the municipalities that own and run the schools, which have the primary responsibility for continuing training. But here we're in an area where there's a lot of government money inside. As the Council of State pointed out in its first reply, this is a priority in terms of state resources. What's important to me is that these state funds are deployed in such a way that we get a practical approach to this subject, that the various organisations that have knowledge, who are experienced, who are able to build trust and thus also disseminate competence, are put into practice in a proper and sensible way in relation to continuing training in this subject. So I end with a call to the Council of State that he uses the skills that exist within the various organisations when it comes to continuing training in this subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1670	It's going to happen, as the representative Rikvam says here, a very big activity also with state resources. Among other things, we have made a competence development plan also for the subject of Christianism with religious and life views education with a variety of courses and offers, based on going to a university or university and receiving a course there, or being in the school situation and getting it through distance learning, ICT-based learning – using local competence. I do not know in detail all the teachers and teachers' powers and the environment of competence on which the various courses are based. But I think it is a very sensible proposal to use people from different minority religions, and in particular from the Norwegian Church, if it is appropriate, to build the necessary skills. The first teachers who have been trained after the new CRL subject came to the Norwegian school have not yet come out, so there is a need for extensive further training. We have to keep doing that. Gradually, we will also receive teachers who are trained for the CRL in their regular teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1683	This question, from the representative Ursula Evje to the Minister of Church, Education and Research, will be raised by André Kukkestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1686	‘The Council of State has resigned and claimed that the study loan must be paid in four volumes and not, as at present, in two. Obviously, this must be done because the Council of State does not believe that the students are able to manage their own private economy. This is a form of pediatricity that can hardly be justified by a desire for responsible higher education citizens. Does the State Council have such a desire for detailed management that it considers it appropriate to increase the administrative costs of payment and currency compensation calculation further?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1693	I am glad that I get this opportunity to say that I have not claimed that the student loan must be paid in four volumes. What I have said is that if we get to the goal of the Workers' Party, namely a real increase in the cost standard for the students, an improvement in the student's living conditions, we should perhaps also discuss whether the study loan should be paid out in several semesters. The students are in a very special situation. They have a much lower standard of living than normal employees, and they are also in the situation that they receive their «wages» paid twice a year. There are no other employees I know – perhaps there are some exceptions – who have the kind of pay scheme. Most of us actually get paid every month. We have no concrete proposals on the bet in relation to the kind of changes that we intend to promote for Stortinget. We're going to have a big major report on higher education this March. Study funding will also be important, but this kind of change will in any case only be relevant if we have first got a proper increase in student funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1702	I understood that the Council of State thought that some of the problem with two payments this year was distributing the money in addition to the vacations, and then it becomes a little strange that it would be paid more often if you got more money to travel with. Does the Council of State find it more difficult to manage a higher sum of funds than a lower sum?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1707	If the representative asks me if I find it difficult to manage a larger sum, I have to say that even with monthly payments I sometimes experience that the monthly payment does not necessarily extend until the next payday. Since I became the Council of State, that situation has improved, I'm going to admit it. But I think that's something that many people experience. I also think it is a part of the experience – I can say in relation to my own study life – that getting an amount paid at the beginning of the academic year and then having money until December or June, sometimes can be a planning problem. I am concerned that we will return to the full-time student, that students will work less part-time and more with their studies. First of all, we need to improve student funding in general, but it may well be that if we get such improvement in the future, we should also assess whether we should make students more equal to ordinary employees by getting their «wages» paid in several semesters. It can hardly be considered as any diphtheria. I want the students, on the contrary, to be as possible like the rest of us, and not be another type of human being, neither in terms of living standards nor in terms of organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1714	I have noticed that the Government did not make any proposal to increase the cost framework significantly, so in that context it may be interesting that the Council of State is now thinking about the organisation of something that he has not yet proposed. But all the time that much of the argument behind goes on the question of planning and paying, does that also mean that the Council of State will think about the question of futures for repayment, and possibly also about the question of fees, any reminder fees, which it would hardly be lawful for private financial institutions to collect?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1719	First of all, I think I'm going to be very good at a competition with the Progress Party about who has been the best in loan and study finance. It is not that long since the Progress Party had actually programmed that all state banks, including the State Loan Fund for Education, would be liquidated. Now it has been fixed in the program, but I think that in that competition the Labour Party is very good. As regards the question of repayment, it is of course fully possible for ex-students to pay monthly instalments and interest more often back to the Loan Fund, so that matter would be resolved if there was a question. In the case of fees, there is one case that is dealt with in connection with each year’s budget – we did it last November/December last year – where, if they so wish, the Progress Party can make proposals when the State budget is presented in October.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1731	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘The loan box informs in letter of 14 February 2001 that the regulation on the partial coverage of school fees for students in foreign and/or international secondary schools falls away from the autumn of 2001. The loss affects several hundred students, and may make it difficult for several of the schools concerned to continue their activities. Are these the intended consequences of the Government's draft budget?'
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1740	In this context, it is only to refer to the treatment of the State budget by the Grand Duchy for 2001, where the Government’s proposal to abolish the partial coverage of school money for students in foreign and/or international secondary schools was followed and was given a majority in the Grand Duchy. Under the rules governing the scheme, government grants shall not be granted to pupils in schools receiving a grant under the Private School Act. That restriction applies to State grants in general. Examples of the type of schools that receive state subsidies are Red Cross Nordic United World College and students in general economic and administrative subjects at e.g. Skagerak International School.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1745	I thank you for the answer, although there was no answer to the question. What I asked about was whether there were intended consequences of the government's budget proposal that these schools should preferably be closed down, perhaps that the students who have received funding so far amounting to NOK 40,000 per year. years or a little more, for the future, school needs to be fully funded by itself. In this case, for families with not too strong an economy, this will mean a rather drastic extra burden, and this will affect students who are in the middle of a one-year course of study, and who will receive an increase in school money of over NOK 40,000 from this one year to the next. I repeat the question: is this an intentional effect of the Government's budget proposal, or is it an accident at work?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1754	No, there's no work accident. I think we're going to assume that when the Storting agrees to such an arrangement, the Storting knows what you're doing. It was a budget line that was cut. Of course, it has consequences when budget lines are cut, and this was one of the consequences. Of course, it's the way for any government council to have preferred to have just added to its entire budget, but that's not what reality is. When you're going to make a government budget, you have to get plus and minus to jump. This is one of the posts that was cut, and of course it also has consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1759	I have to repeat that I have asked questions about what was the intended effect of the Government's budget proposal, not what the Storting decided. What is the political problem in this matter is that the budget agreement before Christmas was concluded on premises that were completely different for the government party and for the centre parties. It has emerged that the central parties understood the budgetary conciliation in such a way that the restoration of this budget line covered both the complementary teaching of Norwegian students at foreign schools and the partial coverage of school money. That means, as far as I can understand, that there's really no large number of people who wanted to go in to cut this system. But my question was not what the bulk of the population meant. My question was about what the Government has meant by its draft budget, and I would like to have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1772	If Inge Wohnung wants an answer to that, he might want to read the record from the previous answers. It would be completely unnecessary to have to repeat your answer again and again. Of course, when you cut a government budget, it has consequences. There's someone who gets less money from cutting it. I see that the Right has a proposal of 17 billion kroner in tax bills and associated cuts on it. It also has consequences for them, whether it's unhelp, whether it's sickness money or what it's about. It's like making a government budget. If the winding-up decision is to be reversed, it has a cost of 5 million. kr. Of course, it's up to the bulk of the population the next time you deal with a budget to put that money back in, if there's another majority. I think we'll just notice that Inge Wage disagrees with this. What the other budget partners have meant when you were in a cut in that post, we're going to leave to them to think different things about later. But it was quite clear that the reversal that was made of cut was specific to cover Norwegian training for Norwegian students abroad. This issue was not raised by the large majority that made the 2001 budget, nor was it changed in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1779	Then there's case no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1793	In recent years, there has been a lot of concern about the situation in the Directorate for Foreign Affairs, not least in time after this interpellation was made. The criticism has mainly been of financial management and internal problems in the department that have had economic consequences. This has also led the Council of State to announce a review of the UDI and its situation. Here you need one among others. look at the procedures for financial management, the possibility of streamlining the management process and assessing the resource needs of the Directorate. That's good, but my commitment is also linked to other relationships, such as how the individual person is met by the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, a long time for case management, missing information and availability, etc. This is primarily the Government's responsibility, but I would like to invite the Council of State to a dialogue with the Storting about these matters. Some of the first that many foreigners meet when they come to Norway is UDI. Either a visa, a work permit or an asylum application is the UDI of the body responsible for handling the case. This first meeting is therefore very important. It is crucial that people in such a situation are met with an open mind, respect and trust. Some have fled from a very difficult life situation to seek shelter. It is therefore very important that asylum seekers do not meet a system here with us that gives associations to the system from which they have fled. Meeting people in a proper way is therefore one of several important commitments to lay the foundation for an open case management and for later integration into the Norwegian community. Unfortunately, it turns out that many people in contact with the Directorate for Foreign Affairs have negative experiences. This applies not only to foreigners, but also to Norwegians with a spouse or family in another country and to people engaged in foreign affairs. They may be their lawyers or voluntary organisations. On behalf of the UDI, the Market and Media Institute, MMI, has carried out a user survey of asylum seekers, family reunification and citizenship as well as lawyers working on such matters. No one who has followed in the debate on the UDI will be surprised at the conclusions. In summary, it is difficult to access the UDI, one has little satisfying information routines and a long time to deal with it. I'm going to take these relationships successively. First access: It is often very difficult to get in touch with the case handlers in the UDI. The information is in many cases very limited, and many are left with a sense of putting their heads in a bureaucratic wall. The uncertainty that this creates is very problematic for many to live with, and it's without regard to whether or not a person gets a break in Norway. The UDI has gradually got a reputation for being an establishment that wants to get acquainted with. We – the Council of State and I – can avoid it, but many have no choice. For us who are committed to establishing a more humane asylum and refugee policy, this is very alarming. The long process management time in the UDI has gradually become widely known. For the sake of justice, it must be said that the establishment has faced a formidable challenge with the increase in the number of refugees and asylum seekers in recent years. This is where the situation in the Balkans has also been recorded. Nevertheless, it is difficult for many people to understand how the waiting time can be so long, both for visa applications, for curative family reunions and for other curative foreign affairs. Such matters may take over a year! It must be possible to find a system where curative things are decided for a reasonable amount of time. And it can't be right that e.g. two who are happy in each other, cannot get married for years because UDI does not have the capacity to handle their application. For a while, the Evening Post wrote about Kawso Dibba from the Gambia, who has been bidding in Norway for 14 years. Family reunification with the son of 15 months was to be pure routine in such a matter. In August 2000, UDI learned that good people had malaria. For a while he died. Now the UDI has said they're sorry about this, and that's good. But we can't risk that happening again. We can't have a handle that goes on life loose! Exercise of awareness is also essential in the handling of foreign affairs. Of course, there will always be different assessments here. Nevertheless, it is striking that the information from official sources used by the UDI is contrary to the information provided by voluntary and humanitarian organisations and others with a good knowledge of the situation in the home country. UDI seemed not to take this into account. Of course, there will always be some conflicting information in individual cases, and it is not always true that the voluntary network is right in its assessments. I've also learned that. But it can't be that UDI is always right. Here I lack a more humble attitude for those who have land and cultural competence outside the UDI's own system. UDI should listen to them more. There are also examples of individual asylum seekers being thrown into prison and tortured after return from Norway, despite the fact that the opposite is true. Last February 21st, we were able to read about a 26-year-old Lebanon asylum seeker. He was suspected of having cooperated with the Israel-friendly army of SLA. He was sent home again and is now trackless away. There are other examples. In 1998, the central government adopted a softening of the asylum criteria. Persecution by non-national governments should provide a basis for asylum. In the same way, it would include: emphasis is placed on religious persecution and persecution on the basis of sex and sexual orientation. Under the Bondevik government, it was also given guidelines that women living in a mistreatment relationship would be granted asylum in Norway even if they had not bid here for three years. In the final analysis, we have several examples that might indicate that this softer line is not being followed up. Among other things, the newspaper has seen the search light on this in several presentations. Since they can gain experience, as they say, no woman has yet been granted asylum on the basis of the gender criterion, and only one asylum application has been granted because of the danger of religious persecution, write a paper. Now I see from the answer the Council of State gave the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa last Wednesday, that there are several who have received asylum. But anyway, the individual issues mentioned in the media seem quite unimaginable. Norway has been criticised by the UNHCR several times for our strict asylum practices. We tried to fix this. Still, the rate of asylum is very low. Norway granted 3 p.m. in 1999. of all asylum applications – a total of 181 persons. In Denmark, the rate of asylum granted was 17. This tells of a special strict exercise of discretion with regard to the granting of political asylum. Here, Norway is bound by international conventions. Such examples may indicate that we may not always meet the requirements of the Refugee Convention. All of this is a serious situation that you have to examine. The overall situation in the UDI is not satisfactory, and it has clearly evolved over time. The situation has become so serious that there is a basis for a review and review of the establishment. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to give tribute to the Council of State for the initiatives it has already taken towards UDI in the last few weeks. As far as I can evaluate what's being done, there's a real commitment to correct the ratio. Precautionary measures to facilitate family reunification, residence and working conditions and a warning review of foreign law are important in order to improve the situation. The government of Bondevik was also concerned about this and worked for improvements, including: through comprehensive efficiency measures. The Christian People's Party wants to support what the Council of State has seen going on. I am concerned, in addition to what has already been done, with some other issues in this context: firstly, that they change the procedures for dealing with matters more quickly through the system, not only should new matters be involved, but also those that have already been in the queue for too long, and secondly that the review and examination of UDI must also cover how the team meets its clients, and how they deal with more discretionary matters in the case, relate to the emphasis on humane handling and strong humane concerns in assessing the authorisation of asylum. I hope the Council of State will be willing to include these as well in the review to be carried out. The question I am asking myself is whether the Council of State is doing enough or going far enough in the investigation work. A review is not good enough, here it must be independently investigated, preferably with the participation of different organisations and political parties. If the investigation shows that the situation is as serious as all media reviews and reports from individuals and organisations are, it will require extensive and radical action. In that case, the Council of State will have the full support of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1825	Let me first say that in the light of the lengthy process that is now unfortunately in the Directorate for Foreign Affairs, and the recent history of media postings, I understand that questions are being asked about UDI's activities. I'm glad that the representative of Svarstad Haugland says she supports the initiatives that have already been taken, and the job that is going on, because these are also matters that naturally take me on. I am prepared to use the means necessary to find solutions in terms of both the long procedure period and in some contexts of poor service and poor availability. This is also the background to my decision to review the UDI where one should look at both the procedures for financial management in the Directorate and the possibilities to streamline the process. An important part of the study will also be to assess the resource needs of the Directorate, providing the legislation we have today. But with the leftovers that the directorate has, I'm afraid I can't suggest any very fast solutions. But it's working on bombs to get something done about the situation. In my presentation to the Municipal Committee on 13 February this year on the same topic, I pointed out the challenges I believe the Directorate is facing. Firstly, there are very large fluctuations in the number of asylum seekers coming to the country. Only in the last three years has there been a five-fold increase in the number of asylum applications compared to the previous three years. The crew in the same period increased by about 50 pst. This imbalance is unlikely to be resolved by improvements in efficiency alone. We have a budgetary system that requires a certain long-termity and predictability of the institutions' resource needs. The oscillations in the foreign field are difficult to capture within this system. This results in residues and a system that is less flexible. State consultants have also pointed this out in their review of the UDI in 1999. That said, it appears that the Directorate has also underestimated its needs for resources in connection with the takeover of asylum interviews on 1 July 2000. Similarly, the need for training for new staff has proved to be greater than originally planned. The latter has taken resources from the short-term proceedings. In parallel with the task of getting a review of the UDI, I will work together with the directorate to get the work done to improve the service to the audience. This is an area that occupies me strongly, and I will come back to these questions when the review of the UDI is completed. UDI manages a law with major implications for both individuals and society. I want an administration that is flexible, that ensures the legal certainty of the individual, and that is in accordance with Norwegian law. This means that the Directorate must also check the data in each individual application. By means of control, we're going to try to prevent bigamy and coercion. In the case of family reunification of children, with a parent abroad, the parental right must be established and agreements concluded between parents must be valid. Checks shall also prevent access to persons who are not wanted in the kingdom. At the same time, applications shall be processed as soon as possible. This means that the directorate must constantly balance conflicting interests, where it is not always as easy to decide what is so-called curative matters. But I'm very concerned, like the representative of Svarstad Haugland, that we must have an administration that takes decisions within a reasonable time, and that informs and acts in a way that deserves public confidence. Then, of course, it's important how each person is met by UDI. As the interpellant also points out, UDI’s financial management has been criticised. I'm very serious about that. This is an area to focus on when reviewing the directorate. Here, too, the National Auditorate is doing a job. They will follow up the directorate separately, and there is currently a so-called administrative audit which, after I have been informed, will be available in 2002. In addition, there is a review of some items in the UDI budget. Overall, I believe that this will provide a good basis for further assessing the management of the allocated funds by the directorate. A significant amount is allocated to the refugee work in this country. For me, it is absolutely essential that trust is ensured that these funds are used and managed in the best possible way and, of course, in accordance with the rules and instructions that apply to central government at all times. Interpellant has also raised questions about the use of interpreters. In 2000, Norway received asylum seekers from 93 countries with almost the same number of languages. It goes without saying that it may sometimes be difficult to obtain well-qualified interpreters in all languages. Sometimes, therefore, interpreters from our neighbouring country need to be brought in. UDI has subsequently become aware that some interpreters have been in contact with the embassies of the home country. Where this is known, the interpreter will of course not be used. This is according to the information I have received, fortunately no major problem, but it has occurred in relation to some nations. So to UDI's use of information from different sources. As part of the proceedings, the UDI collects information on the political and human rights situation in many countries and from many different sources. If new information comes to light during the processing of an individual case that may affect the outcome, it will of course be given weight. Information from humanitarian organisations such as: The Red Cross, the Church's Emergency Aid and Amnesty International are important in this context. In addition, information comes from more official sources such as the foreign stations and the UNHCR. In addition, staff in the foreign administration make delegation trips to areas where further information is needed. The general knowledge acquired from the different sources must then be related to the information provided by the applicants in their explanations or applications. Occasionally, individual information needs to be examined by means of our foreign stations and by the extra-territorial attachés stationed in a number of countries. For outsiders, it may sometimes seem that the UDI does not take enough into account information from some sources. However, relevant information shall be considered before a decision is taken on the cases. Something else will provide a basis for complaint and will not be in the directorate's interest either. I would like to point out the measures I have so far taken to address the long-term problems that the Foreign Administration has addressed: As I have informed you, a review of the UDI will be carried out with a focus on financial management and case flow. It is also necessary to assess whether the resources of administrations are proportionate to the tasks assigned to them. Together with the directorate, I will initiate actions to improve the service to the audience. The Ministry is also in the process of adjusting current legislation to shorten the length of proceedings, in particular in relation to work permits and visas. I am now in the process of setting up a legal committee to review the Foreign Affairs Act. I would also like to point out that I have already informed the municipal committee that I will come back with a new statement when the review of the directorate is available at the end of the summer, or early in the autumn. Let me look at the tap and comment on some of the things that the representative mentioned in his post. First of all, on the look-up in the world yesterday: the new guidelines that we are now drawing up for how quickly matters should be dealt with and the embellishments in this regard, will of course not only concern new issues. That's the one. With regard to the issue of women and the decorations made in relation to guidelines for gender-based persecution, it is such that the guidelines adopted by the Bondevik government, as the representative points out, are followed. But I am also extremely concerned about the women's perspective. That's why I've said that when we get a review of the whole alien law, which was created in a completely different time, one of the things you have to look very carefully at, exactly the woman's perspective, to see how it works in practice. But it's like the guidelines that were put in place by the Bondevik government are being followed. We need to have a strong focus on it, and of course we're going to follow it very closely also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1871	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am happy for all the positive feedback given in the article. I'm also pleased with the last statement in relation to the woman's perspective, because I think some of these things that I know only through the media have been very alarming. I know that the Council of State shouldn't interfere with individual matters, but it's hard to sit outside and let be too. One can at least get information and possibly express what one thinks about different things. What I want to challenge the Council of States a little bit more closely is that I have a sense of the review that will take place, more about financial management and resource availability. I'm busy with this, but I'm also so busy with the culture of UDI and the way UDI meets the audience, as I said in my article. And I feel that the review and also the other measures that the Council of State calls for, are not good enough in relation to the innumerable copies that I believe many in this house can come with, not to talk about the ones we can hear if we go outside. And I have to honestly admit that sometimes I feel sorry for some of the people who work in the UDI, because it has been massively critical of them, and it's probably not everyone who acts like in the stories we hear, but they're pretty rough, and what happens is bad enough. So I feel like we have to clean up and clean up a part of that culture, and so I want to stress this a little bit more with the review I'm asking for, a more independent review. I also want to challenge the politicians from the other parties here in the hall, when they hope to have posts afterwards, if they support such a thought, because I think it's necessary for the confidence of the UDI to be built up in general by people. So I noticed the state council's comments on resource access, and that one might not have had a complete overview of the resources you needed. I would like to ask the Council of State a little question at the bottom of my article. UDI hired PR consultants to improve their image compared to being a ‘small bureaucratic and slow institution’, as it said in the Evening Post. Renting a consulting firm to improve an image is at least costing money, and I ask the council if it thinks it's the right use of money when they say that they actually have too few resources and resources to do the job they're supposed to do. I think that a much better use of resources to fix this would be to put the search light simply on human treatment in the different ways that they meet human beings, not that they have a slow and bureaucratic image. It will be very important to highlight what a public relations agency might come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1880	It is said that people who make contact with or call the UDI should be met in a polite and proper way. It may be that there are individual pisods and single examples in the UDI – as unfortunately in some other workplaces too – that it does not work well enough, and it should be further worked on. But in a debate where there's been as much excitement as this, I'd warn you that one cuts everyone over one comb – and I don't understand that the representative Svarstad Haugland does it – because the many employees in the UDI do a very good job, work a lot, some of them almost healthily, are under a very strong pressure from individuals, organisations, the media, us politicians, etc. So I want it to be like a back carpet. But it's of course that people should be met with respect and trust, it should be accessible, and it should be possible to reach out and get a polite and real answer to that question. Now the situation is it, because you've come up with these things in relation to things that have been lying there for a long time, that every day there are between 2,500 and 3,000 telephones to the UDI. And it goes without saying that many of these then are questions about where the case is, there are reminders, etc., which again take time from those who should really sit and deal with matters. So it's kind of going to be an evil circle, which we have to try to get out of. I want to continue working with the UDI in doing what you can to improve what is about accessibility and service to the audience, because it is not good enough in every context. But when it's not taken up directly in the review I've announced, as a main focus there, it's because I think, first of all, that it's urgent to do something with this a little bit faster, and second, there's some measures that I think can be taken that you don't really need your own review to get answers to. So I think there's no need for a self-examination of the UDI. I mean the review that is announced and that we are now working on – and many people have reported – that would like to carry out a review of the UDI where we look at both financial management, processing time, whether the resources are proportionate to the need – will be sufficient. At the same time, a parallel work needs to be done on the things that the representative Svarstad Haugland was concerned about in terms of improving the availability and how people are met in the UDI. And then there is a service project in the foreign administration that shows that UDI does not have a good enough level of service, and I want to follow it up in cooperation with them. But I do not think there is a need for further scrutiny beyond the review that is now to be carried out in order to do something about what I think we actually agree on, that some measures should be taken beyond what has already been announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1887	Let me first say that I am satisfied that from 1 January this year, a person has been given a uniform political and administrative responsibility for the foreign administration; at least that gives him a better chance of steering. So I would like to start by saying that I am satisfied with the way in which the Council of State has addressed a good part of the problems in the UDI, which is not of a new date, but which has clearly strengthened itself in recent times. And I just want to establish that it doesn't work well enough in UDI today. It's too long to deal with, it seems like everything's going on in the same pile, regardless of whether it's simple or difficult. Accessibility needs to be improved for the public, and one should not hide from the Council of State now mentioned in its last statement here, that the situation of course puts a great deal of pressure on employees who do a good job in relation to the jobs they have. But I want to establish the most important perspective, and that is that the UDI manages an important area, a crucial area for the situation and future of individuals. And UDI and our foreign administration are going to meet individuals with a quick treatment in line with law and regulation, and I see that this is often a mix in managing today's legislation and views on what law and regulation really should be. I initially said that I was satisfied with the way in which the Council of State has addressed some of the problems, and of course it is obvious that improvements here cannot necessarily happen overnight. Governments have announced a broad review of the legislation and a simplification and simplification of the legislation. It was also notified to the Municipal Committee when it was informed of the situation in the UDI on 13 February. I believe that the grips that have been launched will improve the situation – yes, I assume that that will be the case. A review of the UDI will now be carried out. I consider this far on the way as an answer to the interpellant's concerns, and see such review as a positive and satisfactory solution. Then we will await feedback on the outcome of the review and initiatives that require the participation of Storting. For there are results that can strengthen confidence in the foreign administration, not how this review takes place. This must primarily result in a faster clarification and better follow-up for individual individuals dependent on UDI decisions and those of the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1898	I would like to join the representative that Bjørnstad just said. I would like to stress that an important part when people meet the UDI is that you get the feeling that the matter that they represent, you're really concerned about -- that you're not just one of 20,000 or how many there might be. It is important to distinguish between individual requests to the UDI, so that you get into sub-groups, and that normal and simple visa applications should not be allowed to wait because there are many other heavy and difficult issues ahead of you. It creates difficult and unsustainable situations. In addition, in relation to the government's response to the use of sources, given the conditions from which they come and the conditions to which they are returned in the event of rejection, I would like to stress that in many respects, as this was under the Ministry of Justice, I have tried to get behind the external situation, because the answers have always been the same, as the Council of State told us. You have your partners, and the department has its own and follows up on them. Nevertheless, we get clear feedback from organisations and individuals living in countries to which people are sent back, telling us that this person, this family father, for example, who has been sent back to the country in question, he is arrested and tortured — perhaps on the basis of having left the Muslim faith, converted to Christianity or with other reasons. The answer is that he is arrested for political activity and that he has failed his own country. I would like you not only to finish the case when the case was over in the UDI, but to be able to follow much more closely what happens when a person is sent back. And is it obviously based on what happens, that his/her spouse and children also need protection in Norway, will these be able to do so? I think that is a problem area that must also be included when examining the UDI.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1907	Unfortunately, UDI's tenacity is a sad example of inefficient bureaucracy, it is arrogantly direct oriental and low level of service and, in addition, a lack of financial management. It is positive that the Council of State is taking the initiative to review the UDI, but I believe that the Council of State is signaling a low level of ambition both in terms of speed and action. If we do not get the UDI to function properly soon and have the foreign legislation drastically simplified, we are at risk of hitting Norway's future. We need to make Norway an attractive country to work in for people from other countries. We do not do that when the UDI process system fails. It is the case that a football or basketball player would like to receive a work permit within a couple of weeks, while a normal jobseeker would have to wait 10-15 months. In Tromsø, an Iranian was waiting for a ten-month response on a work permit. When the newspaper Nordlys in Tromsø called UDI, they resolved the matter there and then. In this way, the UDI confirms that there is an arbitrary process of legal certainty for individuals. Even I know a matter where a Sudanese man who is married to Norwegian has been waiting for travel documents for one year, despite the fact that UDI informed me that it was two to three months' time. Now UDI says 15 months. There's evidence that you don't have an overview. The newspaper of 3 September last year concluded that whites receive faster procedures than dark skins, because while Americans and Europeans receive answers to applications after four to five months, Africans and Asians have to wait over one year. In other words, UDI has constipation. Procedural time increases despite increased resources. This is probably due to organisational problems, to complex and detailed procedures, and to the fact that the bulk of the population has been carrying out new tasks on the UDI. There is too much emphasis on control over effectiveness. There is a need for stronger lynching than the Council of State clearly suggests, and in the Right we believe that both legislation and legislation are over-molded for innovation adapted to a multicultural Norway that also needs to make itself more attractive to foreign skilled workers in order to meet our own labour needs. More than a year ago, the State Consultant submitted ten proposals for reorganisations and they were only partially implemented. The right has put forward proposals for drastically simplified labour immigration rules, for it is no less than shame to Norway that we have come into the situation that the UDI has brought us into. And action is required to streamline the UDI, so that they can do the tasks in a much better way than they do today. A lot of people are waiting anxiously for what the Council of State is warning. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has assessed the need for a review of the UDI, but has until now put it at risk to see how the Council of State should deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1925	When the number of applications to be processed in the UDI increases, the challenges that we also need to find solutions to. In 1999, then Minister for Regional and Municipal Affairs Odd Roger Enoxsen took the initiative to review the situation. State Consultant's report came in January 2000. Also, as I know, UDI has reviewed the organisation and also proposed measures. As I know, some of these measures have been implemented or are in the process of being implemented. It is positive, but it is clear that the measures taken are not good enough or sufficient. We can tell that when we still get examples of untimely lengthy case-handling times in individual cases. It is not good enough when we in the media get headlines like ‘Has been waiting for the UDI for a year and a half’, or ‘15 months to wait’. There are individual layers behind all the individual cases, and it is inhuman to have to live with insecurity for years before the cases are settled. I have understood that the Council of State will have another review of the UDI. It's okay, but the question is, are there any more reviews we need? Perhaps it is scrutiny, on which the representative of the Haugland representative has been involved, that we need, when we are still getting new reviews without leading to the big results? So the question is, what happens in the meantime? Improvements can't wait too long, both in case-handling time and in the way in which a person meets behind the applications. The way in which the management situation is in foreign affairs, it's almost tempting to use the word embarrassingly. I think there must be new ways of working. Can it be e.g. Do you want to do more to clear and sort matters? Very many things are curative when they are first taken up, e.g. Reunification cases. Then there is reason to ask the question whether it might be appropriate to delegate more responsibility to e.g. in urgent cases. Our ambassadors. It is also important that the Ministry is in the forefront of situations that may arise. Such a situation applies to the Kosovar Albanians. Kosovo Albanians have been offered NOK 15 000 if they return home before 1 March. However, very many have not received their applications for suspension in Norway before 1 March. I consider it natural that those who are waiting for an answer to the applications do not leave until the answer comes, even if it is after 1 March. Here it should be considered to keep the repatriation proposal open until the applications are completed. The situation today, including: with the long handling time, is unworthy. Faster decisions in the many foreign affairs matters will be positive for UDI's reputation, and not least positive for the people involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1942	Like the interpellant, SV receives a number of enquiries from people who experience that they are ‘meeting the wall’ in the UDI. We are also upset by issues in the media that describe incomprehensible rejection of visas and heartless refusals to apply for asylum or stay on other grounds. A few days ago, there was a survey of people who, for incomprehensible reasons, are waiting for answers to a request for family reunification in order to have young children at home. Now it is not reasonable to load the UDI for all foreign affairs that upset us. Very often, there are political reasons behind this, i.e. excessive strict immigration legislation. It is therefore positive that legislation should also be reviewed. Unfortunately, it is often the treatment in the UDI that appears to be unreasonable, especially with regard to the length of proceedings. The question of financial management in the UDI is also very alarming. As the Council of State itself has pointed out, it is absolutely essential that people have confidence that the funds being set aside, for example. for the reception of asylum seekers, used correctly. On this basis, it is therefore very positive that the Council of State has notified a full review of the UDI by means of external consultants. A number of more short-term measures have also been announced to reduce the length of the procedure. SV would stress that these short-term measures need to be implemented quickly. There's no reason to wait until after one has had a review of the whole system. SV expects a thorough review of the UDI to lead to measures that can provide solutions to the problems we have seen. I would also like to agree with the representative of Svarstad Haugland who says that one must also look into the culture that obviously prevails in the UDI. I would like to briefly point out some points that SV believes should be considered in the context of the review. Firstly, we believe that a clear distinction should be made between ordinary foreign affairs and asylum and refugee matters. Secondly, we believe that the foreign stations should be able to handle some of the more curative matters, and also that the police could handle curative matters. A more general perspective that needs to be assessed is whether the foreign management currently suffers from an excessive need for control. At times, it may seem absurd that so much resources should be put in place to prevent foreigners from staying in a country that sorely needs more hands at work and more young people in order to avoid a distorted age mix. Finally, I would like to raise a concern about the work to be done in foreign students. In the opinion of the SV, it is unfortunate that these topics are not to be provided with clearer mandates and guidance. In our view, it means a political discharge when the names are to be held and evaluated, for example. what are strong human considerations. This will put the members of the denominators in a very difficult situation, and I would therefore ask the Council of State to consider how the work of the denominators in interpreting the legislation can be made easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1962	UDI has become the system that everyone loves to have and loves to criticize. And it's not easy to live with that, neither for those who work there, nor for those who should be responsible for it. I think we have to take that self-esteem inwards, we who sit in the Storting, that in many ways we have made cross-estimate expectations of this business. The size is sometimes very good at asking for everything to be prioritised — and it usually ends in constipation. At the same time, we have not cleared up the gap between very strong emphasis on legal security requirements and the rapid production of results. Now it's not especially for the UDI, but it's something we often see in Norway. On the one hand, things don't go fast enough, and on the other hand, we get really worried if any of the things that go fast, don't go as we like. I am absolutely convinced that if we are to have faster results through the UDI system, we need to accept more judgement, and we need to accept less formal requirements on aspects of legal certainty. Among other things, you have to consider how many times you should be able to complain about a case. You have to think about all of these assessments, because both of them don't go up. Where the point of intersection is, I'm not going to have an opinion about now, other than that I perceived the Council of State so that, in order to use my words, she would do a system-critical reversal of the system. I think that's the right way to think about it. Because here is not the point to find scapegoats, but the point is to produce good system-oriented solutions that allow those applying for a job in Norway to come here in a good and least bureaucratic way – and the easier we do it to get people to work, the less pressure we will get at the asylum institute, here I think it is a context – and that asylum seekers get the most fair treatment possible. So I think we're going to take inwards, as I've said in a debate here before, that in certain aspects of this for human reasons -- at least I have to say, with my experience -- we haven't generally been good at catching up with the situation that some women end up in. That's what I say from memory, and because in some context I've got my fingers slit, literally. Sometimes I have been tricked, but sometimes I have simply had to admit that I did not understand the landscape. The council has received that greeting from several, including from me here before, but I repeat it, because I think this is very important. In the Bondevik government, we stated that we should give support to people who were persecuted because of gender. I don't think we've been good enough to give it a practical content. Now I'm not going to say anything more about it. I've got a heart attack in the end. It is a matter I know by chance, from Valdres, where you have a reception, and where you have heard the parole of the Council of State that if people commit theft in asylum reception, you must have a quick treatment. This is where the police have acted quickly, but not UDI. And it doesn't create the trust that you need locally, because when the police and officers office is throwing itself around, the UDI also has to throw around when it comes to making sure to have interpreters and questioning. I take it up as a small case, because I know that the Council of State has been busy sorting away from these matters as soon as possible. The summary of the left is: constructive, critical system review and end-of-life in order to improve the performance of the people to whom this administration is to serve.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1977	First, I want to thank you for the commitment to the interpellation debate from both the Council of State and the others who have participated. I think there are many who feel frustration, not least part of them added to the UDI. So I'm probably a little disappointed that the Council of State couldn't say she wanted an investigation. Because I think that through an investigation, those who do a good job could have been cleaned up, and one could get a more effective UDI that met people in a good way – one could get a new start. I sincerely hope that the Council of State will think carefully through it again. Then I would like to comment on what the representative Bjørnstad said, he said that the review from the Council of State largely answered my challenges. Well, it doesn't make a lot of sense, but it doesn't make a lot of sense. I would like to underline that. I also want to develop what some have been about, that is, that a lot of things are in the same pile. When two people are married and live in Norway, they have to wait for years to get jobs, when they're going to live here with us and want to go to work, for example.? When parents, perhaps a Norwegian and a foreign spouse, have a child in another country, does it have to be a year, or more than that, before that child can come to Norway? When someone has a tourist visa in 10 days, do they have to wait so long for the visa that the ticket has actually expired before they receive an answer? We have a lot of cases like this, and what I hope the council can do is send that signal to the UDI that a pile isn't a pile. It has to be sorted, so that those things that take a long time and that have to have a thorough handling – which we all agree on – can be in a pile, while those who are curative can get through even without a journalist from a newspaper calling and asking for the results. Because it's part of the game as it is today, that you get a journalist to focus on exactly your case, maybe she'll take care of it right away, and those who answer you are even polite when you call. I have also noticed – just as a curiosity – that almost all the parties have participated in the debate. There is one party that does not feel this interesting enough when it comes to a high level of involvement with immigration and asylum policies. They haven't been here. It's also noticed in relation to the commitment they're showing in this whole case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e1992	Let me first say that I am pleased with the commitment in the matter, where I feel that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy agrees with us that we need to bring down the procedural period, that we should be sure that people are met in a proper and proper way, that the financial management is as it should be, and that this works as we want it to do. For me, that's the result that counts. And when I start with the review that's announced, it's also because I'm very open to turning all the stones, compared to doing the situation better. Then I think that's the way we should do it, and we put outside to do that job. So I think that the representative of Dørum is quite right in what he said in his post, namely that the Stortinge has also contributed to creating intersecting expectations of UDI, for which the Stortinge must therefore be responsible, because we all have, almost regardless of which party we represent, said that UDI should give priority both to one and the other at once without questioning whether UDI also has the necessary resources to do that job. In addition to this, it is a fact that over the last three years more than 29 000 asylum seekers have come to Norway, while from 1995 to 1997. So it's a dramatic change in terms of UDI's tasks. And then we will probably also have to take a larger debate in another context, on the relationship between legal certainty, time of trial, level of control, etc., because it is clear that it is also related to the overall situation. But let's be clear, I'm not satisfied with the situation that's per. today. Nor is it UDI's employees or management, and I believe that we need to do this constructively in order to find solutions. So I'll answer the answer town of Haugland very briefly about what I didn't get before, about what was brought up here about bunkers. I still think there's a way to think about whether it's possible to sort things out in a slightly different way. But when it comes to what we might perceive as so-called curative things, for example. family reunions, some of them can be curative, but not all. We have also said that there are other things we need to consider. We have to make sure that the children are connected to those with whom they have to be connected, we have said that we will prevent coercion, bigami, etc. It also requires that you check something more. I think, as I said, it's possible to sort something better than what's happening today, but that's not all that seems easy that's as simple, when we talk about curative things. With regard to the question from Svarstad Haugland about the consulting company that UDI has engaged, I remember that they have to pay approx. $100,000 to that consulting firm. This is done from time to time in many organisations, in many agencies, and I think maybe the UDI is such an organisation where there is a need for both some advice and help on how to deal with the media situation. Otherwise, there is a lot of other things I should also have responded to, but for the sake of time I am asked to come back to it on a later occasion, or take it bilaterally after the debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e2009	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-28.ana.ud2078e2018	There is no record.
