ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e52	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for a proposal from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e57	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e62	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and the Kjell Engebretsen shall be deemed unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e65	The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e68	On behalf of myself and Thore Aksel Nistad, I have been delighted to propose to allow several actors on the railway network.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e73	The representative Steinar Bastisen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e77	I am promoting proposals to introduce a year of further education for teachers to stimulate knowledge growth and to combat burnout.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e82	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will propose that the Stortinget examine the supplementary agenda after the ordinary agenda. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 15.00 until the current map has been processed. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. Before we start today's meeting, the President will mention that he noticed that yesterday there were some indications that there might have been a little too much time left over from the Rules of Procedure that all the speeches should go through the President. The President must then say that we have so many new representatives in this Chamber that he feels it is reasonable that the Storting is to a certain extent permissive until we are allowed to enter into the Rules of Procedure. - This for information. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e115	The country has got a new government, and it is fenced out a new course. After following the first day of the debate, I can see that it appears to be a majority in the Grand Duchy of Great Britain for the main political lines drawn up by the Cooperation Government in its declaration. I'm glad. The debate on the census and the declaration by the new government is marked by a new political situation. It's been over ten years since the last time we had a center-right coalition. Both the government parties and the opposition must now adapt to new realities. In an obligatory cooperation, everyone has to give and take. The government's political programme is therefore not pure Christian People's Party policy, not pure Right-wing policy and not pure Left-wing policy. We've all worked hard to reach good and agreed solutions. We did that. We have created a majority in the Storting for a more offensive and forward-looking environmental and climate policy than the one led by the estranged Labour Party government. That's how we take better care of the trustee's responsibilities. We have created a majority for greater tax relief. The freedom of choice for families with children is guaranteed by means of both full child care coverage and cash support. That's how we give greater freedom under responsibility. We have created a wider majority for a development policy based on increased aid and increased market access for developing countries. And we want to return to neglected opportunities to help the weakest people in our own country – not least poor families with children. This is how we strengthen solidarity. We will develop care for the elderly, improve health services and bet on prevention. We've created a majority to give non-governmental organisations better conditions. Public responsibilities combined with voluntary efforts should improve well-being. We have created a new majority for greater non-discrimination between public and private enterprises that will contribute to the provision of important welfare services. This applies, inter alia, to: kindergartens and schools. A more extensive modernisation of the public sector shall take place through well-planned measures and in close cooperation with employees and their organisations. We will recreate the ‘Simplify Norway’ project. This is how we promote transparency, increased non-discrimination and modernisation. We will promote legal certainty and security for life, health and property and fight crime. We will renew Defence and increase preparedness for new societal threats. Vulnerability in relation to IT systems, energy and water supply, threats from organised crime and terrorism require increased awareness and coordination. The government will present a major communication on social security in the light of the Vulnerability Committee's decision-making. To sum up, a new majority has been created on important issues – for the benefit of the environment and the management responsibility, freedom under responsibility, solidarity with disadvantaged, general welfare, modernisation and security. The Government's declaration of accession has high ambitions for political renewal. It is necessary because the world is changing rapidly, technologically, politically and economically. Therefore, the Cooperative Government will actively promote reforms in order to improve the performance of both the Community values and the values of freedom in Norway. We do that not least to ensure the future of our children. Therefore, there will also be a strong focus on education and skills. In school, we will carry out quality reforms with increased emphasis on students’ skills in reading, writing and billing. Education strengthens the individual’s ability to take responsibility for themselves and for others. Our goal is to pursue a stable and long-term policy. It will provide safer foundations for individuals, families and businesses that take responsibility for their future. And it can contribute to better use of resources in the public sector. The government invites broad cooperation in Stortinget on the demanding renewal that is now to be implemented. Some have asked in the debate about the government's relationship with the Progress Party. To that I would say: we fully recognise that the Progress Party is crucial to the formation of the new government. In fact, it is also indirectly apparent from the first sentence of the Government Declaration. But the Cooperation Government is a minority government, and so the Progress Party is not part of its parliamentary basis. That is why we have not seen the issue of general binding agreements either with the Progress Party or with others. But we will not rule out the possibility that there may be any agreement in Stortinget with the Advance Party in some demarcated areas, like the cash support agreement that the central government had with the Right and the Advance Party in the previous majority period. In some cases, there may be opportunities for a majority of other parties – if these parties are open to it. Through the budgets, the Government will consistently and progressively – as the economic situation allows for it – implement more and more of the objectives of the Government Declaration and the Sem Declaration. In many cases, the parties of the Storting are not more in disagreement than that good and collective solutions can be found. In Norway, fortunately, we have solid experience in helping to strengthen cohesion when it comes to solving demanding problems. This is not least the major challenges we are now facing in international cooperation to combat the new threat of terrorism. This is where it has to be put on a broad front. The government will maintain the great importance of the world community building a political alliance for peace, democracy and security. The UN as a universal organisation has a main task here. All countries need to be involved in committed cooperation in order to trace terrorist cells, eliminate them and stop the financing of terrorist activities. The US military actions now implemented with the support of a wide range of countries constitute a legitimate defence under international law and the UN Charter and are confirmed by the Security Council. Such operations must be undertaken with a clear objective of avoiding the loss of civil life. The government will do its utmost to help the suffering civilian population. For many years people in Afghanistan have been suffering from war, natural disaster and water control. It's urgent to help, and I expect the Storting to join in the proposal to increase humanitarian aid by 200 million. kr. The next two to four weeks will be crucial for building up the necessary preparedness in the form of stocks and distribution systems within Afghanistan. It is also important to have a fruitful dialogue with the relevant immigrant community in Norway. I can inform you that the Minister of Local Affairs and the Minister of Justice will invite the heads of relevant immigrant organisations to such a dialogue meeting. As Prime Minister, I am invited by the World Islamic Mission to their mosque in Åkebergvejen, Oslo. I am pleased with this opportunity to strengthen the ties with the Islamic society in Norway and to point out that this is not a conflict between religions, but a fight against terrorism. The government is deeply concerned about the use of violence in the Middle East. I had a phone call yesterday with PLO President Yasir Arafat, and tomorrow I will have a phone call with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. I have stressed that the parties must refrain from violence, Israel must withdraw from the areas they have now invaded, and the Palestinian authorities must make every effort to ensure that those behind the murder of Israel's former tourist minister are arrested and held accountable. Work to combat poverty is a priority task. Nationally, poverty reduction among families with children will be central. Let me specify some targeted actions The government aims at: The indicative social assistance rates are to be raised.The cash support is to be excluded when social assistance is calculated. Municipal social benefits rates for housing expenditure must reflect the real cost of living. We will also focus on targeted measures to help more people get into the labour market. Better coordination between the Labour Market Act, the Social Security Act and the Social Offices is a prerequisite for achieving this. We want to promote measures to help disadvantaged people return to work and ensure flexible combinations of work and social security – in the pact with the commitment agreement between the social partners. We would like to invite all parties, organisations and stakeholders to a vigilance to ensure that we take back what is neglected in this important area – combating poverty in Norway. The family is a basic cell in our society. We all need a close frame around our lives. Freedom of choice, justice and equality are important in an offensive policy for today's and tomorrow's families. Therefore, we need to have both more and more reasonable nursery places, and the cash support is to be continued and increased during the period. We will work hard to achieve the goal of full child care coverage by 2003. We will treat the support of public and private kindergartens in a non-discriminatory manner. Therefore, we will bring together all government grants to the kindergartens in a direct grant. These changes will be addressed in the urban economicproposition for spring, with a view to their implementation from 1 January 2003. The importance of active district policy has been highlighted in the debate. Let me therefore stress that the government's goal for district policy is to ensure housing, value creation and viable communities throughout the country, both in the countryside and in the city. Access to important social services such as postal, telecommunications and broadband services in all parts of the country is central to maintaining the pattern of residence and ensuring equivalent living conditions irrespective of residence. Both new and old industries will be central to the development of offensive district policies. The government will focus on value creation. Tax relief and good framework conditions for small businesses are a central part of this. Regional allocation of government tasks and public services shall be ensured by following the guidelines for state localisation policies. Good transport solutions across the country will reduce distance constraints and thus contribute to achieving the objectives of district policy. Environmental challenges are major and far-reaching. We will create more sustainable solutions in relation to the environment and the climate challenges. The Government will submit an additional notice to the Climate Change Communication to ensure: a substantial part of the emission reductions is achieved through national action accelerating a national emission system demonstrable progress towards achieving Kyoto commitments by 2005 continued use of green taxes in environmental policy Biological diversity, forward-looking energy policies, marine environmental protection and clean-up of old environmental sins are other key environmental policy areas for the Government. We face major challenges both internationally and nationally, but we have the prerequisites for mastering them. To these tasks, the Government looks forward to a good cooperation with the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e209	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e212	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity of congratulating Mr. Kjell Magne Bondevik on the task of Prime Minister. The Workers' Party is neither part of the Government's foundation nor part of the Government's basis. We're the government's opposition party, but we're still going to focus on cooperating with the government, finding good solutions where there's a basis for that, and we're looking forward to that cooperation. We regret that the Christian People's Party chose to go to the Right and the Advance Party to find the basis for a new government. We believe that better solutions could have been found in relation to many of the issues of the Christian People's Party, by cooperating with the Workers' Party and the Left. Once the Christian People's Party has made the choice they have made, however, we will do everything we can to take care of matters that we have been concerned about together, and the Prime Minister mentioned two of them in his statement. One is more and cheaper kindergartens. Right, Christian People's Party and Left promised at least as much bet on more and cheaper kindergartens as the Workers' Party did in the election campaign. We know that the escalation to which the Christian People's Party and the Right joined the Storting a few years ago, means at least NOK 1 billion more per. years in increased appropriations for kindergartens. It has been incorporated into the government's proposals for the government budget, and I hope and expect and ask the Prime Minister to confirm that there is no obligation to cut kindergartens in the government budget proposal that the government will submit. I'm not asking for a full state budget, I'm just asking you to stand by what you so clearly and numerically promised for several rounds in relation to bets on kindergartens, which require at least NOK 1 billion more per. years. The second is the fight against poverty. Substantial escalation has been introduced in the draft budget of the Workers' Party in terms of just getting people back to work, re-employment, helping disadvantaged people back, and other measures in relation to wage subsidies for enterprises taking on vulnerable workers. I hope that the Prime Minister can also confirm that there will be no cuts in those areas, because it is about the weakest.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e225	I may also take the opportunity from the Parliamentary Chair to congratulate the representative, Mr Stoltenberg, as – once again – the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party. Last time, his period became like the unusually short. I wish him a much longer period this time. As far as kindergarten bets are concerned, I can assure you that the new government will have it as a priority area. When it comes to the construction of kindergartens, you know that it is not adopted in government offices. It is adopted in the municipalities and by any private builders. So what the government can do in terms of the rate of expansion is to facilitate whether each year it gets the number that a person wants and has as a goal – and the goal is equal for the previous government and for the current government, namely full coverage by 2003. You never know for sure. All governments and all children's and family ministers have learned that the rate of expansion has often not been what one originally thought. But it's clear that we have the same goal as the outgoing government, and will facilitate it. What's also important is to bring down the prices gradually. The problem today is that many private kindergartens do not receive support from the municipality, they only receive state subsidies. It makes prices, especially in several of these private kindergartens, unreasonably high. There, the new government is now taking a step that it has not taken before, namely to bring together grants into one grant, so that all government grants reach all approved kindergartens. It surprises me that the previous government did not take such a grip. The new one has now set it up and aims to work from 1 January 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e234	When the others are in good spirits, let me also join and congratulate the Prime Minister on the resumption of the most important – almost essential – chair here in the Chamber. I wish him luck in the future and express the hope that he will remain Prime Minister longer than he did last time. In particular, there has been little interest in the declaration debate in the media, but much more interest in focusing attention on the problems of sustainability, including: based on the membership of a Council of State in Frimurerlojen. I can't see that there's any problem for anyone at all, at least not for the Council of State. But when the Workers' Party has chosen to put the spotlight on the stability of politicians, I would like to challenge the Prime Minister to do so. In the last election campaign, the Landsorganisation in Norway paid 6.7 million. D to the Labour Party's election campaign, against political promises in key policy areas. There is a cooperation agreement between the LO and the Workers' Party. It has apparently never led to instability for worker party councils involved in wage settlement. There we have a dramatic problem of stability in Norway – not to mention all workers' party government representatives in this country who are bound by an agreement with the Norwegian Municipal Association in LO to take care of the interests of the local community where there may be a conflict of interest between the municipality and the local community. It's a serious problem of stability, unlike the trifle that a government council is a member of the Freemasonry. This distorts in a way many negotiations within the local government of the country when it is known that the representatives of the Workers' Party have a contract. Will the Prime Minister see to it that we have a reassessment of the rules on the stability of elected representatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e243	Since there was talk of the importance of chairs in this room, at least the Prime Minister and his government are fully aware that a government at any time depends on having a good relationship with the Storting, and that all power is thus assembled in this room. In addition, in the range of congratulations, I would like to address him who sits on the very front chair – and congratulate the President. As far as the stability of politicians is concerned, there is an interesting question. In my opinion, the relationship between the Landsorganisationen and the Workers' Party, to which Mr. Carl I. Hagen pointed, must be primarily a matter for the Workers' Party as a party. I note with interest that a new debate has arisen within the Workers' Party on this relationship. We who represent other parties may have our views on this and may think that the tapes are too tight, but I have always been among those who have respected that in this respect, the Labour Party and the LO must decide for themselves what they are earned. There are probably a number of politicians both in this room and in local governments who are members of different organisations representing interests in our society, and I have difficulty seeing what legislation can be developed in this area that would create clear driving rules. I would like to attend a debate on that, but I find it difficult to see that someone here can design a code. I think it has to be up to the individual's discretion to ensure that one does not interfere with a dependency that limits the free judgement of the elected public in the exercise of their duties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e252	I would like to ask the Prime Minister some questions about the serious international situation, which well overshadows many of the issues that we can deal with in Norwegian policy. There is now a very serious situation in Afghanistan, and various relief organisations report that up to 100,000 children may be at risk of losing their lives in a few weeks if there is no comprehensive humanitarian aid and large-scale relief work. There are now many humanitarian organisations calling for bombing to be deployed, so that this humanitarian aid can effectively reach all corners of Afghanistan, and there are also in various contexts calls for a bombing stop to enable the UN to come up with proposals for a political solution. Will the Government take the initiative, either in the Security Council or by other means, to put a stop to bombing in Afghanistan so that humanitarian aid can emerge and a political solution can be found? The second question is: In the previous ageing period, the Stortinget decided that Norway should work internationally for a ban on the use of class bombs. This was a fairly broad consensus in Stortinget. Now reports begin to show that class bombs are being used over Afghanistan, and so far we can see that the country that already has 16 pst. of its territory occupied by mines, may now come in a further worsening situation, because the remains of these class bombs behave exactly as mines. Is Norway going to follow up internationally the proposal that was made during the previous enlargement period and that was given a majority, namely the ban on the use of class bombs? And will it be ensured that this point of view is also taken up in all its strength in relation to the acts of war that are now taking place in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e261	I share Mr Halvorsen's concern about the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan. But it is important to be aware that a difficult humanitarian situation in Afghanistan had arisen long before the military actions. This includes, inter alia: the outcome of a country’s delinquency over a longer period of time. It is important to bear in mind that the difficult humanitarian situation is not something that has suddenly arisen. It's been there a long time. That's why I don't think it's right that someone should now take an initiative on a bomb stop, because it could reduce the pressure that the international community has now put in to achieve results, that is, to make the terrorist network harmless and to put those responsible in charge of it. Terrorist networks must be broken down by political, economic, legal and military measures. This is where the international community stands together, and that fight must be won. If I do not think that the consequences will be much worse in the long term for the population perhaps both in Afghanistan and in other countries. The attacks on the United States were condemned by an entire world, and such an initiative that Kristin Halvorsen now advocated will easily work against his purpose. The government will continue to follow up on the need for additional humanitarian aid from Norway. As regards the use of instruments in these military actions, Norway does not have a direct impact on them. The attitude of the type of weapon mentioned by Kristin Halvorsen, which is anchored in Stortinget, is obviously the same from the Norwegian side as it has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e268	I have to say that I think the Prime Minister gave a somewhat defensive response to the serious situation we are facing in Afghanistan. There is every reason to take it seriously and to use the means necessary to combat terrorism. However, it should be done in a way that affects the civilian population as much as possible. Of course, it is not right that we have no means to counteract the situation that has arisen when you are now using class bombing. We have the instruments we have in other contexts – we can use our influence through the Security Council, we can use our ability to participate in the debate on this. There should be a completely different pressure from that now expressed by the Prime Minister. But there was a completely different area I wanted to ask the Prime Minister a question about. On 9 March 2000 was in many ways a historic day. Then the previous government, led by Kjell Magne Bondevik, chose to deal with an important environmental issue. Environmental challenges are some of the greatest and most important challenges we face in the coming years. The Sem Declaration on page 18 states that the new government assumes that additional gas power plant concession and emission permits will only be granted ‘to gas power plants based on CO2 free technology’. On page 19 of the same statement it is stated that the Cooperative Government can ‘accept a realisation of the Snow White project’. It opens a very interesting problem, because the Snow White project cannot be realised unless a large gas power plant is built to be used to cool the gas. I do not want an answer to all the measures that the Government has planned to put in place to enable the construction of CO2-free gas power plants, but I want an answer to: Does this mean that the Government intends to grant concession for the development of Snow White before it is clear that it will happen to emission-free gas power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e277	Of course, the representative, Enoxen, must be allowed to believe. But I cannot agree with him when he interprets my answer in connection with the actions in Afghanistan as ‘defensive’. Norway needs to show firmness in the fight against terrorism. If not, the long-term humanitarian consequences can be insurmountable and disastrous. We have to hold on to that. Norway is and shall be at the forefront of providing humanitarian assistance to the civilian population suffering, and the aim of the action is also to avoid loss of civil life. Nor is there any disagreement that the use of some types of class bombs may constitute an unintended humanitarian problem. It's an experience we can clearly draw, among other things. from the Kosovo operations. Therefore, at international level within the framework of the Convention on the Prohibition of Certain Types of Inhuman Weapons, work is now under way with a view to establishing legislation and restrictions on the use of certain types of class bombs, or explosive legacy after acts of war, as it is called in this context. This is a work supported by Norway. In terms of gas power and environmental policy, I had hoped that the leader of the Centre Party had seen and registered and recognised that, in my opinion, the Sem Declaration has actually moved the bulk of the population in a more environmentally friendly direction than what would have happened without this cooperation. As regards CO2 and gas power issues in relation to the Snow White project, normal proceedings will be initiated. In the event of a CO2 tax, as a gas power plant already has on the base, it will also be charged.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e285	First briefly to the Prime Minister's first reply to me about kindergartens. It was a rather long answer, but I understood the answer there to that he was at least as much for kindergartens now as he was before the election, and before the election promised both the Right and Christian People's Party at least as cheap kindergartens as the Workers' Party. That means that I am pleased to note that there will be at least NOK 1 billion for cheaper and more kindergartens next year, and I am pleased about that. The next question is a completely different one, and it is that a prime minister's task is to ensure that the government's policy is consistent, that there are no differing views, principles and attitudes in different parts of the government's policy. At present, it seems that the government's attitude to financial crime is not interrelated. For while the social security system and customs office are actively using anonymous tips to combat economic crime, the Government in the fisheries sector is taking a great deal of distance from the same type of instruments. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: is it such that the fight against financial crime is important to the Government, and is it such that it is considered that anonymous tips on combating social security abuse, combating smuggling and fighting other types of financial crime, but not in the fisheries sector? It is, in fact, an important issue, because it is an important method, and it is an important issue, namely financial crime, and the Prime Minister should ensure that the Government has a common position, not more positions. It reminds us of cracking staur, and we have bad experiences with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e292	Yes, the Prime Minister is at least as much for the expansion of kindergartens now as he was before the election. But I do not intend to have a budget debate on the Great Britain's pulpit in a debate on the subject of the throne and the declaration. What is crucial is that the Government makes funds available to the kindergartens that are built by municipalities and private individuals. In fact, it is not necessarily determined by the number in the budget, it is decided by decisions in municipalities and by private builders, and then the Government will have at its disposal the State subsidy necessary to obtain it. But what this Government has been concerned about, unlike the previous, is taking action and taking measures to ensure that prices go down not only in public kindergartens, which receive state and municipal subsidies, but also in private kindergartens, where more people are now only receiving state subsidies. It worked for the previous government a long time. There was never any suggestion on the table. The new government has now taken a step forward and said that in order to ensure equal treatment and to bring prices down in private too, we are bringing it together in one grant. So to something else – the tipphone for fish fraud. This tipphone was met with considerable scepticism in the industry, because such an instrument could be perceived as indicative and create difficult relationships between economic operators along the coast. The reason for the position of the fisheries minister here is not that he wants to weaken the fight against financial crime, but he does not want to do so by anonymous tips that can be seen as an indication. The effort to overcome illegalities and improve resource control in the fishing industry shall not be affected by this. That work will continue with unimpaired strength, I can assure the representative Stoltenberg of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e299	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e302	There are two events that we've all experienced in the last 15 years that have changed the world. Both events were unforeseen. The first was the fall of the Berlin Wall, which started a process of assembly in Europe expressed through NATO and the EU. The second event is what happened on September 11th, which is likely to have as discordant effects as the first one I mentioned. Firstly, I believe that this will lead not only to the efforts of assembly in Europe continuing with undiminished strength, but also to the further acceleration of the cooperation that we have seen between the EU, the United States and Russia before 11 September. We have seen that this triangle between Europe, the United States and Russia has collapsed in the Balkans, increasingly in the Middle East, and we see that this is now also the case in combating international terrorism. We have to assume that this pattern will intensify. It is in my opinion a good thing for our common globe, but it can be a big challenge for Norway, which is not with any places. So I think the first event, the fall of the Berlin Wall, and the last one, September 11th, is going to have to lead us again to analyse our situation both in Europe and in the international community. Secondly, this forces a much stronger focus on countries where civil war has taken place, where governments have gone into disintegration, where there is no administrative apparatus or any structures, because there are warlords, drug lords and terrorists operating from and having their bases in. Until now we have thought that this problem was far away, but now this problem has become our neighbor. And the groups that operate can have tools, such as: weapons of mass destruction, in their hands capable of threatening all mankind. That's what hit me most on September 11 when I saw the towers at the World Trade Center collapsing. Those who are able to do this are capable of anything. And this problem we have seen elsewhere in the world – in the Congo in Africa, in Sierra Leone, and now in Afghanistan – namely, that we see warlords, terrorists and criminals operating from states that have actually gone into disintegration. I believe that the main consequence of this is that the UN needs to get into the driver's seat and develop a broad strategy to restore peace, to build civil rule and political democracy, and to bring about economic development. And this was just one of the three points that Norway made for its commitment to the UN Security Council when we presented it in this room. We had Africa in mind in particular. But now Afghanistan has become equally high time. We must try to develop a broad strategy through the UN, combining humanitarian aid, peacekeeping operations, the building of democratic institutions, civil organisations and long-term financial assistance. It is my clear belief that the UN must be in the leadership of this. The UN must have the leading role in rebuilding Afghanistan after the war. And I want to add: this is not going to replace the military operations, which are now necessary. What is the alternative to them? The option is likely to be to sit and wait for these networks and these groups to continue operating from Afghanistan, waiting for the next attack. We have to fight them militarily, but at the same time we have to have a political focus on what's going to happen afterwards, because otherwise we won't achieve the things of the world. The third thing that, in my opinion, must be the effect of 11 September is that poverty must be combated at the top of the agenda. But I want to stress: it is too easy to say that poverty is the cause of the terror that we see. It is also too easy to say that this has its basis in Islam. Religions have been used for so much up through history. Christianity was used to launch the crusades, among others. towards the Middle East. We did not draw that conclusion from the fact that there was something wrong with Christianity, but there were some who used Christianity erroneously, just as there are now some who exploit Islam erroneously. So that's not the cause. There is no war against Islam. And neither can we draw the conclusion that there are poor people who use terror. In my opinion, this terror has its basis in the Middle East. If we look at the Middle East, the Arab countries have been humiliated by their governments for decades because of military defeat. There is also an economic loser in many of the countries of the Middle East. Over the past 30 years, opportunities used by other countries have been abused, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. in Egypt, an enormously poor country in which fundamentalism grows, in Syria, which is still, in Iraq, which 30 years ago was a pluralistic, secular society with freedom of the press and forms of political democracy, but which is now a tyranny with enormous economic problems. This is where terror has its basis. Nevertheless, we must be aware that this terror can spread worldwide if we do not combat poverty, because it finds its nourishment and has its roots in poverty. That is why poverty must be combated at the top of the international political agenda. And then finally the Middle East. We now see that the Middle East is threatening international peace and security. Therefore, it is no longer possible to leave this to the parties themselves. The international community needs to commit itself more strongly, simply because it now concerns the entire international community, because this terror has its roots in the Middle East. I see it this way -- there is no simplification, even if it sounds simple -- that the international community took on the task of doing what was absolutely necessary after the war, namely establishing the State of Israel. The international community must take on the task of establishing a Palestinian State. There can be no security for Israel without the Palestinians being given their freedom, nor can there be freedom for Palestinians unless Israel is guaranteed its security. This must be put on by the international community and ensure that it is realized – both of them. This has been supported by Norway since the conclusion of the Oslo Agreement, that the objective of the peace process must be to establish a Palestinian State. In the first instance, international observers may be deployed to monitor the implementation by both parties of the recommendations made by the International Mitchell Committee. I think 11 September can be historic if we realize what this shows, that on our common planet we share common destiny, that we need a stronger global policy and stronger global institutions and through it have to do something about the international distribution in the world. We have to do something about the distribution. We need to get poverty at the top of the agenda, and we need to make global institutions stronger to enforce peace and security. I hope that this line will continue, also within the UN Security Council, especially now focusing on the misery that we see in many parts of the world, which therefore houses these terrorist networks.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e324	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e327	I note with satisfaction that the agreement on the main lines of Norwegian foreign and security policy that has been there is also present in the continuation. A debate on the persuasion, the respective declaration debate, is referred to as the opposition's debate. So far, my impression is that the Workers' Party, as the largest opposition party, has run this debate as a rather long-lasting taste in the balancing debate, and that former Prime Minister Stoltenberg is heard more as a sort of permanent finance minister who has had a short-term vicarium in the Prime Minister's chair. It could be tempting to interplate the representative of Jagland with a slight reluctance to the accession of the government where he himself was Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Declaration of Accession had one theme, namely to change to renew. It went like a red thread throughout the declaration. The task of the Workers' Party was to change to renew, in particular to change the public sector. Now it wasn't all the world out of it, as we know, both because there was obviously a strong internal disagreement in the government party about whether one really wanted to change the public sector, and there was even greater disagreement in the immediate environment, namely in the trade union movement. Now there are new cooperation patterns where the Workers' Party wants to interact with the Centre Party and SV. It's not exactly the two parties that have excelled with the most eagerness to change the public sector to renew. I guess it's not unreasonable to say that the Centre Party's alternate slogans are preserved for preservation. How does Jagland assess the new cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e338	I believe that the representative Inge Wohnung had a false representation of what the Labour Party government stood for and did. We had an ambitious programme for the renewal of the public sector, and there were a lot of things going on that I think this government is going to continue. I must remind you that what is going on is among the most extensive changes in the public sector since it became a significant part of our society, for example. The reorganization of hospitals, which was driven at a rapid pace, which came to a decision here in Stortinget, and which I hope will be followed up consistently by the new government. I must remind you of the restructuring of the defence, which was historic, but which was also necessary under the decisions taken by NATO at the meeting in Washington. There are difficult things going on in Norwegian society now in these two sectors. In addition, I would like to mention the police and justice sector. That there was internal disagreement about this in the Workers' Party, I see as a quality sign. The fact that such major changes can be made without debate is, in my opinion, not possible, and it would have been a sign of weakness if there had been no disagreement about it. Because then we don't get the good solutions either, when arguments can't be broken up. The internal disagreement is now present in the Government. I must remind you that the Christian People's Party opposed the reorganisation of hospitals. It is clear that there will be disagreement between the Center Party, SV and the Workers' Party on some of these things, but I can't see it as any huge problem, no greater problem than that there is internal disagreement in the Government. Yeah, I think maybe the biggest problem is that there's internal disagreement in the government. I hope at least that will not lead to a lack of power in the work that needs to be done now, for example. in the health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e347	I agree with the former Foreign Minister and the current head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr Jagland, that the ongoing conflict is not a religious conflict, and that it is not a struggle against Islam. But I would also like to ask a question about Jagland is familiar with some strong Muslim countries that have been stable democracies for a long and lasting time, and whether he is aware of a longer article in the Evening Post the other day and the the theories and views of a Professor Huntington, who has announced possible new lines of conflict in the future. He may take inwards certain differences that are, however, between Christianity and Islam, and what it has come to. Then I have a question for party leader Jagland. He has also previously taken on the role of party leader in various debates here in the house. It is about the struggle for the stability of the Minister for Fisheries, which the Workers' Party's spokesmen have now put into action. It's the same theme I raised with the Prime Minister. We have a regulatory framework for local government. What is the principle position of the head of the Workers' Party when the representatives of the Labour Party are bound by an agreement with the Norwegian Municipal Association and other trade unions? Will the representatives of the Workers' Party then be Hafile when matters are discussed in the Municipal Council where there might be a conflict between the municipality and the trade unions? The head of the Workers' Party feels completely disadvantaged when he is involved in designing the Workers' Party's policy, when the Landsorganisation in return for a 6.7 million gift. Do the Labour Party election campaign make political demands?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e354	There will be something too far to go into this with Islam and which countries have not been stable democracies. I think it's too simple as Carl I. Hagen here presented it. At all, it's not very appropriate now, I think, in the heated international situation to simplify too much. I can mention one Muslim country, and I think that until recently it was the largest, namely Indonesia, which has 180 million inhabitants divided into 500 tribes and 18 000 islands. I think it was until quite a short time ago the largest Muslim country that has managed to keep this together. But to the extent that there are conflicts, they are not linked to religion. They're related to the very fact I mentioned. We need to know what this world is like and what kind of countries we are facing, and which have far greater problems than a homogeneous country like Norway has. That's what it was about. The trade union movement and Norwegian Municipal Councils are not closed organisations. There are organisations that are democratic, that have open meetings. Their congresses and meetings are completely open and work in a democratic society. It's something other than attending completely closed assemblies where you don't know what's being discussed or who's a member. It's not like workers' party people have some problems with their capacity because of this. It must be an advantage, I think you have contacts with popular organizations. In fact, I have never objected to the fact that the Right has close contact with the NHO, and that one of the directors of the NHO is now in the Government. I will criticize the Right for their policies, but I will not suspect them of dishonest purposes. On the contrary, I see it as an advantage that political parties have contacts with broad organisations representing broad interests and groups in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e361	I share some of the considerations that Thorbjørn Jagland gave when it first came to the fall of the Berlin Wall, the end of the Cold War and the new threat picture that has now become very clear to everyone and everyone after September 11. After all, the new debate on defence and security policy needs to be on how to deal with this and what it is that works in the fight against terrorism – what will be the new acts of war in this international situation after the end of the Cold War. I would like to challenge Thorbjørn Jagland to say what it is Workers' Party and the majority believe is a successful result of the acts of war that are now directed towards Afghanistan. For some of what is just the new threat picture, is that this action, as far as we know, has been carried out by citizens not from Afghanistan, but from Egypt and Saudi Arabia, inspired or trained by bin Laden, but with wallpaper knives and with the will to set their own lives to, and therefore the consequences have become so great. Had it been so that the world was now primarily threatened by missiles from Afghanistan directed towards targets in the rest of the world, it could be thought that making them harmless was what could save us. The problem is that even if you were to bomb Afghanistan apart and together, there is no one who could say you shouldn't sit and wait for some kind of terrorist action to come somewhere else. Then it's about making sure that you have a long-term perspective on what you're doing now. Many of those today who are the terrorists of the world and in extreme environments who are willing to use that kind of action are, of course, recruited and built to fight back enemies in earlier times. For example, bin Laden is recruited from the CIA to turn the Soviet Union out of Afghanistan. When is this action successful?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e369	I can't relate to the fact that the CIA in its time was involved in building up bin Laden, when bin Laden is now a threat to all of humanity. Then do not keep such historical facts. We can't because the CIA was involved in building him up, now don't do anything. In terms of what can be described as successful, it had to be that one had to shut down the nucleus of this, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, But that's not enough, that's what I based my entire post on. But I have to remind you, since I also mentioned Sierra Leone in my speech – and everyone remembers the tragedy that has spread in that country, and which continues to exacerbate it – that it was possible to establish a certain stability precisely because British forces and other forces have moved in. If they hadn't, the situation would have been just as bad and would have continued to destabilize the whole of West Africa. So failing to use military instruments does not lead to anything good. But you have to have a wider perspective than that, and that's why I focused on the fact that the UN needs to develop a broad strategy to restore civil rule, to bring about economic development, and that's what we need now to have a broad discussion of. But I'll warn you against thinking this is as simple as it's not about people who can fire rockets against the world out of Afghanistan. No, it doesn't, but it's about networks that are capable of deploying people all over the world, and that can turn civilian planes into bombs. And those bombs can be anywhere, even if they're not launched in or fired from Afghanistan, and that's what we have to deal with, otherwise I don't think we take our responsibility seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e376	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e379	As far as health reform is concerned, I just want to remind the representative, Mr Jagland, that the Labour Party on that point followed up a position that the Right and the Advance Party had already taken. There's a lot left. Although the responsibility is now transferred to the state, there is much more to it than getting more health out of the money that is given, and it is a work that the new government will start on. When the Right seeks cooperation with the Real Center, it's because we have good experience with such cooperation. Cooperation brings out the best in the batches. Therefore, neither the Declaration of Accession nor the Sem Declaration are blue copies of the programme of one or the other Party. It is real cooperation documents based on conservative, liberal and Christian democratic values. It is about protecting human life and respecting human dignity, about freedom and personal responsibility, about the need to protect the family, the voluntary communities and the institutions of civil society. The Labour Party has shaped Norwegian policy for several decades. The autumn elections may represent the end of the social democratic era. The defeat of the Workers' Party may be due to the loss of the party's power and ability, but also to the loss of the voters' faith in the Workers' Party. I think the voters see that the challenges of modern society cannot be solved by the fact that more and more power and decisions are to be moved from one family and civil society to another. When the changes in society are as big as they are now, there is a need to protect and strengthen the lasting values that give us identity as individuals and citizens, and that neither the state nor the market can take care of. A strong and consistent defense is needed for the self-held human being, for the family and for the thousands of people in a society where the most important things in life take place. Such a policy is based on trust, responsibility and personal freedom and involves inter alia: lower taxes and greater freedom of choice. While the left-hand side has always talked about everything as a policy, we assume that politics is also about setting political boundaries. The value base shall form the basis of the policy. The co-operation administration will focus on providing our children and young people with the best possible education, modernising the public sector so that we can get more out of resources, lower taxes and taxes so that families can retain more of their own income and the conditions for value creation are improved, combat poverty and need both nationally and globally, and pursue offensive environmental policies based on the objective of sustainable development. These are policies that are recognizable as to what the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have previously cooperated on, and it is a policy that responds to the challenges of globalisation. Globalisation offers us many opportunities while increasing the challenges. Knowledge and ability to use knowledge are becoming increasingly important for individuals, businesses and Norway. The fight for investment requires making it more attractive to invest and develop new ideas in Norway. Environmental challenges require willingness to cooperate internationally, but also the ability to sweep at its own door. Poverty problems require that we show willingness to help through assistance, but also to release the third world into our market, so that countries can create more well-being for their citizens. The reactions to the Declaration of Accession have been quite predictable. It is not surprising, but quite revealing that both the Workers' Party and the SV in their first comments were more concerned with knowing which party had the most impact than to analyse the change in course that the declaration involves. The purpose is obviously a rather undiscovered attempt to create a rift. It may not be surprising that it is the parties that have demonstrated for years that they have difficulties dealing with cooperation, which also use every opportunity to attack the cooperation of other parties. At the same time as the Labour Party's leadership sends its agents into the field to attack the Christian People's Party's family, environment and school policies, management asks for good weather and cooperation. That can hardly be serious. We do not fear the efforts of the Labour Party and the SV to crack cracks in our cooperation. We're prepared to be tested, and we're going to show that the relationship is strong. Yesterday the Workers' Party tried to turn the declaration debate into a balancing debate, while SV confirmed that the party has ambitions to become the driving force on the left. It is nice for SV, but not good for Norwegian policy at all. After the election, it is not modern radicalism, but rather a rather reactionary socialism that characterizes parts of SV. A not insignificant number of SV’s aggregate representatives are active members of Socialist Youth, an organisation that supports revolution and wants to abolish private ownership. This is thoughtful as most of the parties on the left parked on the historic scrap pile in 1989 when the “wall of shame” fell and freedom and democracy prevailed. SV is no longer just a charming element of Norwegian policy, but can also become a significant factor in power. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to focus on the fact that reactionary socialism is gaining ground in the party. The Labour Party has left a government budget for 2002 which in some areas indicates a step in the right direction. For 2001, the Labour Party proposed record tax increases. For next year, relief is proposed. But at the same time, there are broken promises and a pile of unpaid bills. The budget contains a wide range of investments, but despite the increased use of oil money, the Labour Party Government is still proposing to transfer unpaid bills for around DKK 13 billion to the 2003 budget. The biggest lifting breach is the proposal to postpone the removal of the investment levy until 1 October next year. It had promised the Workers' Party to remove it in writing on 1 April, and there was no April joke, according to Jens Stoltenberg at the NHO Annual Conference. The electricity tax relief will only take place on 1 July 2002 and the changes in the depreciation rules will have little budgetary impact next year. In addition, the lack of ad hoc follow-up to defence reform comes. Jens Stoltenberg is of course right when he says that the new government and the Stortinget can change the proposals of the workers' party government. The question is, however, whether the Workers' Party believes that leaving a dwelling with large unpaid bills is a responsible and tidy way of acting. We have not received an answer to that question. This harvest, too, will require the use of much more oil billions. If such a line is penetrated, it is bad news for all those struggling with the high interest rate. Internationally, the economy is characterised by uncertainty and falling forecasts. It increases the need for firmness and confidence in economic policy. We are faced with a combination of several factors that suggest that monetary policy should stimulate activity in the economy. This concerns the prospects for weaker economic growth, which will particularly affect industry, stronger wage growth than with our trading partners and strong exchange rates and a high level of interest rates. The Labour Party Government's draft budget for next year is already expansive. With a tight labour market, further incentives through budgetary policy may have to be countered by continued tight monetary policies. This means a higher value of the krona compared to the currencies of other countries and a higher level of interest rates, which weakens confidence in the new budgetary policy guidelines. It is therefore important to continue the broad consensus on the new guidelines for the management and use of petroleum revenues. The further development of the welfare society requires a strong and competitive business and a modern, efficient public sector. The working party has given up. In this debate, too, the party has reiterated its message that it is not possible to improve public services while improving the framework conditions for value creation. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have presented a cooperation document and a declaration that this is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e413	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e416	The representative Sanner said that the Labour Party had made this debate a balancing debate. It was interesting to note, then, that the representative Sanner himself went into a budget debate to such an extent. At the same time, the representative Sanner also says that what is to be the government's policy cannot be a blue copy of either the Right or the program of the other government parties. But it is also a fact that the Right in the election campaign promises huge tax breaks. As far as I'm concerned, Petersen makes it about. $40 billion. If a former fiscal spokesman, Mr. Børge Brendes, is to be expected, it is to be 70-80 billion kroner. I then note that these are promises that the Right is not able to follow up in the new government, but the Right has clearly been able to get through for monthly tax breaks, while it seems that the Christian People's Party and the Left have had the effect of a monthly increase on actually – at random perhaps – some of the areas proposed by the Right in their last alternative budget just to finance tax breaks. My question is: how is the new government going to do this? When it comes to the use of oil money, it is said by the Government, and the following representative Sanner now says that one should stick to the new rule of action – and that is good. However, forecasts from the Ministry of Finance show that by 2005 it will give us approx. Between 24 and 25 billion more than the 2001 level. At the same time, the Government says that it will use half of this for tax purposes. Then my question is, how can you finance the remaining 18 to 19 billion dollars?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e425	The representative Rudihagen now confirms that the Workers' Party wants to make this declaration a balancing debate, but I will nevertheless answer Rudihagen's questions. It is true that both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have had a significant impact on their positions in the cooperation declaration and the cooperation document presented. That's what cooperation is, that you have to give and you have to take. We in the Right are proud of, and I have understood that it is in the Christian People's Party and the Left too that they have put their mark on the cooperation. How the government will make this happen in concrete terms, the representative Rudihagen knows that he will receive an answer on 9 November. But let me show you that the Co-operation Board has pointed out that there is a need for re-priorities in the budget. There is a growth in the economy that can take the form of lower taxes, but also by focusing more on priority welfare areas. It is true that the new rule of action allows both to reduce taxes and to invest in particular in knowledge, technology and infrastructure. And we're serious about saying that we want to modernise and streamline the public sector. I note that the Workers' Party unilaterally focuses on the modernisation of the public sector contributing to further increasing public expenditure. We are convinced that a targeted streamlining and modernisation of the public sector, which also involves the use of tenders and competitive outsourcing, will help us to gain more well-being from the money allocated.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e432	I have two questions for the Vice-President of the European Parliament, but first I would like to note with satisfaction the fundamental clarification he gave when it comes to cooperation, the penetration of the three parties of the government, and the need for everyone to give and take when it is to be co-operation. The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party has expressed the same thing. I assume you'll remember that when you're working with the Progress Party on next year's government budget. I have two questions. The first question is about pensions. People have, through a long life, paid contributions to popular peace. Then they become pensioners, and then you feel that those who are married get a curtailment in the pension compared to others who have paid exactly the same premium, but who don't get curtailment because they're not married. Is it the Court’s view in principle that pension rights are a right that has been paid for, or is it the Court’s view in principle that there is a social benefit where the authorities are free to carry out curtailments and reductions on the basis of their discretion? It's a fundamental clarification. The Progress Party considers this to be a vested right in which the authorities are not allowed to make curtailments. So we've used strong terms about this abbreviation. The second question concerns the submitted state budget, where the outgoing government proposes to spend 18 507 million. kr to pay off the hospital’s debts – oil money outside the budget framework, because it has no activity effect. Why does the Right not agree with the same thing as the Progress Party advocates, to disburse the debt to all completed toll-funded road projects with oil money, so that all these toll stations can be removed with the same justification as in the case of the reduction of hospital debt and former Gardermoban debt?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e441	Let me first confirm to Mr Hagen that we have the same understanding of cooperation, that cooperation means giving and taking. We are pleased that Hagen, on behalf of the Advancement Party, has declared that a good cooperation with the new government is desired. We also want that, and we look forward to being able to put it into practice in the Storting. With regard to the first question about pensions that Hagen raises, I have no problem stating that the starting point for the pension is a earned right. But how this should be concrete in terms of curtailment is an issue that I think we should give the new Social Minister some time to consider in relation to the proposal put forward by the Progress Party in this Chamber. As regards the question of the use of oil money, which concerns the last issue raised by Hagen, the cooperation parties and the Progress Party have a slightly different view. We agree with the guidelines laid down for the increased use of oil money, and we believe that it makes sense to stick to those guidelines in order to build confidence in fiscal policy. We do not want to gamble over the fact that increased use of oil money will be answered with a continued tight monetary policy and a high level of interest rates. We are convinced that it will help undermine the competitiveness of industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e450	The representative, Sanner, both yesterday and now, just like the representative, Ine Marie Eriksen, Socialist Youth, and signed a visit. I choose to write it in the furting account of lost school choices. And even though I'd like to discuss the need for a socialist society with the representative Sanner, I'd like to talk about something else today. There is a growing tendency for foreign capital to take over Norwegian enterprises. In 1995, foreign owned enterprises accounted for 18 p.m. of industrial production in Norway. In 1999, foreign owners stood for 28 p.m. This has occurred at the same time as Norwegian capital has flowed out of the country both through the investment of the oil fund in foreign companies and through the establishment of Norwegian capitalists in low-cost countries. Whatever one might think of Norwegian capitalists, it is beneficial for Norway to have a business life based here, which can be governed according to Norwegian needs, and where the decisions are taken more closely by all the Nordics affected by it. The opposite situation leads to greater uncertainty for workplaces and the local environment. Kværner is now in a situation where the company's fate is placed in foreign hands, and we have a number of examples, for example. what happened to Hydro Seafood, that there are not enough Norwegian egg environments with sufficient ability or willingness to keep central parts of Norwegian business in Norwegian hands. The new government has expressed a clear desire to pursue a large-scale privatisation policy. However, a number of economic commentators have recently pointed out that spending state-owned companies for sale today would be able to vacuum the domestic capital market further, leading to an even greater number of Norwegian enterprises, both former state-owned and non-resident. The question to the representative Sanner will then be: Is the Right willing to implement its plans for extensive privatisation even if the consequence is that ownership of even more important Norwegian companies is being brought out of the country? Is privatisation more important than national ownership of the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e466	As far as the replicator is concerned, he is one of those who have declared that in the Grand Duchy he will fight for the principal programme of Socialist Youth, a program in which one declares oneself to be a follower of revolution and adversaries of private property rights. Obviously, if you choose that medicine and say that we should abolish private property rights and the state should own everything, and you also make sure that it's a 100 pst. state national ownership. I am convinced that if we are to ensure a growing Norwegian industry and a Norwegian business, we need to invest in privatisation as well. I am convinced that the reason we are getting more foreign ownership in Norwegian companies is that Norwegian companies have not been willing to bet on a policy that provides good framework conditions for Norwegian investors. Therefore, in the past, the Right has called for us to convert public funds into investments in private pension funds, so that we get more institutional owners in Norway. Therefore, we want to gradually reduce taxes on wealth, so that we create a better environment for investors. It is a policy in which, first and foremost, capital should be taxed as much as possible, which contributes to the drying of capital in Norwegian hands and which helps to make it primarily foreign investors who want to invest in Norwegian businesses. So if there's an invitation to strengthen national ownership, we'd like to receive it. However, this must include privatisation, which must include a reduction in the taxes on wealth, in which case it must help to create a good framework for Norwegian owners who want to invest in businesses. It is the best strategy to ensure both a high-growth business and the maintenance of national ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e472	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e475	The parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, Jens Stoltenberg, opened yesterday's debate with the claim that the voters did not want a new government, and was not deleted a government dominated by the right side of Norwegian policy. “The last thing I’m just interpreting is a confirmation that the new government has to rely on a greater influence on the Advance Party. Of course, I agree with that, and I want to say, it should just be missing. The Progress Party has over 360 000 voters behind it in the next period, somewhat less than in the previous period, but nevertheless the Progress Party is Norway's third largest party, in the last period we were the second largest party. And then my appeal is to Stoltenberg, to Halvorsen, to Bondevik, to Enoxen and to Sponheim: isn't it time to accept and respect these 360 000 voters on the same line with all the other voters, who must have made a different choice? The fact that Stoltenberg now interprets the election result in this way only confirms that the Workers' Party holds a – yes, I would say – human vision and an attitude that can be characterized by the following words: electoral contempt, undermining democracy. I believe I could claim that exactly this attitude is what has resulted in the Workers' Party having experienced the worst uprising of the times. The voters have seen through the Workers' Party's skepticism of the people's desire for a change of course, for many years. The voters have seen that the Workers' Party has been more concerned with its strong ties with the LO and some of the working groups that they have carried out in gold chairs for decades than with the overall development of society. The voters have seen through the fact that the Labour Party's tax policy has only been a cover-up to give priority to some industries and professions, which have created considerable differences between people. The representative Hagen was earlier today about this with capacity. I want to define it more as ‘bought and paid’. That's what we're saying in Trøndelag. The voters wanted a new course. The voters gave us an opportunity for a majority government consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. We have not been able to do this, even though the Progress Party has tried to the best of its ability. Now, after an overall assessment, the Progress Party has given the Cooperation Government a certain probationary period, and I really hope that this government will at least take seriously the 360,000 voters of the Advance Party by just giving them their democratic place through the influence of the change in course in Norwegian policy. And then there should be no more statements in line with what Minister of Agriculture Sponheim introduced yesterday. It is then important that the wording of the Sem Declaration and the Government Declaration on Modernisation of the public sector end up in concrete efficiency measures. I believe that the statement is vague, among other things. in relation to the county. I ask questions about whether the Government will evaluate the county council or only consider evaluating the county council. I guess I don't need to remind either the Right or the new municipal minister of past objectives and programme formulations. It is important to note that the ‘new county municipality’, as some people like to call it, will actually have a smaller basis of existence than ever after the hospital reform enters into force in 2002. The Progress Party will already challenge the Stortinget with proposals at this stage. In this context, I would like to challenge the new government to a debate on the general municipal structure. A closure of the county municipality will, if one does the right things, strengthen the autonomy of the municipalities, which many others are also concerned with. Greater attention should be paid to facilitating voluntary mergers of municipalities. The view of the party of progress on the county municipality is very clear. With regard to the number of municipalities, we believe that citizens have to decide this through referendums. Without referendums, we don't know what the people want. I think that most people are more aware of this than many politicians are, and that most people see the benefits of cooperation in addition to the widespread inter-communal cooperation. We must therefore have a comprehensive referendum, with recommended municipal mergers throughout the country. The population will become more and more aware of the quality of the service offered, and not whether the service is offered by the municipality of Levanger or by the municipality of Verdal. The future will consist of many more providers of all municipal services – across borders. Municipal boundaries should not prevent a person from grouping central tasks under the same roof. However, in no circumstances should community mergers be carried out without creating a better income base for municipalities as a whole. I believe that the citizens of each municipality will be more and more concerned with the service they have to receive than with unjustified border crossings between all local authorities or others who had to handle this. The Progress Party will – and has tried – to create such a debate. Personally, I believe that we are already too late to be out too early in making clear and intelligible decisions about this. I have, of course, also recorded that the new government in the declarations will strengthen the efforts to reduce the field of forms and regulations. It will resume and further develop the ‘Simplifying Norway’ project. One could not say that Bondevik I had particularly great success with his project. Therefore, it is appropriate to ask what priority this will now have in the new government. The progress party now requires results. At the same time, I would like to refer to an article that I found on the Internet yesterday, where it says: ‘Members become ill with bureaucracyInsomnia, constant fatigue, burnout and various physical stress diseases. These are plagues that affect more and more small business managers. They are being ill by the public form field.’ And on the other hand, «Inter-control systems, quality assurance systems, HMS,... rules of approval for responsibilities, Working Environment Act, Act on documentation, write from the Planning and Building Set and Staten building technical establishment. Builder Freddy Larsen lessens ringbread on the ringbread on the table.»– and sugar heavy. We have to do something about this. Finally, in my speech, I would like to address an area where the government statement is very poor, namely integration policy. I note that the new municipal minister promises borderless labour immigration, in my opinion, with groundless arguments about labour shortages. The immediate impact of this is an even greater flood of asylum seekers in search of work in Norway, which has also been the subject of the former Minister of Municipal Affairs, Brustad, today. It does not seem that the new government is aware of the labour that exists in the EEA area, the labour that can be freed in Norway, or the labour that I believe came to the attention of the representative, Rafiq, yesterday’s posts in the Chamber. It was also a very good contribution, which I believe can form the basis for a better integration policy and break down the discrimination that is taking place in Norwegian society, built up over a long time through a naive and misunderstood immigration and integration policy of the Workers' Party. However, in order to put Rafiq’s ideas into practice, Norway cannot have open borders for new asylum seekers. Now we must give priority to the integration of all those who have already stayed in Norway. And I feel that the representative Rafiq is also involved in his post. At the same time, however, we cannot have open borders for new asylum seekers and refugees. This year Norway experienced the largest immigration ever. St. pp. No 101 for 2000-2001 indicates the economic and administrative consequences of increasing the number of asylum seekers in 2001. But it doesn't say anything about all the other consequences this uncontrolled immigration can have. 2 000 asylum seekers have not yet been registered by police in Norway. What this can mean for us in a everyday life of terror, is hard to say about. The new government must now show responsibility and take this seriously. Last year's uncritical immigration is not only a barrier to real integration, but it creates major problems for those who really need asylum and for those who have already taken up residence in Norway. Every day we read about traders and shopping centres that shut people out because some asylum seekers do burglary around the country. Yesterday we read that young Somalis are now recruited in a large-scale way as long-term workers in the Oslo drug environment. I'll end by asking, when are we going to take this development seriously? The Progress Party now wants a free exchange of views in foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e515	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e518	As the representative Sandberg had in mind, the government of Bondevik in the Sem-Declaration has warned a strong embellishment of the legislation on labour immigration to Norway. In reality, the Bondevik II government is a shift in immigration policy without having made an evaluation of its impact. With the Progress Party saying that they form a parliamentary ‘base’ for the Bondevik government – I think many will be able to define it as a parliamentary basis – is my question to the representative Sandberg, who is the spokesman for immigration policy of the Progress Party: can one interpret it so that the Progress Party will now be involved in this conversion of immigration policy? The Bondevik government does not address the problems of the 70 000 unemployed we have today, where a large proportion are immigrants. And it's a little strange that the right-wing representative Sandberg's posts, considering that the Stortinget is now invited to adopt a proposal from the Progress Party that is based on the Government's full trust based on the Sem Declaration, that is, this statement that announces a strong change of the Labour Immigration Code, or a «change of course» that the Sandberg representative had in mind. My question is: can one interpret it so that the Progress Party will support this conversion when they print the Sem statement to their breasts in many ways?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e527	No, not at all! Of course, the representative Oppebøen Hansen has also registered that the Progress Party throughout the process has been very clear that there are a lot of things in the Sem-Declaration and also very many things in the government statement that the Progress Party cannot support. At the same time, however, we have said that, overall, these statements contain a course and a policy that goes more towards the desire of the Progress Party for a change of course. If we had chosen differently and allowed the Stoltenberg government and the Workers' Party to continue, at least the Progress Party would come to grips with its elected and elected representatives around the country. For there is nothing in the draft budget of the Workers' Party that calls for less immigration and less money for refugees than that contained in the declarations. It's just to see in St.prp. 101 for 2000-2001, which we now have to deal with, what has resulted from additional appropriations that we now need to put on the table in order to deal with the amount of asylum seekers that has arrived this year. So this year we are passing 16 000 asylum seekers. The Stoltenberg government has committed almost the same amount of immigration next year, and it budgets that the same amount of immigration will also be achieved next year. At least the Progress Party could not be in it. But as I said, after an overall assessment, we believe that the declarations contain a better policy for the Progress Party than the Stoltenberg Government and the Workers' Party do. However, it is quite clear that the Progress Party is on its programme, and we want to be on a case-by-case basis with immigration and foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e540	The representative Sandberg had, as one of his most important points in his post, the fact that the Sem comrades should have respect for the 360,000 voters of the Advance Party, and that is a starting point that I understand very well. I think it is a prerequisite for achieving many of the objectives set out in the Sem Declaration, that the three parties that now form the government block must have an understanding of the electorate of the Advance Party. But to say as Carl I. Hagen said earlier, politics is about giving and taking. And it is obvious that each of the three parties does not have a majority alone. It doesn't apply to my party either, Right. But by joining this government, we get a lot more than by standing alone and being in opposition. Carl I. Hagen referred earlier today to the bonds that lie between, among other things. Working Party and LO. And when we refer to the many reforms that are needed in the public sector, in terms of outsourcing, patient policy, hospital policy and tax policy, it is quite clear that there must also be so many issues for the Progress Party in all material respects that point in the right direction also in relation to the Progress Party programme, that in times like this, when one chooses to look ahead, we must not forget what could have been and can be the alternative. You have to keep doing that on the road. There is so much in the Sem Declaration and in the Prime Minister's declaration of government that it is also moving in the direction of the Progress Party that we cannot forget what will be the alternative either.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e547	The representative of Kristiansen is absolutely right. I might have used Ivar Kristiansen's line in response to Opbebøen Hansen in the previous line round. It is clear that there are many things here, as I said in my previous answer, which the Progress Party believes are very good. But it's still going to be put into practice, it's going to work, and that's why my main post today contained a couple-three question. I see and record that the statement says that now this government is going to do something about the business form and bureaucracy. But it also said the Bondevik I government, and then the opposite happened. That's why I ask questions about how high the new government prioritises this fight against bureaucracy and the form field. I hope, of course, that the result will now be that in the short term we see results that make our business really feel that they have been relieved. The same applies to competitive outsourcing. It remains to be seen whether the new government is speeding up efficiency, rationalisation and competitive tendering. It remains to be seen. I'll put question marks on it. That's why I also bring forward the perhaps largest bureaucratic mill we have, the county municipality, and ask questions, especially to the Right, which has flown quite high with the Progress Party in terms of shutting down the county municipality: Do we now want to assess instead of evaluating, simply get an evaluation when you close the county municipality during the next period? These are my questions and my challenges to the new government. But I am going to say that I fully agree with the representative of Kristiansen that there is a lot of good in the statement, but there are also a lot of things that the Progress Party obviously cannot be involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e556	In the past, the party of progress had a slogan called “The future is created – it is not adopted!” But I notice that Sandberg here has an idea that it is possible to adopt peace and deportability and end all war in the world, since he believes that there will no longer be a need to accept more refugees in Norway. Instead, he could engage a little for peace in the world by trying to work with the people and the people against the US bombing of Afghanistan and with the Palestinians against Israel's terrorist bombing of Palestinian children. Then there had been fewer people in the world who had had to flee from there at least. I was going to grab hold of Sandberg's efforts for Norwegian cultural life, because the "rocker" was hard. In addition to wanting to abolish any culture that does not pay off, he has come east of his cultural insight and has set up a new theatre policy programme. "A will have an harmless theater," he says, referred to in the newspaper last Sunday. That's why he's going to stop a set-up at The Theatre of Theater about the Nazi and Torturist Henry Rinnan. "A will have a harmless theatre, no" that spreads joy and experience, not such deep speculation," he continues. I think it's good that Sandberg no longer sits on the cultural committee. I know that Sandberg comes from a party where criticism is forbidden and you should only be entertained by the leader, and realize that he thinks it would have been nice if it were the same in the rest of the community as well. But I'll still ask him two things. Henrik Ibsen wrote community-responsive pieces about power and morality, for example. ‘An enemy of the people’. Does Sandberg think that Ibsen should be too good at it, or does he think that the theatres shouldn't set up Ibsen? The second is that there will be fewer and fewer people left in this country who have experienced the war. Does Sandberg feel that it is not so important to show young people today the evil of Nazism and to create thoughts about it, or does Sandberg feel that it is not so important to show young people the racism that the Nazis stood for?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e579	First of all, I would like to say that here we got a clear example of SV in free flow and without assignment, an undefiled SV that occurs from Stortinget's pulpit and among others. make fools of a dialect, and where the representative has not in any way intervened in the matters he is trying to comment to the best of his ability. I would like to draw the attention of the representative to the fact that, later today, we will have a proposal in which the Progress Party proposes 500 million. kr for refugees in Afghanistan. I assume that the representative Holmås and SV will vote against it, because this is at least in the setting. In the case of «non-hazardous theatres», I recommend that the representative take a better course in tranny, because it was also totally untapped and rude, if I am allowed to say so. I hope that's the last time we get such a performance from this pulpit. In the case of Rinnan, I've taken a completely different view, that this is a lot of kids suffering. It's the way that Rennan's descendants actually have children who start high school in Levanger today. Levanger as a community, especially Rennan’s family members, has been under enough strain for a long time. And I've never said at any time that I'm going to ask anyone to stop a play. But if I had been the director of this theater, I would have shown responsibility for this family by saying no to set up this piece. I understand that SV's representatives do not have the kind of understanding of human hardship and human anxiety over a long time that these people have had, but I do. That is why I will reserve the right to defend these people against, among other things. Representatives in line with Heikki Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e590	So the chord change is over. The President would otherwise say that the last round was a typical example of why Storting's Rules of Procedure are exactly the same as it is, and that all speech should be polite.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e595	For SV, fair distribution is a major and heart issue, both globally and locally. Poverty has many faces, and over 20,000 of them are children. They need emergency aid, they need money for school bags, for camp school, for membership in the Spiederen, and they should be allowed to let go of seeing their mother's humiliated crab to the Salvation Army in order to ask for food. They should also avoid living in fear of whether they from month to month have a roof over their heads. Unfortunately, this is the case in Norway today. They should also be allowed to get away from school because they know they can't join birthday parties or school trips because their parents can't afford it. Children who grow up in poor families are as much worth as other children. Everything about the protection of the family and the children falls dead to the earth if we fail the poorest children. SV has made many proposals to this effect, both in the context of the defrosting message in spring and later. Everyone in the Storting and the Government knows about this poverty. And what does the richest country in the world do when they know this? Well, then you start a campaign where the billions of tax dollars are the embarrassing main content. During the election campaign, this turned around. It was in Holmgang when the Salvation Army's Marit Solli with authority and dignity told the undead truth about poverty, and one could hear the buttonholes falling in the studio. SV challenges the Government to choose a clear side in the fight against poverty, the fight against poverty before tax relief, and the challenge to the Government is: Move at least a billion dollars, as the first you do, for the benefit of the poorest. When you've managed to decide what, for example: people who have a salary as a payroll representative will get, and when it is in the multi-thousand dollar class, it must be possible to do something for the poorest as well. Child welfare has been a hot topic, and some have suggested that social assistance users might spend their money on drugs and alcohol if they kept them. I have to say that in all the years I have had child welfare, no one has ever asked me what I have spent that money for. I think it's unacceptable to suggest that people who are economically poor take less responsibility for their children than we are well-backed. If people have an alcohol problem, they need help with it, and there is no excuse to keep a whole family and the children in poverty. In any case, the children are innocent, and they are not to be punished for financial problems. SV has made many proposals. The centre party has promoted most of them again, and we ask the government to look at these proposals. As an example, I can mention that a lone parent's child will lose almost 25 000 per child's pension only on this abbreviation. years, and there's a terrible amount of money. I can't understand how we're going to argue that they don't need this money when we need them. The Prime Minister said in his speech before today that he wanted municipal social benefits for housing for poor families to compensate for some of this. Yes, I wonder, when you see the local economy, how the Prime Minister thinks it's going to work. It should be such that it is a state task to ensure that at least the economy is capable of doing so. There are others there is also reason to encourage the Government to throw its forces in for the benefit of. It's expensive to be sick. The most expensive is if you're chronically ill. It can provide evidence to disabled people’s organisations for anyone who wants to listen to them. They've calculated that disabled people pay on average 8 000 kroner in prostheses per year, and that 35 pst. of them pay as much as NOK 24 000 in total. We want to encourage the Government to introduce a roof 2 for disabled people and chroniclers, and that should be about. NOK 3000. We who are healthy pay on average $4,000 per person. years, and then it is reasonable that disabled and chronically ill people, as we all know, earn less than all of us, also have a lower thank-you for their expenses for necessary health care. One of the government's flagships in the statement is an increased and quite massive commitment to privatisation. The main view of SV is that it is fully possible to do things both better and cheaper also in the public sector, without weakening the quality and weakening the pay and employment of employees. The gain by making it more efficient must be used to improve the quality of the service, not to tax credits for private drivers. It's been a bit manic for privatization now, and the Progress Party is the most manic of all. Everything that is private, profitable, and everything that is public, expensive, seems to be their attitude. In the world of the Advance Party, an assistant is a cost if there is a municipality on the coat, but values if there is AS on the coat, and I ask: does the government share this view? The county auditors in Stockholm have published a report based on the consulting firm AffärsConcept AB's evaluation of six projects in the care sector in Stockholm. The result can be summarised as follows: All projects were more expensive. No project could demonstrate better quality. In addition to the municipality, there were only three different private tenderers competing for the same six projects, and Stockholm became better at writing tender documents. The last one might not be that stupid, knowing what to ask. Similar experience has been gained in Norway, and the reason for this is complex, but it is quite obvious that municipalities have been underfunded for a long time and therefore spend too little money on operations. In spite of this, municipalities and municipal employees' organisations are significantly more efficient and competent than their reputation, and that may be an important point. There must be more than me who find it a little premature for politicians from both the Right and the Advance Party to consistently paint blacks and devalue the work of the public servants. It is difficult to see any reason other than that there is a deliberate strategy to destroy the ability of public agencies to provide services of sufficient scale and quality to prepare the basis for privatisation. The strategy is in the process of success. Studies show that users of public services are mainly satisfied, while dissatisfaction is increasing among those not using services. So it is the fresh and prosperous of us who keep alive the myth of public insecurity and prepare the basis for the outsourcing, next time further privatisation. For SV, it is important to say that we in the welfare state need every help nurse, caregiver, cleaning, home help and teacher, and we need to build up skills. We have to make sure that we get professional competence. The requirement to increase competence must come, but as a quality requirement and not as a knock-out round in tenders. On the SV side, we would also like to say that there is a need for a recruitment message for the care professionals in line with what has been done for the teachers, in order to have an overall commitment to both government and growth to follow the necessary pay and working conditions. There is one area where the market is now almost unlimited. I think it's good to look at it if you want to know how this works, in case you go in for such a solution. It concerns the housing market. There's the freedom of choice and the result zero for many more than what we like to think about, and it's obvious that the market cannot secure housing for everyone. Now half a generation of young people are in danger of becoming debt slaves because it is the free market they are being offered, and the free market gives them no choice. Some of this debate is about us being very busy choosing. I have to say that the times I have been sick and need help, and it has sometimes been, it is not the freedom of choice that has struck me. It is not when I grab the catalogue of glossy paper to look for which hospital is best. No, then I need help! That's what's the primary responsibility for us, to make sure that people get help, that they get quality help, or that parents can choose the secondary school because it gives them quality education. It's along the lines SV will operate its policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e628	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e631	The government has today signalled a strong embellishment of labour immigration rules. SV has previously entered a so-called green card system. The outgoing government has already significantly softened today's rules, and from 1 January it will be very easy for employers in this country to collect non-Norway labour from outside the EEA. The Labour Party agrees that we should be able to bring in people with skills that we lack, and we should be able to provide protection to those who need it. The problem is, the Workers' Party believes, when a large-scale labour migration, as the Government now wants, replaces the labour reserve that we already have here in the country. We know that there are many people who are unemployed and who need to get to work. This applies not least to immigrants but also to others. There are people with low or no education. Very many of these need some help to get into work. Those who are poor often also lack work. It's both the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party. I was at a meeting on Monday with the rapporteurs in Eastfold, where we discussed immigration. They said that the big problem is to get these immigrants to work. Therefore, they refuse to accept and settle immigrants. Then I would like to ask: what does SV mean? Does SV agree with the Government that we should have a large-scale immigration? And how will SV solve integration and take care of those who are already here, who actually need to live here?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e642	SV has signaled that we want a somewhat more open policy on opportunities to come to Norway, get work and settle here. There has been a reaction to, among other things. The workers' party's very closed policy, which has made it almost illegal to wish to come to Norway, while we have had a very open attitude that the Nordics want to get out and try to get there. Our starting point for opening up more liberal labour immigration has been that we want to give positive signals that we need diversity and multiculturality in Norway, and that we should act against others as we want others to act against us. We have also signaled to the Government that it cannot take SV's support for given to its model of increased labour migration. We are engaged in and engaged in the very things that Signe Eye had in her contribution, namely ensuring measures for the unemployed and for the immigrants who are in the country. For this reason SV has inter alia: the proposal to have the right to action or to increase competence after four weeks if you are unemployed. Such concrete proposals, I think, are actually something we have to come up with. Then it is not only useful to say that we should take care of the disabled and the unemployed. Then we actually have to do it too, if not this becomes credible. Then it just becomes a policy to keep other people out of the country. Even in the case of rejected asylum seekers, SV has considered that there is reason to be more open than the Workers' Party has stood for. I have a concrete example from a municipality in my county, where one of the asylum seekers who has the special skills needed to qualify and integrate those who actually receive residence is sent out, and it is not possible to recruit the person on the specialist basis, as it is today. These things have to be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e651	I would like to begin by congratulating the Swedish Parliamentary Vice-President on a very good choice. SV's bulk has been given a significant renewal in this option. But in SV's case, this renewal paradoxically leads to a political outburst. My good friend Hallgeir H. Langeland and the museum guards in the party have now got a large group of young opinion groups into the group – representatives who both stand for an old-fashioned socialism, have revolutionary ideas and are opponents of property rights. It is these representatives who in many ways constitute the future of the party. SV's leader Kristin Halvorsen, however, has spent a lot of energy in recent years making the party mature for government power, and finally she made Jens blink trickery. I would like to ask the representative Karin Andersen whether the Labour Party must now clearly choose a more radical political course so that it can become relevant with a committed cooperation with SV. In this debate, we have experienced a working party that has highlighted Schjött-Pedersen's budgetary balance as the main political issue, which must be seen as far from the SV's political priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e658	I don't know how many times we're going to experience this reimbursement. Only during this debate has this topic been addressed several times, and it has been answered both by the party leader, from the Vice-Chairman and also from those to whom the specific question is addressed – and now it is to me. I am only allowed to repeat that those who have been selected on Stortinget from SV are selected on SV's program, and it is quite clear to those who have been selected. I understand that this is a little bit difficult for the Right to understand. It may be a fun thing to look at SV's men in the right as old – as young people on the outside and old inside – and that we in SV may have had a tendency to think that young people on the right are also very old when they take up politics. But we get to leave things like that, I think, and start discussing politics. The starting point for SV to have so strongly invited to cooperate with other parties is that we want to see through to our issues, as far as possible SV policy, just as I expect Right wants the most right-wing policy in the cooperative constellation they are in now. It is possible that the Right and Christian People's Party will become more conservative or more liberal together with the Advance Party, it remains to be seen. We hope that doesn't happen. We're going to challenge the Workers' Party and the Center Party and so far the Christian People's Party to cooperate with us on our matters, and I want to see through to it, of course. Part of the political debate is well to put its stamps. The point is that we're all elected to the Stortinget to get the most currency back to the voters who voted for us. We in SV realize that we're not going to get 50 pst. by the votes, at least not in the foreseeable future, and then we have to work with others to get it done. So the political breakthrough we want to get, we'll have discussions with the other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e667	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e670	The Government Declaration and also the Sem Declaration contain many formulations to which most people can subscribe. But it is also clear that there are significant changes in the political platform that the Bondevik government has, compared to the central government platform. An example of this is that there is now a greater focus on individuals and less emphasis on the community; now there is a greater emphasis on the launching of competition and on a new course for the country's ownership policy. However, what becomes more interesting than the wording of different documents and declarations is what policy this will result in. The first clear point of what policy this government will pursue is when the supplementary budget is made later in the fall. It's going to be interesting to see if it's going to happen, for example. are the Community's top priority tasks or tax provisions. Both the document from the Sem negotiations and the statement held in Stortinget on 23 October of this year reads: ‘A good industrial policy is also a good rural policy. Important district industries such as fisheries, aquaculture, agriculture and tourism contribute to the creation of value added, scattered housing and good living conditions throughout the country.» I'm going to write this down. But I want to emphasize that it is only with a good district policy that we can use the many and large natural resources in our country. Large areas of natural resources are scattered around the country, often in areas with little bustet. If we are to be able to use natural resources, we need to invest in development across the country. It is also worth noting that several of the smaller nationalities are high on statistics of high export value countries. These counties also report well on statistics on large-scale production countries per year. built-in. Good rural policy and investment in the districts are basic investments to exploit the potential for development in natural resources, and to maximise our value creation in mainland Norway. One of the pillars of district policy is good communication. The distances in Norway are large. This is seen as a requirement for the infrastructure. Many enterprises in the country have unreasonably high distance costs because communications are not good enough. Bad roads, high ferry costs and many and high toll rates lead, for example, to: to increase the cost to business. It will be difficult to be competitive when distance costs are high. The Bondevik government says it will strengthen the transport effort and increase roadways. The government will also invest in better public transport. Roadways and collective solutions are important areas of activity. The centre party has long said that we need to look at the different challenges facing different parts of the country. Cities and agglomerations face major challenges in improving public transport. Public transport by bus and/or rail could relieve some of the pressure on the road network. In other parts of the country, collective provision is almost absent. Then your own car will be the only option for passenger transport. And when road transport is also the only supply for goods transport in many places, road construction in the districts should not be a priority. The Bondevik government has pledged fees for aviation. What this government says is nothing about is the airport structure. When the short-range network was built up some decades ago, it was a revolution in the transport area of large parts of the country. Therefore, it is no wonder that many now react when the media can tell that the Aviation Administration has gone through the airport structure of the Short Path Network. The conclusion implies that the future may be uncertain for many of the airports. The mission was given by the Stoltenberg government, and the mandate from the government was to assess different strategic approaches over the next bidding round. It was also an opening to assess the closure and merger of airports. Following the recommendations of the Swedish Aviation Agency will greatly reverse many districts. The centre party believes it must be established transport improvements in other modes of transport that do not cause disadvantage to the regions concerned before the debate on aerodrome closure/co-appropriation begins. This is not the situation today, and the new government should notice. I have recorded that the Bondevik Government's Declaration of Accession states that information and communication technologies provide new opportunities to bring the whole country into operation. That's what I'm writing, but – and it's a big one but – then this technology must be an offer to the whole country within a reasonable time. If this technology is developed into the most central and populous parts of the country first, and then, a little after a while, maybe being built into the rest of the country if it pays off, this technology will not be an incentive to use the whole country. We have to go in with government funds, like that, for example. is done in France. The French government did not entrust market forces with directing anyone to broadband. Nor should we do so here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e695	It is gratifying that school and education were one of the most central themes of the campaign. It was therefore very much hoped for the Bondevik II Government's declaration of work, the Sem-Declaration. In short, I believe that this statement can be described as follows: there are cuts and glues of good will from three party programmes. The strenuous political exercise will be the concreteisation and inclusion in the budget of the policy objectives set out in the declaration. We can state after the debate these two days that there is little willingness to address such a concrete approach. There will be a balancing debate, says Right, when we challenge them in politics. We also see that several of the points in the Sem-Declaration are mainly about actions that the Stoltenberg government was implementing. Examples include the introduction of literacy tests, upgrading of school buildings, ICT investment in primary and secondary education and the improvement of student funding. We know that the teachers are a professional group that is subjected to enormous pressure from several teams. The important role of teachers in school may be reflected in today's problem of recruiting teachers. To meet the challenges facing the school, we politicians depend on creating a good working environment with teachers. The opinions of our new state council on inexhaustible teachers cannot be said to strengthen professional pride. An ongoing hacking of the teachers' poor expertise is a somewhat constructive change strategy. I agree with Clemet that our teachers should have a professional immersion in their teaching subjects, and that our ambition is to make teachers the best possible, but I must say that I think the government begins at the wrong end. First, we need to improve the recruitment of teachers. The Stoltenberg government started work on raising the status of teachers, including: through an increase of NOK 50000. This is about returning the status of teachers and making the profession more attractive. We do not disagree with the requirement that teachers should have a professional depression, but we disagree that new rigid rules should be introduced. We must also decide on the content of teacher training. The size has repeatedly introduced new requirements, which in turn create little room for flexibility. The Labour Party was given a majority in the previous ageing period to remove mandatory requirements for English education, against the Right’s votes. The Sem declaration calls for more freedom for each school, while the requirement for depression alone has the opposite effect. We must not raise professional knowledge to a one-sided debate on the number of weights at the expense of pedagogical abilities. Educational qualities are also a prerequisite for good learning. The ability to disseminate professional knowledge, i.e.: the educational capacity is equally important. We know that today's school requires different types of depression, not just in Norwegian and mathematics. This means that we have to organize school day in another way by dividing classes, putting teachers together in teams, and even thinking about more freedom and flexibility. Saying back bad teachers, we can actually do it today as well. As politicians, therefore, we need to make a choice about which subjects are important for teacher training. The working party wants teacher training that is more flexible and that makes students more motivated — motivated to deepen their interest in the subject and, not least, gives the opportunity to influence the content of their own education. We know that good learning is essential for our children to have a platform of knowledge on which they can build. It places great responsibility on the teachers and on the parents, but it also places great responsibility on us as politicians. At the end of the day, I want to praise the Bondevik II government for including it in the statement that the primary public school should be free of charge. That means that at least at that point, we agree to remove excesses in school. A good public school for all should also be a support bar in the coming time. Oslo has previously been brought forward as an exhibition window for the Right, but I hope that the cuts we see now in the Municipality of Oslo will reflect what we will see in the Stortinget when this bourgeois government presents its alternative state budget in a few days.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e716	In a rapidly changing society, anchoring values is important. Such a fundamental value is respect for what is different. Our cultural diversity increases as a result of outside inspiration – linguistic, cultural and social. Art and culture have a self-esteem and are decisive for the individual’s personality and quality of life. Culture is anchoring at a time of great change. Culture gives both insight and builds bridges between people and nations. Culture involves both active participation and admiration and enjoyment. We have a duty to uphold the Christian and humanistic cultural heritage of our ancestors who have delivered us, and to bring him on to our descendants. At the same time, we must have a cultural life that gives new impetus and stimulates creativity and innovation. The co-operation government will therefore lead a cultural policy that strengthens our cultural roots and counteracts cultural bias. We want to bet on both the width and the elite within Norwegian culture. We want to pursue a policy that safeguards vitality and the scope of cultural life. Public cultural efforts are intended to provide an offer that is available to people throughout the country. The government wants a stronger commitment to art and culture in the public space, at school and at work. The co-operation government will secure its own cultural communication system in the school, strengthen the legal music and cultural spheres and invest in local and regional cultural buildings. The full range of local cultural, migrant and other minority cultures must be actively supported. The co-operation administration will at the same time carry out further work on opera in Bjørvika as an important national cultural hub. We will carry out a wide-ranging study of the challenges of merging data, telephony and media technologies. In a time of rapid technological innovation, it is important to secure public broadcasters with clear cultural obligations for Norwegian language and identity. Sport is a popular movement that activates many children, young people and adults. The co-operation organisation will facilitate good conditions for both the sport of the width and the sport of the top. The government will also have a greater investment in sports facilities that are tailored to the needs of today’s children and young people. Typing agents should be channelled to places with a high under-coverage of installations to a greater extent. The co-operation administration wants the Church to be given resources so that it can be present in the local environment and be a real distributor and cultural bearer. The Norwegian Church and other trust societies must be guaranteed freedom of action and self-government within the framework of Norwegian legislation. The government will continue the reform work with the transfer of greater responsibilities to church bodies. A church to survive must give birth to future generations. Therefore, the Cooperation Administration will strengthen the baptismal training. For the environment and future generations, it is important that we have a new government. Cooperation will focus on resilient solutions and be more offensive in relation to climate challenges. Climate challenges need more offensive answers than the workers' party government had. Increased efforts on public transport are important in order to achieve the Kyoto Protocol objectives. The basis for a new bet on public transport is to put in its own big message. Direction is ready: Capacity should be improved.The frequency should be increased.The organisation should become more effective.Prices should be lowered. To ensure the freedom of choice for families with children, the Government will pursue an offensive childcare policy and increase cash support. The Sem declaration underlines that both of these arrangements are necessary for the option to be effective. The three co-operation parties have co-existed in the United Kingdom on measures to increase the number of and cheaper kindergartens. That policy will lead the Government further. We want to strengthen our international solidarity with those who are poor, those who are persecuted and those who are lir. While the richest countries in the world have become richer, they have split to the poorest. The co-operation government wants Norway to be at the forefront of international cooperation for development, debt relief and human rights. Also the poor in Norway are lit with a new government. This world has also increased the gap between the richest and the poorest in recent years. Cooperation will improve welfare arrangements and fight poverty problems in Norway. The government will present a plan of measures with targeted measures to help people out of poverty. Measures will cover both the economy, housing and incentives for work rather than passive receipt of social benefits. The government will not at least work to improve the quality of life for poor families with children. This is, together with much more that is stated in the statement, the policy that I am a party leader in the Christian People's Party as well as being a member of the government is content with. The priorities are tough, but the policy is clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e759	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e762	Working with politics, being a politician, is a very special job. The decisions and positions we take often have major consequences for the very many people affected by the decisions. But the attitudes and values that we convey as politicians also have great significance for very many people, in their lives. Some of the things that have made the most impression on me as a politician ever was when, in my former function as a minister of the church, I met people who were torn between their Christian faith and their gay lay, people who felt that they had to choose between two sides of themselves as it was impossible to distinguish. That's why it also made a huge impression on me to meet people who were happy and happy with the position taken by the Stoltenberg government, and as I expressed it, that being gay and being a Christian is fully compatible, and being a homophile is completely equivalent to being a heterophile and being able to live to the full. State Council Reply City Haugland has previously told the Daily newspaper that she interprets the Bible as saying that gay people should not live up to their lies. And my request to the Council of State Reply Haugland is that she can't now express once and for all – as Minister of the Church, but also as Minister of Culture and administrator of important fundamental values in our society – that being a homophile and being a heterophile is completely equivalent and must be able to live out, and that homophile in the same way as heterophile should have a full place in the Norwegian Church in the positions that exist there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e772	I have to admit that the question doesn't surprise me, but I don't think it has much to do with politics. It has a lot to do with theology. I have also met many people who have struggled between their Christian identity and their sexual orientation. It makes an impression on me, as it has also clearly done on Trond Giske. I would like to say briefly that the choices that individuals have to make, they have to take, and I have respect for the choices that individuals make in relation to their lives. I take my choices, Trond Giske takes his choices, and other people make their choices. Otherwise, I don't feel that this pulpit is the right one to go into a deep theological discussion about what is right or wrong. We know that this question is a question that at times in the Church is being discussed quite violently. Of course, that discussion is to live in the Church without me being involved in it as the Council of Churches. I probably have my personal opinions about theological questions, but I don't feel that it's right to start with an interpretation of it from this talking room.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e781	One of the areas covered by the Ministry of State Councils is the Lottery Authority. Another area that also falls under culture is choirs, corps and sports teams. According to NTB and NRK reports this week, many of these organisations in this field are now losing the chance to make money on sales of lotteries – a very important source of income for them. This is because the newly established Lottery Authority is tightening its Lottery Permit Award Code. A representative of the organizations tells NTB that it makes no sense to operate with what we do and be a volunteer organisation that believes we're useful to society. Several choirs and music clubs across the country have already been denied their applications to be recognized as a lottery organisation, and the Lottery Authority cannot promise changes according to the press. My question to the Council of State is: what will the Council of State do as soon as possible to stop this attack on voluntary cultural life? Or does she support this fight against cultural life?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e790	When I am going to answer this question, I must be so honest to say that I feel a bit of a shivering. I don't have enough things to do about the problem. But I'm also wondering a bit about the newspaper headlines lately that goes on this with those who are not so-called lottery tickets. What I can promise the representative is that I will take this up in the department and with the Lottery Authority. Then we'll see what background they have for their decisions, and how they're going to enforce this. As I said, I've wondered a little bit, but I haven't gone into matter well enough so I can give a clear answer as to what I have the ability to do, and what is right for me to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e797	I want to give both a description of reality and a greeting from a regional actor in cultural life. He said, "Never has it been so important to have an upward art and cultural life, and never have we worn so much." I believe that both the statements of the Council of State and the Sem Declaration give hope that we will be able to achieve a cultural promise. SV has the basic view that art and culture are the yeast that's going to make it bubble in society, and I support the Council of State's many foundations for why it's important. It's important because art and culture have a self-esteem, but also because it gives us new skills. In the future, we need not only theoretical competence, but we need artistic, creative, social, empathetic skills, and so it's so incredibly important that we get this in place in school. And then it's also important from a regional policy perspective. Therefore, SV will be involved in fighting for the cultural promise not only to be in the celebrations, but to be a part of it. Because how much we spend on art and culture in this society is actually a political question. We mean at least 1 pst. This should be done by the State budget. I am afraid that the comrades whom the Minister of Culture must trust do not have the same understanding. Then my question is, what is most important when the fight for the crowns is? Is it to abolish the flight seat fee and increase the defence costs, or is it to keep to the millions proposed by the Workers' Party? To put it in perspective, 300 million. kr is a tenth frigate. Then I also have a question for the party leader. SV and the Christian People's Party agree that patents on the Life Directive are contrary to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity and that it will lead to genetic modification. Does the Council of State agree that this is such an important political issue that the Storting should grasp it, and that it is not just the Government that is going to grasp it? And will the Council of State contribute to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e812	I would like to thank Mr Valle for her good words. I think there are some people in both the description given by the representative and that it is important that we have room for a cultural lift in a country as rich as Norway. The target of at least 1 pst. of GDP or GNI for culture is a merry goal, but I think it will be a long time before it is achieved. I also want to give tribute to the Workers' Party government. In the draft budget they presented, it was actually a highlight of culture. I'm glad that when we're going to start budget discussions – I'm not going to take them from here – I have a better starting point than many others. Because very many promises are not fulfilled, and we also have to find room for them, for example. to voluntary organisations in relation to VAT compensation, for which there is not enough money, etc. I'm not going to take the whole frame. My starting point is to fight for everything I've loved, and that as much of it as possible is preserved in relation to the cultural budget. But I'm also in a college where we have to take joint responsibility, and where I also have to be at the seventh and the last, taking responsibility for the promises that all these three parties have made, and the promises that the Labour Party has given, and that we are expected to fulfill. This is going to be demanding. But comfort to me must be that it could be worse if the increase from the Labour Party when it comes to culture had been less than what it really is. I'm optimistic. I also have a desire to give a handshake to many of our culturalists around the country, so they see that this is something we're really betting on, because we need it. If we're going to be a rich nation, culture is definitely home. It's one of the things that makes the nation rich -- it's not just the economy that does it. When it comes to the Patent Directive, it is handled correctly in the Government, and I am behind the way the Government puts up with it. It's a difficult question for the Christian People's Party – the questioner knows – and we have to deal with it then.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e823	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e826	The cooperative government wants a strong and competitive private business, it wants opportunities for private enterprises and non-profit institutions serving households also in areas traditionally reserved for the public sector, and it wants a well-functioning public sector. There's no contradiction between these desires. Good public services are a prerequisite for a competitive business and competition from private individuals is an important tool in making the public sector more efficient and user-friendly. However, if we are to get better public services without jeopardising the availability of labour and the competence of private businesses, we need more of the resources used in the public sector, and we need to mobilise more of the skills and work capacity of older workers, disabled and disabled people. And not least: we must prevent further exclusion from the labour market. An inclusive working life and modernisation of the public sector are therefore two sides of the same coin. Our work on modernising, correcting users and improving efficiency in the public sector must be based on four main principles. The first is that we're going to get a simpler society. It is necessary to facilitate the identification of general government and to reduce the number of rules and arrangements. I personally have a very caring son of 15 years. Unbelievably many of the 15 years have agreed to try to find out in the public utility. It's a frustrating experience, which I unfortunately share with too many individuals, organisations and businesses in this country. It's too hard to get the public to work when you need it. And it's time we did something about it. The second principle is that the interests of citizens and the needs of users should be the starting point for everything we do, and that users – or the customers that I think we can often allow us to call them – should have real freedom of choice in several areas. Monopolises are unfortunate, and public service monopolies are no exception. Real freedom of choice requires two things: that the money follows the users, and that the capacity of the offers is large enough to accommodate those who want to switch to another hospital or school, or want to move to another municipality. If we let the money follow the users, we can quickly do something about it. Providing sufficient capacity requires better use of resources, and it will take longer. The third main principle is completeness and diversity. The basic issues are the same as whether we are talking about healthcare, school, transport or research, and modernisation work must therefore go across the sectors and be based on the same general principles. In that sense, there is a need for a whole. At the same time, we must not believe that it is possible to sit centrally and find good solutions for individual establishments and service-producing units. The goal is not a fine organisation map – it is better and cheaper services. To do that, we need to stimulate the units to find the best solutions for their users. It will stimulate a diversity that is valuable in itself. Exclusion, competition and performance-based funding are natural and important elements of an overall framework. But I want to stress that these are not the only elements. Modernisation requires a rich toolbox and a pragmatic approach to which tools are best suited in a given situation. The fourth and last main principle of modernisation is that it must be anchored by employees. Good public services require enthusiasm and in-progress with those providing the services. A process in which the employees in the worst case are opposed, and at best only the half-hearted are involved, will not lead to the goal. We will therefore place great emphasis on both listening to and involving employees' organisations. Modernisation is a long-term, comprehensive project that requires broad political anchoring and a stable, predictable course. In order to ensure coordination and implementation across ministries, work will be managed by a selection of government members. At the same time, we want the widest possible cooperation with the parties on the Stortinget, and in this respect I would like to ask the Stortinget in early New Year to give a special account of the main lines of work. I hope that modernisation in the public sector will become a task for which many will feel ownership and for which all of us working in the sector will be enthusiastic and progressive.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e849	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e852	Let me first congratulate the Council of State Norman on the appointment. We look forward to an exciting and constructive dialogue. During the last and a half years, a significant renewal of the public sector has been carried out. Changes in hospitals, defence, police, right-hand education, Post and Equation Management are important examples of this. But the political parties of the Council of State have presented this work as far too little, and that it is going too slowly. It makes it natural to expect that much more will be done in a much shorter time by the Council of State Norman. Government posts do not indicate such a change, rather it was largely a continuation of the already ongoing conversion work. What major structural measures does the Council of State see as their implementation in the coming year? And in connection with this: The Council of State headed in 1991 work on the investigation «Towards a better knowledge? Public sector efficiencies». Which of the proposals that were put forward does he now want to focus on as the Council of State? Finally, I allow myself to correct a manifest misunderstanding from the Council of State of Reply Haugland. Compensation has been provided in the State budget for non-governmental organisations in relation to the VAT reform of 100 million. in addition, a double of the tax deduction on contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e863	I must be allowed to congratulate Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen on his great representation! As I have said in other contexts also in relation to Schjøtt-Pedersen, I have very much respect for the modernisation work that the previous government has done, but there are, as I see it, two serious weaknesses in it: one is that there is a lack of a whole, one is choosing different solutions in different sectors, and we need a holistic approach. The second is that the pace has been too low for too many years. It is quite obvious that work on modernising the public sector is a long-term project, and there is no simple approach that will allow us to have a more well-functioning public sector overnight. But it is important that there is a steady and clear progress in the work. And one of the most important things we want to contribute to is that the continuous pace is higher, instead of getting a shipper's taxi approach to matters. The other important thing I think we have to contribute to making the pace get higher is that we have a more rich toolbox than the previous government had and were willing to use. And here comes concepts like liberation, competition and results-based financing with greater emphasis on our toolbox. At the same time, we invite everyone else who has ideas for good tools to play it into the toolbox. When it comes to the analysis ten years ago, ‘Should you know better?’, it’s very interesting that if you read it, you’ll discover that it’s about two things. It is about an inclusive working life, and it is about modernising very much in terms of exemption, user correction and results-based financing. So what I was talking about now was actually the implementation of what we were doing ten years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e876	We in the Progress Party are of the opinion that reducing public bureaucracy is an important political objective. Through this, we can make public administration more transparent for the individual citizen and increase the influence of the individual. Of course, a pleasant by - product can be that we save money. We are of the opinion that the Ministry of Administration must be at the forefront of this work both in order to rationalise its own and other public enterprises. Administration of the state apparatus must be made as simple and as cost-effective as possible. In this context, it can be pointed out that Norway is at the forefront of government and public administration. A report submitted by the State Consultant earlier this year fully substantiates this. And neither is the new Council of State, as was said in the previous exchange of lines, familiar with these issues. He has also made a report, NOU 1991:28, which is very exciting reading and with many exciting suggestions. In its Declaration of Accession, the Government talks about the modernisation of the public sector: user orientation, service setting, efficiency, resource release and concentration around the core public tasks. This sounds like it was supposed to have come from the Progress Party program. And the council's speech might as well have been picked up from there. It's nice. But what can we actually expect? What concrete measures will be the first to be seen when the Council of State is now running out of its work? When will the first concrete proposal on rationalisation, on efficiency, savings and modernisation come, and what will it be? In the exchange of lines with Schjøtt-Pedersen, the Council of State was involved in this, but I felt that the answers were very little concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e888	I first want to comment on a language that I think might be a little unlucky in relation to the modernisation work, and that's the tendency to put similarities between public bureaucracy and public employees. Getting something done about public bureaucracy is an important part of modernising work, but we must not create the impression that the 700,000 public employees we have in Norway are bureaucrats. The vast majority of these are people who work out with first-line services in relation to users, and there is no point in getting people out who provide services to the population. Just to have said that initially. It is clear that it would have been very tempting to say that tomorrow and next week and then the week we will come up with a series of specific individual proposals. I would warn against this kind of approach, because modernisation must not be a process in which we are looking for symbol projects. It must be a completed, long-term line. And one of the things I think has been a weakness in the whole modernization work is that you've been too eager to make brands and too little concerned with totality and fundamental reforms. Obviously, we're coming back with a lot of concrete things. Some of them are going to come very quickly. In the statement that I hope I can be allowed to give already in January, I hope that we will also go much deeper into the matter. But I don't want us to rush to the point where it's more important to do something than do a good job, because the last thing is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e897	Public service agencies have become one of the new slogans in the modernisation of the public sector. I have been so lucky that I have been doing this since 1992 as rapporteur in a municipality. The public service offices are still in existence. I have also been establishing public service offices in the smallest communities in Finland, and I have seen that the establishment of a public service office has many aspects and many problems. In my opinion, the biggest bend in establishing a public service office has been the lack of willingness of state agencies to participate. I have experienced that we have had small kings who have been sitting in a directorate or at county level and have thwarted what the Stortinget and the government have said about the establishment of a public service office. It has destroyed too many good solutions around and actually led to many public service offices going doll, because they have given up fighting so powerful opponents. This applies not only to the willingness to find good solutions, but also to the lack of willingness to use resources. My question to the Council of State is therefore as follows: Will the Council of State ensure that the state budgets are fully involved in the establishment of a public service office? Secondly, will the Council of State ensure that the public service office is a renewal and an improvement in the services of the people of Norway, and not a decline, which we see today's trend?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e911	Let me start by stressing what's in what I said about the main principles. One of the main principles is that the needs of citizens and users must be decisive for the whole way we design the public sector. Even with regard to the involvement of state agencies around it, this government will make it very clear that it is not the interests of the authorities; it is the interests of the users that must be crucial for the organisational solutions we choose. When it comes to finding good, user-friendly organisational solutions, I also want to remember what I said about wholeness and diversity. I think public service offices in many contexts are a very useful way of organizing things, but we don't have to take one tool there and say that it should be pulled down all over the public sector, whether it works well or not. So we have to find a variety of solutions. In many places, public service offices can be a very favourable way to do it; in other places, it is not so beneficial, but it is essential that we find an organisation that starts with the needs of users, and focus on it and do not focus on getting a fine organisation map or on caring for established establishments, agencies or organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e918	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e921	The Government's Declaration of Accession states that a good industrial policy is also a good rural policy. I have no problem putting myself behind this. The districts are in possession of large natural resources and have an enormous potential for increased value creation and activity. This is a value creation that benefits the whole country. Fishing and aquaculture, which are typical district industries, accounted for an export value of NOK 31 billion last year. These are large amounts of money, and the business creates employment both in the community and in the city. The Norwegian fishing resources are the property of the community and shall be managed and exploited by the community for the benefit of industrial development and housing. Therefore, we need to manage fishing resources with a view to long-term and sustainable returns. Sustainable taxation of resources requires international cooperation and agreements, and Norway must be a driving force here. Marine mammals seal and whale play an important role in marine ecosystems. As in other living resources, the surplus in these populations must be harvested. In such an important case, there must be no emotional reactions, but professional assessments that must be decisive for taxation. It is important to ensure that we have control of the fishing resources, so that we can reap these values in the future as well. The Labour Party government has laid the foundations for good control and monitoring of our fishing resources, and I hope that this will be continued by the Bondevik government. I would like to strongly warn against hastening spills that erode the control activities needed to secure the fishing resources. In this context, I am concerned that the so-called tip phone for fish jacks with a pen stroke has been removed. There is little evidence to suggest that we can bet on increased yields of wild fish in the future. Therefore, increased value creation in the fisheries sector will be linked to increased processing and rearing. An excessive share of Norwegian marine products is currently being sold untreated. Increased further processing of seafood will provide the basis for profitable fishing industries and coastal workplaces. This sets requirements for product development, research and competence, and stimulates investment in districts. The availability of raw materials and the high level of competence in aquaculture that we already possess give us a great advantage. It is important to stimulate extensive cooperation between research institutes and enterprises. The Labour Party Government has provided the basis for a national commitment to research and development in aquaculture. Here I would like to mention in particular the effort made in relation to the Fisheries University School in Tromsø. I hope that the new government will follow up this effort, and that the Storting will gather behind the industry that is the second largest after the oil industry, which can develop into something far more. Let me also say that good transport solutions for districts are a prerequisite for exploiting the potential of fisheries and other industries in the districts. There's a lot of work done here, but there's no doubt a lot left. I think that in the future we need to see a lot more in the context of trade and business. We know that there are many districts that currently have poor road standards, and that this limits both nutrient development and housing. I am aware that there are many districts that are currently struggling with so poor road standards and carrying capacity on the roads that it costs business large sums in transhipment and in expensive shipments of the goods to the market. This creates a poor competitive situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e947	The election results have made it clear that Norway’s citizens wanted a change of government, and the voters have given the country a rise by a majority of traditional bourgeois parties. I am therefore pleased that the negotiations have been successful and that the country has now received a new government. However, this obliges, and in my view, the Bondevik administration has a great responsibility to ensure that the expectations of the voters are now met. The political basis of the new government includes:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Cooperative governance will strengthen people’s ability to survive on their own income and give them greater freedom of choice. Tax relief is necessary to achieve this.» The Progress Party has fought for a number of years to reduce tax and tax pressures in Norway. I therefore think it is gratifying to see that the Government will now also give priority to this. However, I am concerned that these promises will not only be festivities, but that they will be actively followed up in the budgetary procedure and through proposals for decisions here in the Grand Duchy. The political basis of the Cooperation Government is set out, inter alia, in: that the government wants to remove the house tax, it wants to remove the air passenger tax, it wants to abolish the double taxation of dividends, it wants to reduce the electricity tax, it wants to raise the entry point of the top tax, and it wants to increase the bottom tax. One also wants to reduce excise duties on goods placed at the border – i.e. baits such as alcohol, tobacco, etc. All this is very positive for most people and for business in Norway. However, there is no mention of the rate at which these taxes and taxes are to be removed and reduced, and this is a cause for concern. The Progress Party has, in every budgetary procedure in this House, been in favour of substantial tax cuts, and the Cooperation Government should not take over the support of the Progress Party for a policy and budget that does not have it in itself. The level of taxes on alcohol and tobacco represents a major problem for the commercial sector in border regions. It is unsustainable to cross the Swedish border only in order to be able to trade meat products, alcohol and tobacco 30-40 p.m., even perhaps 50 p.m., more reasonably than in Norway. It is obvious that this competitive situation is dramatic for the trade industries in border regions. I therefore hope that the Government will provide substantial tax reductions in these areas, so that a price level can be achieved that is comparable to that of our neighbouring countries. Flipping and reduction of fees will not have the desired effect on industry and on consumers. It is a complete harmonisation of the level of charges necessary to achieve an equivalent level of prices and fairer goods for consumers and to improve the competitive situation for business. There is therefore reason for concern when Minister of Agriculture Sponheim claims that there is too much focus on food prices, and that this is not an important issue for its citizens. This may indicate that there is no agreement between the Government in its declaration and the policy that the Council of State actually wants to pursue during the period. In any case, the Progress Party will actively follow up on this important area of the Storting, with proposals that will ensure that the population is fairer food and an improved competitive situation for the commercial industry. In general, the framework conditions of industry are also of great importance for the Progress Party. In this respect, I record that the Bondevik administration wants to reduce the field of forms and regulations. Remembering a few years back, this was also one of the most important issues for the Bondevik I administration. We also remember the results that that government could show in the area, and I think very few were impressed with that. I therefore hope that this government will now actually actively follow up its promises, so that the field of forms and regulations will actually be reduced, not as last, when it did not achieve the desired results. As far as transport policy is concerned, I note that the Government wants to increase investments by approx. 600 million. kr per. years in relation to what the Workers' Party adds to its schedule. This is well and good, but well so important is which road sections you actually want to prioritize and enforce. Norway’s main entry points, E6 and E18 through Eastfold, have long been down-priority to much less traffic elsewhere in the country. I believe it is important that this expansion is now carried out as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e969	It has been interesting to follow the debate in connection with the negotiations at Sem and the commission of the Government. It has focused in particular on the inequality in the cooperation parties’ programmes. But as you know, there are no differences that can lay the foundation for good cooperation, but that's what these parties have in common. The Sem declaration has provided a good basis for a change in course, which will be positive for many. I want to focus on some areas that, after the Sem Declaration and the Government Declarations, will be positive. As a municipal and urban politician for many years, I have seen clearly unfortunate aspects of current kindergarten policy. Many young children’s parents have a tight economy, with student loans, large start-up costs and child care expenses. There are wide variations in the parental payment for a nursery, ranging from NOK 3000 to over NOK 5000 per day. month(s) per month a child. Now we know that it is the exception rather than the rule that parents can choose kindergarten and in that way the payment rate. This is an untimely experience, and it's untimely. This is now proposed by the Cooperation Agency to correct the situation by providing a comprehensive transfer from the state to approved public and private children's households. Thus, private and public kindergartens will be treated equally, and parents will not distinguish between the offers they receive. The Sem Declaration states on page 47 of the Municipal Economy: «The over-management of the local government sector through laws, regulations and earmarked grants which are not justified by overriding national considerations must be reduced.» Here, the Cooperation Government has shown that it will give municipal politicians responsibility and freedom of action instead of detailed management – as it has been to a great extent – of everything and everyone. This will make local government policy more interesting, and local politicians can be held responsible for what they have done, not for what the central government has decided. Too often, local politicians become the target of decisions made at a central level. The Bondevik government's environmental effort will also show that – and I hope it can create optimism both locally and centrally. I registered with the Minister of Environmental Protection his strong commitment from the first day to get rid of the devastating pollution from the Sellafield plant. Large amounts of radioactive waste affect, indeed actually destroy, the part of our life base on which we are totally dependent, and it has monthly greater scope than what we believed before. It is quite unlikely that today, just now, technetium will be released from Sellafield that can destroy the basis of life in large seas in general and along our coasts in particular. We have no time to miss, and the Minister for the Environment and the Government needs support in order to get to the agreement that can stop the deadly emissions. There is no one in the Stortinget who can be disunity in this. The Government is also committed to using natural gas as mentioned on page 17 of the Sem Declaration. Norway may become a priority country before research and in the testing of new technologies that can exploit a significantly greater proportion of natural gas than is the case today under conventional technology. It is exciting to be briefed on the researchers' work on projects where the CO2 gas can be separated and used as an important resource, among others. in the production of fish feed. Yesterday there was a report from one of these research communities where they could do well to separate CO2 and be a resource in producing fish feed. So I think that both the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environment will soon get that documentation on the table and thus be able to start a good job so that we can agree to use natural gas in a more correct way. Now we have to take time to put the use of natural gas in another way, and what was previously considered a disadvantage can now be an advantage in the work. We can thus allow ourselves to get a large-scale use of natural gas here to land. We are in the 'Ten Years of the Environment', and here the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Oil and Energy will have central roles in the work to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e996	In the field of business policy, we have heard, in particular from the representatives of the Right, that the market will now be available and that public investment will not be at the expense of Norwegian business. There seems to be a driving rule to be followed carefully. For parts of business there may be a problem. In fact, both management and employees want the public to help out at times. I would like to exemplify this with the way in which the Workers' Party made its start when the supplier industry, represented by Aker Verdal, had problems – a total package that later turned out to be completely correct. It was a political craft: public investment together with industry and the market — an excellent combination in some cases. I ask myself a question about whether the Right-dominated Co-operation Administration is willing to take such measures when the tone is so clearly unilaterally hailed for the market to prevail in any case. A question may be: What does the Cooperation Agency do to remedy the situation in the island of Herein? Is that the market? The working party has clear industrial policy priorities. More people have to start their own businesses, and we have to bet on areas where we are already good. We have a policy in which to manage a coordinated and offensive instrument, develop a modern state ownership and use public and private capital in partnership so that we can stimulate more innovation in business. The main challenge is to create more values also in the continental economy. Then we get something to divide. So a little bit about agriculture. I have seen in the Nations that the State Council Sponheim has promised us an agricultural policy that is chemically free of the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. Today, it becomes clear in the vote who supports the new Government and the new course in Norwegian policy. When the Progress Party wants this vote, it is to say that they want to have an impact on their policies. In the Workers' Party, we fully agree that in the agricultural industry, the challenges are big enough, including: through the WTO, the veterinary agreement and the EEA Agreement, if we were not to have further progress party policy. In this way, we agree with Sponheim. In the Labour Party, we will continue to have an attractive agricultural industry and an active food production throughout the country. It is an important basis for a country-wide settlement and for a good response to key societal challenges. We are curious whether Carl I. Hagen agrees with Sponheim – especially in view of the vote today – and how Hagen later interprets the vote. Will he allow Sponheim to conduct the agricultural policy signaled by the Council of State? There is already a clear message from the Progress Party that this kind of play has to end. Labour demand is a challenge. In the Workers' Party, we want everyone who wants employment, much or little, to have the opportunity, especially given the fact that economic autonomy is closely linked to whether you have work or not. It is not useful to talk about doing something for the weakest without simultaneously looking at employment, and then both labour market measures and wage subsidies are important. In the Memorandum of Understanding on a more inclusive working life, there are commitments given by the government of Stoltenberg, and there are many good measures in the submitted budget. With a clear trend where we see redundancies and lay-offs in parts of Norwegian business, we believe that it is wrong policy to focus so unilaterally on the fact that an increase in labour migration of 10,000 is what will solve the problem, as the Co-operation Board does. In our view, the challenges of Norwegian business in the years to come are not met either with one-sided tribute to the market or with tribute to labour immigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1019	The terrorist attack on the United States on 11 September was not just an attack on the United States. It was, in fact, an impact on the whole of the free world and civil society. Once again, we were reminded of our global affiliation. The search light is now being put on peace and security and whether we as a nation have a system that is good enough to provide our citizens with the protection needed if there is to be an unforeseen situation in our country as well. It is not likely that developments in preparedness work have almost always taken place on the basis of accidents that have affected us, and not as deliberate choices of strategies and objectives. Therefore, Norway and the rest of the free world must have a firm attitude towards the forces — wherever — trying to distort the stability, balance and security required by any free individual. Therefore, it is our right and duty as a nation to retaliate in cash against anti-powers who, by means of terror and fear, seek to destroy societies where freedom and democracy have been rooted. For me, it's a paradox to record the forces, including in this room, that want to reduce or end Norway's commitment to the world's worst terrorists. It is now time for the state to stand up as a central and unified actor, so that our vulnerability is reduced as much as possible. The winter shipwreck along the Norwegian coast has shown that we are poorly equipped to maintain crisis management in the event of accidents. In this context, it is therefore important that the EEAS focus more on increased coastal preparedness. We need a new policy that takes account of the vulnerability of the coast and that takes care of the commercial interests and potential that are there. There are opportunities and challenges in our northern regions, when our country, for example, is. have clearly conflicting objectives and strategies related to Svalbard, the fishing protection zone around Svalbard and the unresolved issue of the divider line. Our use and dependence on the areas are despondent, as are the vulnerability of the areas. Therefore, the defence must be able to continue to monitor and carry out basic military, stabilising tasks. Maritime defence has a long tradition of close cooperation with coastal communities through aid for maritime rescue, control of foreign vessels, coastal preparedness and action management, police and customs assistance, oil protection, fisheries control and the observance of our rights in the disputed areas of the north. It is said from time to time that we northerners are Icelandic imperialists, but the fact is that the long-term basis of life in Norway is the exploitation of the marine resource base. The majority dealt with the long-term proposal for the defence in June and arrived at a structure that was widely agreed upon. But they did not agree on how much this would cost. It is with amazement that I record a few months after the big deal, when the Swedish Defence Administration applauded the decision that was taken, the Labour Party Government is promoting a budget proposal for 2002 where a total under-coverage in relation to the adopted structure is renewed. The Labour Party has clearly forgotten the role of defence as a significant security policy instrument, and that peace is not something we have, but something we can lose if we do not actively protect it. The new cooperative government has understood this, and the Sem Declaration therefore states that the defence structure adopted by the Stortinget should be implemented and financed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1034	The fundamental objective of the welfare country has been to ensure social and economic fundamental security for all, to ensure a fair distribution of value creation and to provide equal opportunities for participation and to develop capabilities and facilities. We have succeeded in doing so in Norway. Norway is characterised as one of the best countries to live in, where living conditions are more evenly distributed than in hardly any other country. A strong public sector with sound welfare offers for all citizens, together with economic benefits through popular protection, has been and should remain the main instrument of a fair policy of distribution and the fight against poverty. Because neither in the welfare country of Norway has poverty been eradicated. Still, there are groups who live in economic distress and who have not received their share of the increase in wealth that the rest of the population have experienced. There are groups of lone caregivers, groups of disabled people, of unemployed persons, of homeless people, of drug users, of long-term unemployed and groups of asylum seekers and immigrants. The poor are therefore a composite group. But in common with them, they are in an economic situation that in itself excludes them from participation in large parts of society. In its budget, the Labour Party has been involved in several areas in order to increase the benefits of the population's rights to disabled persons, to disabled persons, to disability pensioners, and proposes to reduce ownership in essential areas. The Labour Party Government also proposed to increase social assistance rates in its budget and has announced a review of the guidance guidelines. The need to strengthen the economy of the poor is obvious. Thus, direct economic transfers are important and necessary but not sufficient. 70 pst. of which at least living has no connection to the labour market. They have a lack of education, poorer health, lower life expectancy and poorer housing conditions. A good public school for everyone and a strong public health system are tools for combating poverty. Privatisation of these Community solutions will not only increase social disparities, but I am afraid that it will create more poor ones as well. Strengthening and developing measures to make it easier to work for the disabled, for the disabled, for single dependants and for immigrants becomes important in combating poverty. Then it becomes fundamentally wrong to reduce labour market measures, as the parties in the Bondevik governments have repeatedly done. Labour market measures are precisely the bridge that brings many long-term unemployed back to work. Children carry with them their social heritage. Thus, children of poor parents tend to become poor themselves when they grow up. Therefore, if poverty reduction is to be effective, it must be based on measures to break social heritage. Therefore, reasonable kindergartens, school leisure schemes, homework projects are so important. Therefore, free school with free schoolbooks and camp stays etc. such important measures. Not following up these things will be a big step backwards. That children grow up in poverty, no one can accept in a country as rich as ours. And we can do something about that. But I am afraid that the policy announced by the Bondevik government will lead to greater differences and thus break the policy of distribution that has underpinned our welfare society. Greater privatisation of the health sector, of the education sector and of municipal care services are changes that will affect those who initially have the worst economy. There are changes that are not suitable to break the social heritage of the poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1050	I will address the major challenges that politicians in this Chamber face in terms of a future agricultural policy in our country. This is the most pervasive industry we have, and very many laws stem from the interwar period, without having been changed in particular. I therefore think it is remarkable when our new Minister of Agriculture wants to pay attention to food prices. Much of the Norwegian people are concerned about and ask themselves why we are going to have the highest food prices in Western Europe, along with a few other countries. Why does it have to be like this? I am very pleased that our Prime Minister in his declaration of accession focuses precisely on food prices and promises that price differences between Norway and our neighbouring countries will not increase, but will be reduced. In fact, the Progress Party and the Norwegian people are curious about the instruments the new government is going to use to reduce these differences. We know that former Minister of Agriculture Bjarne Håkon Hanssen started a job. He was crazy and focused a lot on the last stage, on the food chain, and got a price policy in the Norwegian people, when halving the food tax from July this year, that was more active out there comparing food prices. The Norwegian people received good help from VG's food barometer, which has constantly followed developments in the eyes of the argus. But this is not enough. What needs to be done is for the government to examine all stages of the food chain from soil to table. ECON, NILF and other research institutes have gone through all stages of the food chain and have seen that there are significant savings gains in the second stage if the Government is interested in doing something about it. We all know that there are difficult climatic conditions in Norway, and that we cannot get the best price compared to other countries further south of Europe, to take this example. But we can do a good job. Why should the agricultural sector be protected from competition law? Why should it be governed by a 40-50-year-old law called the Sale Act? In every annual report, the Competition Authority says that if competition rules and competition laws were allowed to apply internally in Norway – we can, of course, have a customs wall on food – prices would go down. Instead, those who have run this country until now have not been interested in focusing on this. In the election campaign, I explained to the people, especially in my own country, that it is possible to significantly reduce food prices. Why should a farmer in Värmland or in Bohuslän win initially, even if climatic and topographical conditions are comparable? Why does it have to be like this? Why do we need to have concessional limits in livestock farming? Why do we have to have a trading law that is such that when we get an overproduction, for example. on pigmeat, is it added to a freezer or regulation warehouse to keep prices up in Norway? And then we're going to have a huge profit, as we got in 1999, when 1 900 tons of good beef and pig meat were dumped on the international market – the pork meat went all the way down to 3 pounds and the beef meat was 7-8 pounds – while prices were kept in Norway. I agree with the Competition Authority that it would be best to sell it cheaply in Norway so that Norwegian taxpayers could get a little more of their own money. Then we didn't compete on the world market with the poor countries of the Third World trying to get foreign currency and build up with real competition in the food sector. So we're helping the 10-12 billion class with one hand, while we often refuse to buy the products with the other, or compete with the third world countries because of our subsidy schemes. That, I think, is a poor policy, and I hope that the Bondevik government will change this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1061	It is with expectations and willingness to change that the Co-operation Government is now taking on board. The Government Declaration, based on the Sem Declaration, shows a new course in a number of areas. I have participated in many openings of four years in Stortinget, with many comments that the Right has been in the valley of the shadows, and I am very pleased that work throughout the 1990s has now brought us back to the government offices. And once we get there, it's not least because there's been clear speech on important issues like better school and lower tax. This is an expression of important individual issues, but also reflects one of the major challenges facing Norway, the need to modernise Norway and to be at the height of a changing world. The cooperation that we are now working on is genuine cooperation where it is about giving and taking. The Prime Minister's observation that this is not the Right Programme, not the Christian People's Party programme and not the Left Programme is a very important starting point for the work. We've done well to work together, so that all the participating parties do more in this government cooperation than we would in other ways. But it is also true that Oddvard Nilsen observed early in yesterday's debate, that it was easy to define a community of values between the three cooperating parties. There will certainly be a conflict with many of the proposals. It does it when it's something you want. But at the same time it is important to stress that in some very central areas it is now necessary to manifest broad consensus. It is not least related to the terrorist attack that took place on 11 September. And I understood the leader of the Labour Party, Thorbjørn Jagland, so earlier in the debate that he just wants to manifest the broad consensus in the fight against terrorism. The terrorist attack on New York and Washington was not just against the United States, but against the entire international community and fundamental values such as human dignity, openness and tolerance. Norway, together with the entire international community, is condemning these horrendous untruths. We stand together across political, religious and ethnic dividing lines to track down and punish those responsible. International terrorism is also a threat to Norway. Together with a global coalition of countries and organisations, we are engaged in a fight against international terrorism. This is a fight we can't afford to lose. Only through a concerted and targeted effort can we avoid similar acts of terrorism happening again. The fight against international terrorism must be broad and long-term. A broad range of instruments must be used, both military, political, diplomatic, judicial, financial and humanitarian. Now that the focus is on Afghanistan, this is due to the fact that those responsible for the terrorist attacks against the United States, Osama bin Laden and his networks, are hiding in Afghanistan and supported by the Taliban regime. The American-led military actions in Afghanistan are directed at bin Laden and his supporters. They do their utmost to avoid harming the civilian population. This, unlike the terrorists, who had innocent civilians as their goal. Both the United States and any other country affected by international terrorism have a clear right to self-defense. This right is enshrined in the United Nations Charter and established by decisions of the United Nations Security Council. There is broad international agreement on the political and military measures taken. We see a unique relationship between the world's states that gives hope for enhanced cooperation in other areas as well. Norway is also fully behind the military operations. Osama bin Laden and his supporters cannot be combated without the use of military means of power. We have to use the time needed to hit the terrorists and their networks, and we have to assume that the military action could be long-term. In parallel with military action, extensive work is ongoing within the UN, the EU, NATO and other organisations such as Norway, of course, fully supported. On Saturday I had the pleasure of attending the European conference where terrorism was the very topic. Since they seized power, the Taliban has systematically disregarded the basic needs of the population and the most elementary human rights. In particular, women are subject to assault. Both the misrule, the drought and other natural disasters of the Taliban regime have contributed to a very serious situation for the civilian population in the country. Over the last few years, almost 4 million Afghans have moved to neighbouring countries, and nearly 1 million are refugees in their own country. The humanitarian situation in Afghanistan has been serious for a long time, and long before 11 September, and can be rapidly exacerbated. Therefore, it is actively working to obtain additional emergency relief supplies before winter. This happens during the military operations. Norway is one of the main contributors to humanitarian work in Afghanistan. The humanitarian aid provided by Norway has risen significantly in recent weeks, a total of 305 million. SEK, of which 200 million. in appropriations likely to be adopted by the Storting later today. Assistance is now distributed through both the UN, the Red Cross and other Norwegian non-governmental organisations. For Norway, it is particularly important to ensure close and committed cooperation with our neighbouring countries, with the EU, other European countries and the United States. With these countries, Norway has a distinct community of values, while sharing a number of challenges, both in the field of security policy and economics. The government will pursue an active European policy. The basis for Norway’s relationship with the EU will continue to be the EEA Agreement, complemented by the Schengen Agreement and the other established cooperation between Norway and the EU. We will use the EEA Agreement as efficiently as possible and want to develop it in response to new needs. I note that proposals have been put forward concerning the treatment of the patent directive, for which treatment is requested in the Stortinget. This is the Government set up. In a European context, the EU has an increasingly important role to play in the field of foreign and security policy. The government will seek to extend foreign policy cooperation with the EU through a broad political dialogue. In particular, it will be interesting to develop cooperation with the EU in our neighbourhoods, especially in the north. It will be important to continue close contact and dialogue with the EU also as regards the development of a common European security and defence policy. But NATO will remain anchored for Norwegian security and defence policy. The implementation of NATO's collective defence obligations after the terrorist attack on 11 September shows that the alliance is ready to meet the new threats we face. At the same time, close cooperation between the EU and NATO is important in the European security policy context. The recent positive results achieved in the Balkans are the result of this close cooperation. The Co-operation Board will provide active Norwegian involvement in support of peace, stability and economic development in the Balkans. Continued international involvement in the Balkans is necessary to facilitate sustainable regional stability. The implementation of the political framework agreement in Macedonia and the establishment of democratic institutions in Kosovo also require such presence. Norway's membership of the UN Security Council gives us a unique opportunity to influence how we meet the global challenges and threats to international peace and security. This also applies to the fight against international terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1108	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1111	It is commendable that the new government will continue the broad agreement it is in the United Kingdom and Norway on the fight against terrorism. It is important that the Government further participates in the use of this deal to develop and strengthen the world-wide alliance against terrorism, as highlighted by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. This new situation has led to closer European cooperation and is likely to speed up a number of new areas, as these terrorist actions have made it necessary for the various countries to search together to protect themselves from terrorism. Norway has concluded an agreement on Schengen, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs was concerned. Both the old and the new governments joined a proposal for an agreement with Europol, which is also a contribution to the fight against terrorism. This was the foreign minister inside his post. However, it is clear that judicial and police cooperation in the EU will go beyond what both Europol and Schengen cooperation facilitate, and in particular as our agreements in these two areas facilitate. Therefore, it would be of interest for the Storting to right about the Government to also have an ambition to move on to judicial and police cooperation in Europe, if it were to go beyond the Schengen and Europol Agreements. In other words, the two agreements we have already concluded or are in the process of being concluded should not prevent Norway from moving forward and cooperating with the EU in the field of justice and police in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1120	I would first like to say that it is far more than a kind of political ritual when, both in the opposition and in the position in this area, you express the will for consensus. It is a very important reality, and therefore I think the way my posts were met by Haakon Blankenburg is important. I therefore think it was important the way in which the former foreign minister and I exchanged places, namely how important the emphasis of the community was. When I say this, it's because I think Norwegian politicians are facing a rather significant leadership task in building an understanding of what's happening now, building the understanding that it can take time, but also building the understanding that terrorism is something that can affect everyone, who can also hit us. That's why this broad international coalition is so important. This means that, of course, we will also consider measures other than those that have been in the past. One of them was now mentioned by Haakon Blankenborg, and there is further cooperation at European level. The existence or otherwise of cooperation within the framework of Schengen cooperation may be a part of a discussion. But I can confirm that Norway has the ambition to participate closely in all international cooperation, including in the very concrete ideas that are now being discussed at European level. We are just very interested in getting involved in these processes and being able to contribute to these discussions. But it is very important that we here, both on the European continent and in the world, are unanimous and have measures that make countries respond equally to the challenges we are now facing. I think it was Thorbjørn Jagland who in his speech suggested that we are now facing a challenge that could be as enormous as the fall of the Berlin Wall. It tells us a little bit about the size of what we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1129	The government is adding to Sem's document to integrate developing countries into the world economy by letting them sell their goods and services on the world market. As a result, freer imports of goods from developing countries will be opened up. This is positive and shows a recognition that a more open world, including open trade, is the best way to combat poverty and raise wealth levels for the world's population. But there is always a danger that good goals will not be achieved in response to e.g. strong national and international press groups. There are, as you know, a lot of reasons for not doing anything. But it's my hope that the government really meant what it wrote. In the first place, we are now faced with new WTO talks that could mean a lot in this context, while at the same time it will always be possible to do a lot of nationally. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs will therefore be: How will the Government work to ensure that the positive objectives of Sem in this area can be achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1138	I appreciate that the Sem statement at this point was met with such an open and positive attitude. It is absolutely right that we consider a more open international trade to be one of many important measures to bring about development in the Third World. It is true that there are three main areas that are important. One is better access to international markets. The second is systematic work for a good governance in developing countries. The third is not least development aid, where the Government also has high ambitions. When these three factors come together, I think it's going to be possible to solve what's a major challenge on the international stage, namely to bring about better economic development in the Third World. With regard to the specific follow-up, it is absolutely right that what is stated in the Sem Declaration should also be implemented. We'll explain that to Stortinget. WTO negotiations will begin immediately – in fact, it is not long before that. A number of grips were explained by the former government in this area. I would like to discuss whether it is necessary to come back to Stortinget with a further statement before we meet in Qatar. But Höglund can be absolutely certain that this part of the Sem statement is really going to be taken seriously, here and in other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1145	I really want to start by congratulating Jan Petersen as Minister for Foreign Affairs. I'm aware that for a while he wanted a different position, but it looks like he's so comfortable that it has to be allowed to say it from the Storting's pulpit. I am also pleased that the Government is prepared to comply with the proposal submitted by the SV and the Central Party, which concerns the wholesale treatment of the Life Patents Directive. But then the harmony ends. There needs to be a very comprehensive discussion of what is working in the fight against terrorism. Several speakers today have pointed out that on September 11th, perhaps the new threat picture facing the world went up too many more than before. On the SV side, we've been concerned that the old way of thinking about military power does not work in relation to what is really the danger after the end of the cold war. It's terror against, for example. oil installations in Norway, there may be environmental disasters, but there is also the vulnerability of a modern society, especially if you are exposed to actions where someone is willing to put their own lives into action. Then the question is, what is the effect on this in the short and long term? If we now carry out extensive acts of war in Afghanistan, where it is soon no longer possible to bomb, when are these actions in case of success, and when can we say that we have won a battle against terrorism? I don't think I can ever be. At the same time, these acts of war can cause a severe humanitarian disaster in the wake of this. It's not new, it's been there before, but it can accelerate. In this situation, the humanitarian disaster can increase the basis for recruitment to terrorism, and not the opposite. This terror may be trained or aroused from Afghanistan, but is in the case of cells that may be scattered around in very many other countries. Is the government prepared to assess a bomb stop to obtain humanitarian aid, so as to make sure that it is not set up to increase the basis for recruitment to terrorism?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1156	Thank you for your nice greeting – but I agree with Kristin Halvorsen that it is time to get the discussion going, and at that point I think we actually both agree and some disagree. What I would like to make quite clear is that it is a very serious, quite concrete international situation we are in, this is not a seminar, this is something that needs action now. That is why Norway has been so clear in its support of the actions that are now taking place, and that is a clarity that I am most closely associated with and will go on. I think it's absolutely vital that we also have these military operations to just hit bin Laden and his networks. It is the Taliban regime that is holding its hand over him, and hence the military targets that have now been picked out. However, I fully agree with Kristin Halvorsen when she stresses that the humanitarian situation is not something that was created on 11 September. It's very serious, and it's been for a long time. Then it's the strange paradox that it's just the situation we're in now, which has made the world community more aware of this than it's been before. And as we come back to in later matters, it is now a significant will in the world community to also assist. When it comes to the issue of bombing, I would not be able to recommend it, simply because it gives the Taliban and bin Laden the opportunity to regroup, to keep the battle going any longer, and it will be very much to the detriment of the civilian population and will counteract the need to resolve the humanitarian disaster. We're sorry, we have to keep the pressure that's now on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1167	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1171	As a new representative, it was with excitement that I looked forward to these two days of debate, and it is with some joy that I also see and hear a mutual and unison agreement in relation to the poverty problem we are facing here in Norway, alongside the general and expected positioning of the parties here in the staging room – and to the extent that mutual wishes for happiness also exist. Today several thousand Norwegian children live in families most of us would characterize as poor. The income of the household is far below what most of us have at our disposal. Developments also in Europe and elsewhere show that the losers remain losers and continue to lose. The gap between those of us who already have a lot, and those who have little, is getting bigger. They with the least, wear the most. The State budget proposal of the Stoltenberg government makes more promises visible to this group, including: The focus on kindergartens, getting people in work or education, a free school and not least the efforts now proposed in the housing sector. The proposals contained in the government's proposal for a State budget on the prob lems of medicine and health care also benefit those with the least benefit. Thus, the increase in the child allowance for old-age and disability pensioners and the right of single-parents with disabled children to benefit from child care, while at the same time increasing the level of aid, are highly targeted measures against the poorest families of children. Finally, the increase in the allocation of special labour market measures for people with disabilities is very important in order to increase the number of active workers at a time when reemployment may appear to be more difficult. But poverty in Norway is not a fixed size. The political debate should therefore not be a poll on who is the highest in terms of the size of social assistance. The restoration of confidence in all of us politicians, regardless of the party, depends on the fact that we can do something together now about the poverty problem. I am afraid of a political future in which Community solutions are weakened in favour of, among other things. extensive tax havens for the richest of us. Such wild political development has only one historical experience: it creates greater differences and the poor become poorer. We're going to get more social welfare issues. The Action Plans, ten-point lists, Document No. 8 proposals and other good measures the overall political Norway now seems to want to promote, must not forget the perspective that the number of beneficiaries of social assistance in Norway now needs to decrease. Therefore, the government’s warning of a plan of action against poverty should first and foremost settle the imbalance of distribution within the notified tax jurisdictions. Nevertheless, in our forthcoming work here on the Grand Duchy, we should all be able to gather on a common economic boost with a view to the social welfare of families with children who are now clearly below the poverty line. The alerted review of social assistance rates and the need for an increase signalled by the Stoltenberg government's budget proposals should mean that we can gather on a common good promise. We can afford that. Actually, we can't afford not to. It's tempting to say that before we give ourselves more tax lighter, cheaper alcohol, or cheaper air tickets for that matter, we should take this job first. I cannot, as a politician, have more stories about children who do not dare go to school because they do not have the equipment that other children have, or about mothers who do not meet the most basic needs of their children in terms of both food and housing, or about living conditions that each of us would not offer their own children, and especially the shelters in the big cities. The poorest families of children, especially single-parent families, can easily be identified. These can also be easily helped. We know who they are. They're waiting for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1190	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1193	Both the last government's throne and the new government's declaration have provided unreserved support for the US warfare in Afghanistan. There have been calls for harmony several times from this pulpit. But some of us have to put us out of that relationship. This applies not only to SV's bulk group, but to 40 pst. by the population of our country, according to a poll in Dagbladet today. What are those 40 psts? can't stand with the government if? Yes, we cannot accept that violence against innocent Americans should justify violence against innocent Afghans. We can't accept a world where the eye-to-eye principle is to be given advice, because it makes an entire world blind and leads us into new accidents. When the world’s richest country bombs the world’s poorest, it does nothing to counter the terrorist threat. On the contrary, it makes societies in the West even more tempting. Violence is not exterminated by violence. The only way to create peace and stability in the world is through a transformation of the West's foreign policy and economic policy that escapes the iron grip of the rich world on the poor, and facilitates development on its own premises and social justice in the developing world. A cautious beginning of such a conversion may, for example: recognition of a Palestinian State. It may be indebted, and it may be to abandon the requirement for an extension of the free trade system in the WTO and rather accept the requirement that now comes from many developing countries, of a revision of the previous WTO round. Norwegian support for the war has been unreserved. Regrettably, no reservations have been expressed since it became clear that there are now significant civilian losses in Afghanistan. We know that US bombs have killed U.N. miners, that they have hit residential areas and hospitals, that they have hit food stores. We also know that the United States is using class bombs, despite the fact that human rights organisations have repeatedly condemned the use of this weapon. Those who are killed in the bombings are not the only victims. A major humanitarian disaster is under development. We know that the destruction of infrastructure, of hospitals and food stores, of bridges and roads, eventually kills even more people than the bomb itself does. It is incomprehensible to me that someone in the name of democracy can support this. Our new foreign minister, Jan Petersen, was recently in Rome and also demonstrated there – in this case with the Italian Prime Minister Berlusconi. The same Berlusconi said a few weeks ago that this is a confrontation between civilizations, and that we had to be aware that Western civilization is the Islamic superior. I get involved with forces that stand for such a vision. We don't want to choose the page for Bush or for bin Laden. Instead, we will choose a third position: we are on the side of the victims – the victims on both sides – and against the perpetrators on both sides. That's why we demand that the bombings be stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1204	We all want a living local democracy in this country. It was – as far as I understood it – clearly expressed by all the parties in the election campaign. There was also a lot of promise on behalf of the municipalities. It would be better and more kindergartens, lower parental pay, better schools, the elderly package would be followed up, there would be more money going on, etc. Words like lower, worse, and unfortunately, were not used in this context. Fair enough, but it requires follow-up. In the statement of the new co-operation administration, we read: «The public welfare schemes depend on the local economy. The government will strengthen the framework of the municipal sector during the period, increase municipal autonomy and facilitate efficiency.» Again: okay enough, but it requires follow-up. Because that's now we're at the heart of the matter. There are constantly new reforms of different kinds from big business and government. There might be a lot of right and important in that. But they often come to the municipalities without being covered by funds. So they are not fully financed. It's serious. The citizens do not get the service they should have – and the big business and government have created expectations. In addition, everyone loses confidence in people who don't keep promises. This is also the case in the relationship between local politicians and citizens, because local politicians are the ones to implement the measures with too few funds. It's a hopeless task and very serious for local democracy. There will be a few who will be involved in local policy whenever the main task is to distribute cuttings as painfully as possible. On TV yesterday, there was just one entry about a lack of consistency between tasks and funds for the municipalities. The feature was from Troms, with a Christian People's Party rapporteur at the head, but the example might as well have been from e.g. Upland. The new municipal minister has indicated that it is now the time of the big cities. Of course, the Central Party wants people in the big cities to have a good service offer, but there are unsolved tasks across the country. Equivalent offers may not depend on the postal address. And the mayor doesn't think it's right to take from the little ones and give to the big ones. Moreover, the co-operation administration has a strong belief in the outsourcing of public sector services. It must provide savings and better service, but it can also create differences and uncertainties. Thinking that you can save a lot of money is also a distrust of those who actually work in this sector. Finally, we hope that the new government will follow up its promises, so that the whole country can have good welfare arrangements and equivalent offers. People deserve it, and the Center Party will make sure it's not forgotten.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1235	The Sem Declaration contains signals of a better environmental policy in some areas. There is a transition to more sustainable energy production, to bet on public transport, and there are some ethical issues about the use of genetic engineering. However, with regard to one of the main actions of environmental policy, the Sem Declaration is defensive and disappointingly weak. The government states that the principle of green taxation will continue to be applied in environmental policy, but that is all it does. While the Government's vision of large tax reliefs is embroidered across several pages, there are few signs in the Sem Declaration to put tax policy in a more environmentally friendly direction. Our view is that a green tax conversion is necessary in order to create more sustainable development, and that the main steps in it must be to shift taxation on labour and capital over to taxation on consumption and pollution. Unfortunately, the tax changes in the Sem declaration go in the opposite direction. It is not to turn in an environmentally friendly direction when the Government will reduce the consumption charge on electricity. Norway already has the lowest electricity consumption charges in the Nordic countries, and of course the highest energy consumption. It is also not good environmental policy to remove the fee on the least environmentally friendly form of travel, namely the flight of passengers. Green tax reform is not just about taxes and taxes. It is also about removing subsidies. Therefore, it is a serious step in the wrong direction when the Christian People's Party accepts that the gas power plant to be built in connection with the Snow White project in Finnmark should be subsidized by DKK 1 billion. The gas power plant planned to be built on Snow White emits very little less CO2 than one of the planned plants of Natural Power in the West. I have great respect for the election that Kjell Magne Bondevik made when, as the first prime minister in Norway's history, he went off on an environmental matter in the spring of 2000. In this context, it is difficult to understand how the other Bondevik government, on its political basis, can accept a subsidy of DKK 1 billion for polluting gas power in Finnmark. The snow-white project is a billion-dollar subsidy for pollution, and unfortunately it is the very opposite of green taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1246	The next speaker is Olav Gunnar Ballo. It's a small event that the spouses are coming after each other on the roster in Stortinget. - We'll have to take it with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1249	This is not a line, it's an article, and I'll stick to it. I record that the Bondevik II government is entering the hospitals and the hospital reform in its declaration of accession, that the hospital reform will be followed up, and that the free hospital elections and the input-driven financing of hospitals will be extended to private hospitals that have agreements with regional health companies. You can understand that because the Christian People's Party, which was perhaps one of the parties most strongly opposed to the hospital reform, is now being forced in a direction that is the opposite of what they wanted in ours. I'm not going to hear about it here, but I think it's worth noting. I think it has been interesting to see the articles that the Municipal Report has had about what has happened in the hospital in recent years. Many of the articles have been based on Sintef Unimed figures on the development of the hospital sector. An article on 19 October last year states that ‘money is not spent on health cows’, simply based on figures from the different counties on who spends most on the hospital sector and who uses the least. To the extent that there is some agreement, the queues are probably as long as they have been used most in the hospital sector. When the Bondevik II government aims to reduce taxes and charges, reduce expenditure growth, and then choose solutions in the hospital sector that only work cost-effectively, it is remarkable. I would like to advise the Prime Minister – via the President – that he is reading the Municipal Report of 18 October this year. At the top of page 11 it is said that hospitals are ‘counting a gigantic deficit’. We are talking about the order of SEK 1.3 billion. Whether it is random or not, I do not know, but further down on the same page it says that in the case of hospitals, ‘the efficiency has gone too far’. What happens is that poor municipalities are forced to put many patients into hospitals, simply because you can't take care of hospital care in a good way. They cannot be properly offered within home-based care, and they are forced into the hospital sector because of this. The priority given by the Government here in the hospital sector is more resourced there, which is a crazy priority, which will lead to an increase in cost growth and less opportunities to reduce taxes and taxes. I would like the Prime Minister to look at it if you intend to meet Right in order to mitigate the growth of expenditure within the Norwegian health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1260	The new government is adding up to a clear right triangle. In total, this is a scheme for increasing differences. I'm worried that we can get a society with bigger class divisions and a society with fewer rights and opportunities for most people. What is exciting to see is whether all the promises made by the Government are being fulfilled – many promises for the most part and, in addition, major tax reliefs. The Labour Party's policy is to create more security, justice and more opportunities for all. The Declaration of Accession also challenges professional rights, including: reduced protection against dismissal by extending access to temporary employment and increased access to the use of overtime. This helps to make employees' rights and working environment worse. A massive competitive environment is also announced to modernise the public sector. They must simplify, renew and improve the public sector. The goal is the same all the time: to make services better for everyone. However, adding to extensive privatisation is not a renewal and strengthening of our common welfare systems. This is not the way to go, nor will it mean a weakening of public services. Experience has shown that those who rule together today have faced a policy that will weaken the rights of trade unions. The Bondevik I government has shown negative results as it halved the tax-free deduction from the trade union quota. The Bondevik II government will increase the tax deduction on contributions to non-governmental organisations, but the union quota is not mentioned in this context. This is probably proof that we can count on continuing attacks on the professional rights. The Labour Party will have a society where everyone, regardless of the size of the wallet, will have equal opportunities. It shall be equal to the right to education. We don't want a society where the quality of education is determined by their parents' economy or social background. Kindergartens and school leisure schemes shall ensure the safety of children and enable both parents to be at work. An inclusive working life will increase participation in the labour market. The Labour Party wants older people to have a good care and that everyone should have a good health service. This is the very basis of the Norwegian welfare model. With the new government, it seems that today's welfare arrangements will crack, and we fear that the policy that the government will pursue means that it will be cut off in welfare schemes to finance tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1269	Throughout history, the Christian People's Party can hardly be accused of having played an important role in the fight against discrimination against homosexuals and lesbians. Appealing to this party on issues related to living conditions for this group may be seen here as somewhat credulous. But it happens that there's something good about believing well, even though its political opponents. And in the hope that it might be attributed to the loss ratio for new representatives, I take the opportunity to try. In the previous ageing period, it was documented that one in four lesbians and gays under the age of 25 has tried to take their own lives. For all those who can join the cooperative government's desire to pursue a policy that protects human life, this is an alarming figure. Then the Storting in our treated St.meld. No 25 for 2000–2001, SV promoted a number of concrete proposals to address this issue. For example, SV suggested that Homofile’s Youth Phone, a highly sought-after information service for young lesbians and gays, should be free of charge. In SV, we are pleased that in the draft budget of the now-departed Labour Party Government, a first step towards improving the living conditions of this group is being taken. At the same time, we note that it is speculated whether the Christian People's Party is putting obstacles in the way of this bet, based on the expectation that the Christian People's Party will be opposed to any measure that makes it easier to be lesbian or gay. In the Christian People's Party program, the next love is presented as a central part of the value base of the Christian People's Party, and it is established that the next love is based on the fact that all people are equally valuable. If this close love is also to be applied in the practical policy, the Christian People's Party cannot say no to much-needed measures to improve the living conditions of homosexuals and lesbians. I hope, therefore, that the Christian People's Party uses the chance to show that they are in practice for this close love, instead of living up to the prejudiced image of the Christian People's Party as a darker party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1282	If you were to say what you think is the most important thing in the world, what would you have said it was? I think I would say that it was security and love. Because without love you become lonely, and without security you have nothing, and it is so incredibly easy to forget when we sit here – possibly not sitting – in the staging room and discuss the future of the nation and the world. Then it's so incredibly easy to forget about all the invitations and visits that our main task at Stortinget is to make sure that the chance is as great as possible for people in this country and in the rest of the world to feel love and security. And then the question is, what can we do to make people safer? In the evening post on Wednesday, Line Ruud spoke from the drug scene about what happens to young people who don't have a place to live. She says, ‘Many of the homeless young people who hang here in the centre are offered user doses with cannabis resin by adult criminals in the drug setting. Adults will make young people get taller.’ It ends with these young people themselves starting to use drugs and ports on the go. We are not going to help these young people to prevent drug use and crime. We're going to spend money to help these kids because they deserve it, because they deserve to feel secure, because they deserve to feel free to live on the street, freedom to find a job, freedom to feel that they live a good life. We're going to do this because that's what's our main task, that's to provide people with security. And then we have to make a real housing policy. In my opinion, the great victory of social democracy in the post-war period is that they were able to pursue a real housing policy that was able to provide housing for people. Today, we have one of the world's most liberalised housing markets, without it leading to anything good. We're sitting with some of the world's highest housing prices on rental. And as everyone who's been trying to find a place to live here in the capital in the last few years knows, the fight is hard and the prices are unreasonably high. And then the question is, what is the solution to this? Is it to pursue a more market-friendly housing policy, as the Right now signals? The Sem statement indicates that the Husbank will be transformed to a much greater extent towards being a first-home bank. That means they'll spit more money into the demand side of the economy. They want to use the money to help people find a place to live, people who are going to try to buy something. Instead, we want to bet on a comprehensive housing policy that applies to everyone, and that can make sure that those who have the most difficulty do well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1298	The Labour Party is constantly trying in debates to be more responsible in welfare policy than all other parties. As a result of the so-called health stake of the Workers' Party, 260 000 people are currently in health queues. Sintef figures show that hospitals have received 30 pst in the last ten years. more money without having become more effective. Hospitals received almost NOK 6 billion more last year than in 1992, measured in the value of last year. Nevertheless, the hospitals only treat 9 pst. multiple patients. So it treats fewer patients per day. krone today than in 1992. Although 50,000 individuals have been waiting for more than one year for investigation or treatment in Norwegian hospitals, more than 2/3 of the billion abroad are unused. So you can ask yourself, is this a coincidence? The answer is no – it is a result of the Workers' Party's failed health policy. The policy therefore needs to be changed, and that is what the new government has set out in the Sem Declaration. A stronger organisational and practical distinction must be made between the tasks ordered and those performed by hospital services. The power structures need to be changed. Today, the producer of the services, hospitals, is also ordered by the services. What is the motivation to streamline health services with such organisation? It is not useful to talk about health reforms and at the same time to pursue a policy that does not solve the problems. The Patient Rights Act grants the right to specialist judgement within 31 working days. With 260,000 in hospital queues, one patient today waits an average of 237 days for treatment. This amounts to 174 000 years in health cows. There is no lack of provision for patients today either in public health or in the private sector. Today, there is a lack of will and ability to do something about patients’ overall pathology. From the point of view of increasing the use of the ‘Buying of healthcare’ scheme, Halden Municipality has launched the Halden project, which has as its starting point to make the most of the available services in Health-Norway via a dedicated service office. This means that primary doctors and patients themselves can get an entrance ticket to treatment services directly — without going about local hospitals. This scheme requires hospitals to deliver and the primary health service to order. If the customer is not satisfied, he or she will be able to choose another option, be it a public offer, a private offer or, if necessary, a foreign offer. This ensures patients the rights they are entitled to. This is good politics, and it's part of the Sem declaration's intention to get rid of the Workers' Party's unworthy hospital cows.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1323	The selectors gave a clear message through the choice. Norway was to have a new government, which was to give the country a new course. Through the Sem Declaration and the Declaration of Accession, the Cooperation Parties and the Government have delivered the goods. We're getting a new course. The comments after the formation of the government fully indicate that the new optimism and the inauguration have resonated most of the people. The basis of the Government is clear in the anchoring of values with which the declaration is initiated. I will be allowed to praise the Government for a clear course choice. It is important to stress that the policy of the new government is based on clear values, such as respect for human dignity, personal responsibility and freedom for individuals – to name a few. In areas by area, the declaration is clearly marked by optimism and on the ground. I'll be allowed to mention two areas, first school. The professional content of the school must be strengthened. The statement is clear at this point, and this is very important. The declaration is also clear on the need to strengthen the school in terms of education, materials and premises. The strengthening of the school is not just a matter of money, but just as much a matter of organisation and priorities. Strengthening the skills of students in nuclear science needs to come. I am therefore very pleased with the government's clear assurances that this will be prioritised. Then I'd like to mention transportation. No one should disagree with the need to increase road appropriations. Over several years, there has been insufficient willingness to provide the means necessary to ensure good transport and collective provision. Good offers depend on roads with the necessary standard and accessibility. The declaration is ready to increase road appropriations. It is a positive and good signal, which will be well received, not least in the districts. My geographical position makes it natural to draw the E18/E39 Oslo–Stavanger, a very important tribal route and one of the many roads with a standard far below what is right. Increased road safety and the necessary accessibility for persons and goods require increased appropriations so that adequate standards can be reached at a much earlier date than previously proposed. I have great faith that the Government is now taking on the task of increasing road appropriations, as indicated in the Declaration of Accession. The voters asked for a new government, and we have received that. The voters asked for a new policy and a new course, and we get that. After the unforeseeableness of the 1990s, many now expect stability and predictability, and this Government should be a guarantor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1338	Norway is part of an open and globalised economy. This has been and is a crucial prerequisite for the well-being and well-being of the society we experience. In such a situation, being a different tax policy country is, in the long run, a complete impossibility. This has been claimed by the Right for a long time. I am therefore very pleased that the political basis of the new co-operation administration has taken this inward, as formulated in the Sem Declaration and presented by Prime Minister Bondevik here in Stortinget on Tuesday through the Government's Declaration of Accession: ‘The government will therefore significantly reduce the overall level of taxation through the down payment period.’ And on the other hand, ‘... while reducing the difference in food prices compared to our neighbouring country.’ The Sem Declaration states that the Government will ‘reduce excise duties on goods placed on the market’. This is good and absolutely necessary. And it's urgent. Sweden will further reduce its taxes on wine by 19 p.m. from 1 December. In today's evening post we can read that the sales to the Nordics at the Swedish Systembolaget are now so high and the sales at the Vinmonopolet in Norway are so low that the entire existence of the Vinmonopolet is threatened. Now I believe that a worse accident could affect Norway than undermining the position of the monopoly on wine, but it should be appropriate to worry about anyone in this room too that smuggling and illegal sales of alcohol are flourishing, not least among young people, that the sale of legal spirits on the wine monopoly is at its lowest level since the war – and this is definitely not due to people drinking less – and that the Nordics are charging approximately DKK 1 billion in fees to the Swedish state through what is traded on the Systembolaget. This is a development that simply cannot continue, and that we cannot just sit and watch. That is exactly why I am pleased that the Swedish Cooperative Government has committed itself to reducing excise duties in the years to come. It will be good agricultural policy, good environmental policy, good industrial policy and good budgetary policy at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1361	Several decades of different labour party governments have helped Norway to become a country that is currently struggling with very high taxes and taxes, we have been hampered by numerous detailed laws and regulations and a variety of injunctions, bans and superfluous regulations in all areas of Norwegian society. At the same time, public welfare services have become more mediocre. They have become very expensive and inefficient as a result of the public monopoly situation in welfare production. Furthermore, increasing public resources have been devoted to increased control activities both in business and in private to ensure that all are 100 per cent correct in relation to the forest of countless laws and regulations, directives, form fields and public regulations. In addition to this resource-intensive bureaucracy and the regulatory area, Norway is hampered by Europe’s highest level of taxation and taxation. We have Europe's highest interest rates, the most expensive cars, the most expensive petrol, the most expensive air travels, the most expensive alcohol, the most expensive food, etc., etc. This is the result of several decades of mispolicy signed by the Norwegian Workers' Party. All of this has thus contributed to a strange price and cost level that today weakens Norwegian competitiveness and our ability to increase value creation, and inhibits the further development of the Norwegian welfare community. I am convinced that Norwegian business and the Norwegian welfare community would have stagnated slowly but surely if we had not now received a new political course for the country. Continued Labour Party government would have meant increasing taxes and taxes, increasing public intervention, more new prohibition laws and more complicated regulations for society of all kinds. There is therefore reason to expect and hope that the political change in course of the new Bondevik government should take place immediately. The Bondevik government must immediately start work on the reorganisation and simplification of laws and regulations, bring down taxes and taxes, liquidate public monopolies and speed up the modernisation of the public sector, to mention something. It was so good to hear Norman's speeches earlier today. I expect the government parties to look at the Progress Party as an important party to deal with in the future, both in several individual cases here in the UK and not least in the next few years' budget negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1377	The British Conservative leader said a few years ago that the United Kingdom needed a rational revolution. It certainly needs Norway too. After ten years of almost continuous Labour Party rule, Norway really needs a rational revolution. It is such a rational policy that the co-operation administration will lead. A simpler Norway, a more open Norway and freedom for individuals are for the Right and for the Cooperation Government more than just slogans; it is a policy objective. The removal of the law of opening hours on weekdays, so that ordinary people can buy bread and milk at their own request, in shops also more than 100 m2, tax reliefs, especially to those who have the least, and a full review of the form field in the public sector, are the beginnings of this rational revolution — a revolution of reason that the Norwegian people will benefit into the future, into the future of the Cooperation Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1384	Before and during the election campaign, and in part also during this debate, the Labour Party has focused very strongly and negatively on the few percentages of Norwegian school students who have chosen to start a private school for various reasons, and, if possible, even more strongly on the few pro-mills who have chosen to start a Christian private school. This freedom of choice, on the other hand, looks positively at the Cooperative Government, and, unlike the Workers' Party, chooses to focus on and use the energy of some and ninety percent of school students in public schools, of which unfortunately 20 pst. has difficulty reading and writing properly, many are ironing out because of the theoretical pressure on the profession, and the quality of the real subjects can create frightening prospects for those who in the future hope to get well above bridges created by newly-trained engineers. The right has for a long time been accused of being visionary in school policy. However, my experience from the workers’ party-driven Akershus and other adjacent glorys is that the visions of the Workers’ Party for the school have largely limited to compulsory school choices based on where to sleep at night, farm and use numbers. In this debate, most speakers from the SV and the Workers' Party have had serious problems in understanding that the Christian People's Party, in cooperation with the Right, is willing to provide significant tax relief and to put the public sector out of competition. But when the approach angle is that one penny in tax relief is just a lost and cold crown for it then presumptuous heart heat and caring part of the economy one must of course be amazed. However, I have to say that I am amazed that it is not considered positive that as much as possible will be able to handle itself. The representative, Mr Stoltenberg, said it quite striking yesterday when he stressed that the aim of the Workers' Party's modernisation is to save money in the public sector to remain in the public sector. Any savings on the part of the worker suffer as a result of repatriation, or taxes and taxes as it is also called. So finally, to a point in the government statement that must have come as a shock to some representatives, at least to the representative of Bekkelem Orheim, who in the last few years has spent a lot of time cultivating the impression that the Christian People's Party is an intolerant party. On this point, the Workers' Party has advised deafening deafness, and it may not be so strange to see the government statement's emphasis on respect for faith, skin color, ethnic background and also sexual orientation. It's an expression that the Cooperation Government has been the best in all three parties. Of course, when it comes to politics vis-à-vis minorities in Norwegian society, I hope and expect the Workers' Party and the Bekkemelm Orheim to set up and not to ride the old Kepphester. The same pious wish I will also send over to the representative Siri Hall Arnøy, who today made a more balanced contribution than what I have experienced, for example. by the former State Council, Bekkemelm Orheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1398	I have been distributed four proposals in the Chamber, and I will justify the four proposals. As regards proposal No: 22, which states that it is intended to be tested in the planned Eastern Region, there are several questions that should be asked. What's going to be demonstrated with that shooting? What should be proved or proved against? And what should the result of that demonstration be used for? Who will use the result of this demonstration? What kind of landowners have given permission to use this reason? How are the basic owners informed? How are welders informed? They fall outside the agreement on the use of the road network under the agreement concluded. Why are the given weapon types chosen? How much relevance do the given weapons types have for future use for the Region area? Is it intended that stakeholders should have this type of information set out here through the paper? You might wonder why I, a man of the coast, am taking this up. But what it's all about is there's a strong conflict about this field of fire. It's not yet funded, and this is billions of investments. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an action plan for the transfer of more freight from land to sea’. Yes, the accident in the St. Gotthard tunnel recently would indicate that the roads are more than congested, so it is high time you started taking this seriously. The short-sea cargo fleet is largely broken back and is about to give up. Proposal No. 24 states that in order to transfer transport by sea, a plan must be drawn up to develop high-speed cargo boats and ferries that can take over part of the road transport. Of course, that doesn't prevent us from having a good road network, and we need a real E6 northward, where we produce a lot and have difficulty getting the goods out. Proposal No. 25, which is the last, is in the position of the Committee on Coastal Protection; it was finished in 1999, but to this day no government has seized hold of the comprehensive document on preparedness, monitoring and control of what is happening on the coast and in the sea. It is high time that the government grabbed hold of it and did something about it. The previous government provided a message about this that did not grip on the most elementary. I was into it in my main post yesterday and pointed to the need to have coordination of what is to be done on the coast. I take up the proposals that have been distributed and hope that they can be supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1420	Steinar Bastesen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1423	A few months ago, St. Prp. No 45, Reversion of the Defence during the period 2002–2005, dealt with and adopted. This meant a conversion of the Defense and thus a new price tag of about 30 billion kroner. Unfortunately, this does not appear to have been understood by the former Stoltenberg government, because they submitted a budget proposal far below this amount. This neither will nor can the Progress Party be in. In addition, it would be thought that today’s situation in the world would give all of us an even greater understanding of Norway, among other things. must have a defence capable of carrying out the tasks entrusted to the defence in a proper and sound manner. The draft budget presented reflects a negation of the defence needs of Norway and our cooperation countries. Here it can be mentioned that Norway, through our NATO membership, is engaged by the fact that Article 5 of the NATO Pact has been triggered for the first time since the alliance was formed. With regard to the budget, the Progress Party notes that neither investments into the Army's mobilization brigades nor the costs of any new transport aircraft have been included. This will result in a totally worse defense. The Progress Party sees, inter alia: concerned about reducing the convocation of crews for first-time duty. The party of progress is also concerned about cutting drills for HV, so that only command and specialists are trained. This happens at a time when HV forces have already been called out as a result of the terrorist threat. Otherwise, the Progress Party sees the great need for increased funds for, among other things, both air, sea and army forces. When the Army is mentioned, the planned field of shooting and drill in Hedmark, the Eastern Region field, and the time-frame established, must be maintained, and both personnel and installations both at Rena, in Elverum and not least at Haslemoen must be included in this concept. Unfortunately, the unrest in Haslemoen must be eliminated by assigning the camp to work tasks according to the possibilities of the camp. At the end of a defense post — though briefly — I would be surprised to say that ‘if you pay peanuts, you get monks’. Otherwise, I am happy with the signals given by the new government in connection with express buses, and I think, among other things. at Østerdal Billags application for several routes. It must be positive that there are those who want to transport people, and in addition, without this costing anything to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1436	One of the government’s stated objectives is for Norway to become a nation that is close to international in terms of new technology, competence and knowledge. In short, this means a commitment to creative Norway. This debate has significantly linked this to research and education, which is, of course, also true. However, I believe that it is also appropriate to stress the importance of cultural policy in this context. Among the important tasks of art is to show the way to innovation by surprise and putting ourselves on thoughtful tests. Just as science needs basic research, social life needs art as a source of innovation and creative processes. Perhaps the most striking example of the challenges we face is the development of content online. This area places great demands on cooperation between technological environments and designers in the fields of design, sound and live images. We're living in a time of change where we can't uncritically rely on old structures and institutions, but where we need to have an alert look to use new instruments to achieve our goals. Cultural policy is perhaps the area best suited to developing this. The Sem declaration's signal to establish a cultural memory fund in cooperation with private interests is an interesting example in this context. The instruments we're talking about are probably not unilateral public initiatives, but rather arenas that grow up, perhaps from an unexpected turn of events. The public challenge of succeeding in creating Norway is thus our ability to act quickly and demonstrate enough flexibility to take the balls when they go by. This is where we can show our ability to create arenas, where art and culture, science and business, yes, the whole of society in general find meeting places where the prerequisites for interaction and innovation are naturally present.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1448	We are now approaching the end of a two-day debate on the languages of the throne and the government's future doers and barge. After the speeches that have been made here by the various parliamentary leaders and by the various state councils on the part of the new co-operation government, I have to say that I look forward to the work to be done. For this time, too, a Bondevik administration has put emphasis on what is involved in forms and forms. I hope at least that the new Minister of Industry is a little more effective in abolishing the form than the former Minister of Industry of the former Bondevik government was. You can't come back in a couple of years and say that what we've done in this field is to put together the forms in a book, and then you still have the same form as you originally had. It must be expected from this government that there will now be a significant reduction in the number of forms that seem to be a handicap to Norwegian industry, and I really think that you can do that if you really want it. What I originally asked to speak for relates to two proposals that the Progress Party has promoted. That is the proposal No. 12 and 13. Proposal No. 12 is about asking the Government to follow up the positive attitude of the Stoltenberg government towards the establishment of an injection room. I just want to make it clear that this is about the trial scheme that you are now trying to put in place, so that you can really see if you can bring down the overdose deaths in this country. There's a scary statistics in this field. We have to take these things seriously in order to reduce the overdose cases, and I hope now that after what has happened in recent days, and the debate that has taken place, we can all agree that this is one of the instruments that needs to be tested. In proposal No 13 from the Progress Party asks the Government to promote the necessary measures to transfer responsibility for drug users to the health service. The progress party has understood that this is something that is already under assessment, and we have also been asked to turn this into a transmission proposal, so that we can take it in the process that is coming. With this we want to turn this proposal into a transmission proposal, as requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1459	Proposal No. 13, from the Progress Party, has then been converted into a transmission proposal. The President cannot see that more people have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1464	Sir. President!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1471	Per Sandberg gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1474	Just a very short post. I would like to present the proposals No. 16–21, which is distributed in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1481	The representative Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Case No. 1 and Case No. 2 on agenda No 6, and the debate on these issues is thus closed. We shall then proceed to the items on the supplementary agenda, Agenda No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 156]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1501	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 161]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1517	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 178]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1533	This presented by the Committee is in many ways a consequence of contributions made earlier yesterday and today. I refer first of all to the speeches by Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen and from Thorbjørn Jagland, but also from many others who have stressed the need to continue the broad agreement that we have had on Norway's relationship with developments in Afghanistan. This matter is only a matter of allowing humanitarian purposes. The proposal from the Government is based on an appeal from the United Nations and an assessment of the needs of humanitarian organisations to operate in the area. There is not a single correct number for what might be the correct permissions for this purpose, but 200 million. This is what one has come up with in the previous government and in this government, and it is based on what one sees as a reasonable Norwegian effort. There is a large contribution from Norway compared to the other country. In this way, Norway clearly shows a willingness to contribute in the humanitarian field in this part of Asia. If necessary, of course, everyone will be bidden to come back with further promises for this purpose. But as the situation is today, the majority in the Committee sees no reason to support proposals other than those from the Government, because it is one based on the UN's appeal and assessment of the need of humanitarian organisations. A further debate on the situation in Afghanistan does not belong at home in connection with this setting. It should take into account another context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1546	The Group of the Party of European Socialists is pleased that we can now have this matter dealt with at a relatively rapid pace and give a positive response to their request for emergency aid. We think it's great that we can now get 200 million. kr in help, and we think it is positive that there is agreement to come back and grant even more. But we think it would have been best if we could have given more today and received support for our 500 million proposal. kr to the UN. The Progress Party considers Norway to be in a unique position in relation to most other countries in terms of contributing financially to remedy the difficult humanitarian situation that now exists in Afghanistan and its neighbourhoods, due to its exceptionally good economy, which results in a substantial surplus of the State budget. We believe that it is coordinated, heavy efforts by the United Nations and its agencies that can be the most effective in relieving the suffering and distress that now exists. One thing is to meet day-to-day problems, but it is also desirable to look a little ahead, at least include the winter we are now facing. In this context, the challenges are so formidable that we are already going to provide liberal support of 500 million. kr, which should give the UN a certain space for action. I have tried to clarify the appeals for financial assistance to Afghanistan. They're many, and they're daily. I can therefore not see that the lack of needs should be the reason to reject the proposal of the Progress Party to grant 500 million. humanitarian aid in Afghanistan. It is also important to understand that other countries, such as the United States and the United Kingdom, have taken on a heavy role in the fight against the terrorist network around Osama bin Laden. We believe that Norway, with its financial resources, can make an important positive contribution through extensive financial support for UN humanitarian work in Afghanistan. I will be able to record the proposals made by the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1561	The representative of Morten Højlund has taken up the proposal he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1564	The whole situation in Afghanistan will be explained later. Then we shall have a more thorough debate. Now there are appropriations. 200 million. kr is not a modest amount, and as it says in the setting, we are willing to grant more. In the SV's alternative budget, we will put forward proposals for appropriations to prevent war on a broader basis. In SV, we are concerned that when the Stortinget first grants humanitarian aid, it should be as effective as possible. SV believes that the presence of bombs in Afghanistan is almost a prerequisite for an effective use of the 200 million now proposed by the Stortinget. Humanitarian aid in the field of bombing is difficult to make effective. We need to get help organisations to get the best possible employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1573	In the light of the debate we have had for two days now, there is no longer much to be said about this, because we have been through many of the important issues. I just want to say a few things. One is that when the Storting now takes this matter to its attention so early, there is a clear indication of the will that exists to assist in the humanitarian field. It is quite right, as Mr Blankenburg says, that this amount has been obtained after an assessment by the previous government, which the new government considers to be correct, and also after discussions with the parliamentary leaders. This is part of a major international operation. Now it's announced the amount of assistance for over 5 billion kroner, and that's a formidable amount. Nevertheless, Norway's efforts are in line with what could be expected after the population and other criteria, and I think that is a good indication from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1580	The debate on case No. This concludes 3 on the supplementary agenda. The size has now come to the examination of case No. 4 on the supplementary agenda. [[Fotation, see page 179]] This case has not been in the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Paragraph 32 of the Rules of Procedure, however, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1600	The cause that lies ahead here is the direct result of the tragedy that happened on September 11th, and it's a consensual committee behind the attitude. When I choose to take the word completely short, it's just to make everyone aware – if there were any who didn't read the proposition properly – that this is a matter of quite enormous theoretical dimensions. If we don't do anything, it means that Norwegian aircraft can be put on the ground quite immediately, and if we make the decision that the Committee on Transport has agreed to, it means that we theoretically expose the Norwegian State to a risk of NOK 2000 billion, or, to put it in a slightly more popular way, three oil funds. Nevertheless, there is reason to stress that this is very hypothetical, because it has led to the collapse of all aircraft covered by this, and that each of them hurts for approx. $15 billion for a third party. But it's still huge amounts, and economically probably one of the biggest issues that the Storting has ever dealt with. It is not from anyone in the Committee, nor from the Ministry, that the State should be regarded as an insurance company in such cases, but on the basis of what happened on 11 September, it has been impossible to obtain private schemes. But both the department, the old government and the new government and a collective committee are set to return to the private market with these insurance schemes as soon as possible. The ministry has said clearly that one will follow developments running to see what is happening here, so that this is a situation that can last until 23 November at the most. If additional extensions are needed, the matter will come back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1613	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4 on the supplementary agenda. [[Fotation, see page 179]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1621	Then we are ready to vote on case No. 1 and 2 on agenda No 6th@item: inlistbox The President will later ask the representatives to sit down when they come into the Chamber. It allows the whippers, who have a very difficult job, to obtain the earliest possible overview of whether the distribution of their mandates is the same as it should be according to the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1630	During the debate, 25 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Kristin Halvorsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 2-4, by Odd Roger Enoksen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 5-8, by Kristin Halvorsen, on behalf of Socialist Left Party proposal No. 9, by Carl I. Hagen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 10 and 14, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Group of the EuropeanPeople 's Party( ChristianDemocrats ) and EuropeanDemocrats , on behalf of the Group of the EuropeanLiberal , Democrat and Reform Party( ChristianDemocrats ) and EuropeanDemocrats , on behalf of the Group of the EuropeanLiberal , Democrat and Reform Party( ChristianDemocrats ) and EuropeanDemocrats , on behalf of the Group of the EuropeanLiberal , Democrat and Reform Party( ChristianDemocrats ) and EuropeanDemocrats , on behalf of the Group of the EuropeanLiberal , Democrat and Reform Party( ChristianDemocrats ) and EuropeanDemocrats , on behalf of the EuropeanLiberal , Democrat and Reform Party( ChristianDemocrats) .11 , by Karin S.Woldseth , on behalf of the Group of the EuropeanPeople 's Party( ChristianDemocrats ) and EuropeanDemocrats , on the proposal from the Commission to the Council( Doc. 12 and13 , by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Group of the EuropeanPeople 's Party( ChristianDemocrats ) and EuropeanDemocrats .15 , by Mr T.Nesvik , on behalf of the Committee on the Rules ofProcedure , the Verification of Credentials andImmunities ,16-21 , by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Committee on the Rules The proposals are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The President will propose the following voting order: First, the President will vote on proposal No. 9 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 22-25, from the Coastal Party, then on proposals No. 2-4, from the Centre Party, followed by Proposals Nos. 5-8, by the Socialist Left Party, and then by proposals Nos. 10–21, from the Progress Party. The President here draws attention to the fact that proposal No. 13 has been amended to a transmission proposal. Finally, the President will vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The various group leaders have asked for an opportunity to speak for an explanation of vote. If you are a little cooperative, it should be possible for both the President and the Storting to get through this voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1672	First, just a brief general explanation of vote. There are a lot of suggestions here. In many of them, the Labour Party may agree with the intention and direction, and it may also be that we will vote in favour of proposals at a later stage with approximately the same wording. But I believe that this type of proposal needs a more responsible procedure than what can be done when it is promoted directly in the Chamber – we have committees, we have a system, and we have Document No. The 8-institution. Although we are now going to vote against most of the proposals, this does not mean that we are necessarily opposed to the intention of the proposals, but it simply means that I feel that it is irresponsible to make an exact statement in so many proposals with as poor a procedure as this type of procedure involves. We mean that whether we're in position or in opposition. Then we may get back to them later on in committees, in Document No. 8 context or in connection with documents of the Government. There are two proposals I would recommend to the Workers' Group to vote in favour. One is proposal No. 7, from SV, to provide a separate survey report on primary school. It is a work that we in any case believe should have been started, and then proposals and measures that may be promoted in that communication will be things we can decide on gradually. The second is proposal No. 12, from the Progress Party, to follow up the positive attitude of the government of Stoltenberg towards the establishment of injection rooms. It is also a very clear matter from our side. I would then like to make a brief comment on a proposal from the Progress Party on new guidelines for social security provision. Here the Workers' Party has taken initiatives to change earlier in the Storting. Those changes have been implemented, and we have through two social security settlements regulated G actually a little bit above wage developments. We will consider further reinforcements of the guidelines. We will do that in consultation with the pensioners' organisations, which is why we are not voting in favour of the proposal today, but we will consider voting for similar proposals later on in the large-scale period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1683	I will try to give an explanation of vote for the government parties. Unfortunately, I have to spend some time making sure that we all get this with us. For proposal No 1, from SV: The Minister for Foreign Affairs has said today that this will come to Stortinget as a matter. I believe this is decided in a way. The proposal should therefore be able to be withdrawn or, where appropriate, transmitted, as there have been such clear signals from the Government that it will do just that. So proposal No. Two, out of Odd Roger Enoksen. There are four consultations with KS relating to the local economy. And in addition, we get a community proposition every year. We therefore believe that this proposal is unnecessary and would recommend that the Government parties vote against it. As regards the next proposal, paragraph: 3, linked to the ban on the release of genetically modified organisms, Norway currently has very strict legislation in this area. We have a very strict authorisation system, and in fact no such genetically modified products are authorised in Norway. The co-operation management is set to continue this. We believe that it is appropriate to continue the practice underpinned, and we believe that the legislation should not be amended now. We are asking for this proposal to be forwarded to the Government. Proposal No. 4 there are many good intentions in it. We ask for the proposal to be submitted. If not, we must vote against it. So proposal No. 5: A two-price system is already under preparation in the Government. There are also some problems related to the family economy. We ask for that proposal to be submitted, for this, as I said, is for evaluation. As regards proposal No: 6, of course, this government will consider all the proposals in a regional policy context. We believe that this proposal is unnecessary and will vote against it. Proposal No. 7 there are also many good intentions in it. But the deadline is short, March 2002! We ask that the proposal be converted into a transmission proposal, otherwise we will vote against it. As regards proposal No: Eight, there's a great deal of consensus in the Great Britain about upgrading the schools with these 15 billion. In addition, an assessment is also being carried out in the Ministry with the legalisation of environmental requirements. That is why we ask that the same proposal be sent to the Government for evaluation. So to proposal No. 9, from Carl I. Hagen. It is true that when you want to give confidence to the Government, the Government is of course happy about it, not least when it also refers to the Sem Declaration and to these issues that are all based on government policy. So we don't have any trouble with it, and we're just happy about it. But I would like to stress the premise, namely that it does not support a kind of new constitutional practice where the establishment of a new government requires an explicit vote of confidence in the Storting. It is not in our intentions, but we will vote in favour of the proposal as it stands. With regard to proposals Nos. 10 and 11 are in preparation in the department. A working group has been set up to hold its first meeting on 1 November and is due to complete a case on 1 January 2002. That is why we are asking for these proposals to be submitted. So proposal No. 12: The Government of Stoltenberg sent out a proposal for consultation on the establishment of a testing scheme with injection rooms and the deadline for consultation is 11 January. The government parties believe that it would be right and most sensible to allow the hearing to take place, so that the authorities who have been asked to comment on this would be able to give their opinion. I have been informed that the Government is prepared to come back to Stortinget with a case on this as soon as possible, but we believe that the hearing bodies should be allowed to give their opinion before we decide on the matter. So if this can then be transferred to the Government, we are happy with it, if not we must vote against the proposal that is now here. Then proposal No. 13 converted into a transmission proposal. Proposal No. 14, if the resource situation in primary school is much the same as the SV proposal, no. 7th@item: inlistbox There are many good intentions in it, but we ask that it be converted into a transmission proposal. As regards proposal No: 15, there are also good intentions in it, and most of us have a goal for this. But we think it would be wrong to change today's system here, so this proposal we will ask for is sent, otherwise we will vote against it. Proposals Nos. 16–25, I want the government parties to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1719	First, the general thing that Jens Stoltenberg brought up. I can agree that after a choice it may seem as if someone is very eager to start making suggestions. Maybe on later occasions we can be a little more careful and take these into other contexts. But we still thought it was right to make some proposals, because we are also aware that if other parties would like to have a proposal dealt with or considered a little further in committee, there is of course full opportunity to propose a proposal sent to committee instead of submitting it to the Government. There is full opportunity to submit a proposal to the committee. I find that Jens Stoltenberg did not take advantage of the opportunity to have the committee dealt with the proposals that he said were to be dealt with in committee, and then we only have to take note of them. As regards proposal No: 1, we do not see any reason for special treatment of one of the directives, but believe that it should be dealt with in a normal way. I would advise the Group of the Party of European Socialists to vote against proposal No. 1 on special treatment. With regard to proposals Nos. 2-4, from the Centre Party, I would recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote against proposal No. 2 and 3, but for proposal No. 4, which is in line with what we have expressed during the election campaign. I thought it might be adopted, because other parties during the election campaign and in television broadcasts have given the impression that they believe the same thing as in proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 5 I would like to ask that SV assesses that they should be sent to the Government. It is a bit too bastant to go on these principles now, but it may also contain some elements that should be considered more carefully. If it is not sent or otherwise, I would recommend our group to vote against proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox As regards proposal No: 6, having regard to what Oddvard Nilsen said, I would recommend voting against that proposal. As regards proposal No: 7, I would say, we have a better alternative in proposal No. 14, which has something better to assume. I would therefore recommend voting against proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox As regards proposal No: 8, where the operational part of the proposal is to have a separate plan for upgrading school buildings at primary school level, it is relatively important, especially after the election campaign that has taken place. In this way, because of the operational part, which is the most important, I would recommend our group to vote in favour of proposal No. Eight. If such a plan is adopted, we will, of course, come back to the other premises contained in the proposal when we have the actual plan for consideration, and then do not take a decision on the details of the premises now. Proposal No. 9, from myself, of course, I would recommend the Advance Party Group to vote in favour. I accept the explanation given by the honourable Member. But that's sometimes, if the same things happen in many, many cases, which is called the custom. If you ever want to establish a habit on a lot of events, you have to get started on it one first time. For the time being, it will not lead to any changes in our constitutional system or our practice, but it could be a beginning. It will only be able to show progress in the future. And in any case, you might also be able to get a closer look at how Stortinget can get more involved in government change procedures after a choice. So I would recommend that the Advance Party vote in favour. Proposals Nos were requested. 10 and 11, from the Progress Party. I see no reason for that, because it is also a little important that when there are significant events happening in Norwegian society, the Storting should be able to say that it is at least a topic that we are going to examine and evaluate. And proposal No. 10 only means that there should be a specific discussion of the use of police/physical power in the implementation of decisions, as we have seen on TV, and then it should not be difficult to agree to give an instruction to the Government that it should consider it. That is what is in the proposal. It doesn't say anything about the result of the assessment. But the Storting should also be able to show the people that you are actually coming along and taking things into account and asking the Government to put it into action. That is why I want to maintain the proposal as it stands and, in fact, it should have been unanimously adopted. The same applies to proposal No. 11, which also other parties have been occupied with, and it's going to evaluate a system, and we think you could say that the government should do it, even in such a form. So we maintain it. As regards proposal No: 12, we join in what has been the plans of the government of Stoltenberg. It has been reported that test projects with injection rooms in Oslo may have to be stopped. We think that would be very, very unfortunate, and that is why we are maintaining proposal No. 12, as it sounds, and with the explanation that I've given, that's what's in place and planned, that's what's going to go on. We're not going to stop this. And our party actually doesn't need any hearing statements to have an opinion about it. Political parties cannot always have consultation opinions until they have an opinion on a matter. Actually, we're also going to be able to have opinions on our own keel. Proposal No. 13 has been converted into a transmission proposal, as the President has said. Proposal No. 14 I think is a better option in terms of part of the premises, but there should be a separate notification of the resource situation in primary school. We therefore maintain that proposal, and we want to have our own notification on it. As regards proposal No: 15, is the wording of the new rule we propose, partly identical to what Jens Stoltenberg said in Stortinget yesterday. We had hoped that the Workers' Party would now join in. I understand that it does not want the Workers' Party. We can just take note of that. We have always struggled that it should not be «around» – i.e. that the base amount should be adjusted «around» as wages grow. Indeed, governments and the majority of the population have used it to underregulate the basic amount. And if we're going to stop it, we should actually change the legislation according to what Jens Stoltenberg said deservedly yesterday, and that's why we're maintaining our proposal. Proposals Nos. Of course, between 16 and 21 we will both maintain and recommend that the Group of the Progressive Party vote in favour. Proposals Nos. 22, 23, 24 and 25, from Steinar Bastesen on behalf of the Coastal Party, I would recommend the Group of the Advance Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1753	As regards proposal No: 1, in the debate today, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has met the content of that proposal, and we are therefore prepared to turn it into a transmission proposal. As regards proposal No: 2, it is a proposal that SV can support. As regards proposal No: 3, there is also a proposal that SV can support, with the changes that have been distributed among the representatives. As regards proposal No: 4, we want it to be transformed into a transmission proposal. If not, SV's group will vote against. As regards SV's proposal No. 5, we notice that we are in a process where several parties show sympathy for the proposal. There are then two possibilities, either to withdraw the proposal, so that the Storting can use the harvest to continue working on it, or to send it to the Government. SV would like to draw this proposal in this round in order to come back to it in other contexts during the harvest and with a detailed explanation of how it can be implemented. As regards proposal No: 6, it's maintained. As regards proposal No: 7, this proposal is also maintained. Proposal No. 8 we ask for a transfer proposal. It is a proposal for which we cannot have a majority in this round, but on which we will continue to challenge the Government in the context of budgetary proceedings. Proposal No. 9 I recommend the SV's group to vote against. I recommend Amendment No 10 to the SV's group to vote in favour. Proposal No. 11 I recommend the SV's group to vote against. I have my doubts about the wisdom of the fact that such an acute situation where the police actually have to pick up children and move them from one parent to another is a situation that gets better if the parents stand at each end and go into the kid. Proposal No. 12 wants to vote in favour. It concerns the establishment of injection rooms. The debate has made it clear from the representative of Nesvik that the trials are under way. It wants SV to express its support. Proposal No. 13 has been converted into a transmission proposal. So to proposal No. 14th @item: inlistbox If I understood the Progress Party correctly, that proposal is maintained. It's a proposal that we either want to be sent to the Government or want to recommend the group to go against. And it is because of the leadership in content – not the resource bit – that SV does not share the views of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 15 I would like to recommend the SV's group to vote in favour. It's about the retirement stoppage. Proposals Nos. 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21, I recommend the SV's group to go against. Proposals Nos. 22 and 23, from Steinar Bastisen, SV wants to support. Proposal No. 24 would like to support if it cannot be converted into a transmission proposal. The same applies to proposal No. Twenty-five, which we should also like the proposer to be able to turn into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1795	Proposal No. 1 has already been converted into a transmission proposal. Proposal No. 2 I would recommend the Center Party's group to vote in favour. Proposal No. On the basis of the interpretation given by the Right-wing Parliamentary Leader, I am prepared to turn into a transmission proposal. I do not want that proposal to be put to the vote. And with the explanation that has been given that a restrictive interpretation will continue to be used and the practice that has been so far followed, this proposal is transformed into a transmission proposal. Proposal No. 4 I would also ask to be converted into a transmission proposal. Despite the fact that all parties in the electoral campaign have said that they want to continue the reform, I must note that this proposal is intended to be voted down here in the Chamber. I don't want to. That is why I want it converted into a transmission proposal. I would recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote in favour of proposal No. 6 and 7. Proposal No. 8 has been converted into a transmission proposal. I would ask the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to vote against proposal No. 9th@item: inlistbox Furthermore, I would ask the Group of the Party of European Socialists to vote in favour of the proposal No. 10 and 11. I would also ask that they vote in favour of proposal No. 12, with the reasons given here, that tests are being carried out, to be continued, and that no permanent injection rooms are being set up. Proposal No. 13 has been converted into transmission proposals. I would recommend that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats vote against proposal No. 14 for proposal No 15 and against proposals Nos. 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21. I would recommend that the group vote in favour of the proposal No. 22, 23, and 24. I would like to ask Mr Bastisen's representative to convert proposal No. 25 to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1825	I will follow the request to convert proposal No. 25 to a transmission proposal. But I hope the government doesn't let it dust away in the drawer, as both the previous government has done, and as it has already been suggested. I will not let go of that matter. I maintain the other proposals. As far as the other proposals are concerned, we shall be voting on them! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1834	We should then be ready to go to voting. We vote first on proposal No. 9, from the Party of Advancement, which reads: ‘The Declaration of the Government of Bondevik, based on the Sem Declaration and the answers to questions by the Group of the Progressive Alliance, is accepted, as the Government has the confidence of the Stortinge.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1851	President! I voted wrong. I voted against it. I had to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1858	Then the votes turn 59 votes in favour of the proposal and 51 votes against. The proposal is therefore a welcome one. Proposals Nos. 22, 23 and 24, from the Coastal Party, is admitted to voting. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government requests the postponement of the planned test shoot-out on 1 and 2 November 2001 in the new planned region shoot-out area of Eastern Europe until final financing and planning have been completed, as there are no professional grounds for testing.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an action plan for the transfer of more freight from land to sea.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative in drawing up an action plan to develop high-speed cargo and trailer cargo and ferry services.’ Here, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have signalled their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1889	Proposal No. 25, from the Coastal Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The wording of the proposal shall then be replaced by the following: ‘It is recommended that the Government follow-up of the Committee on Coastal Protection as soon as possible on 16 August 1999’.» [[CYBAL]] The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any substantive consideration. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 2, from the Center Party, taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to draw up an obligatory escalation plan to ensure that the revenues of the municipalities are consistent with the tasks.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1915	Proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Central Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 3 is amended as ‘It is recommended that the Government prepare a legislative proposal on the temporary prohibition of genetically engineered/modified food for a 10-year period.’ President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 4 is amended as ‘It is recommended that the Government ensure that all municipalities which have applied for grants to nursing homes/sickness centres in consultation with the House Bank and county councils/companies by the deadline of 1 October 2001 are guaranteed grants.’ The President proposes that the proposals be forwarded to the Government without any discussion of the facts. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party, it says: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a two-price system for electricity to households with a view to reducing total energy consumption.’ The proposal has been withdrawn. Proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the consequences of the sem declaration’s arrangements for the privatisation and sale of state ownership.’ This is where the Central Party has announced its support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1956	Proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a separate notification of the resource situation in primary school. It is particularly important to assess whether differences in ramti metal mean different offers to students and the number of hours is so low that the possibilities for schools to achieve the objectives of curricula are affected. The notification must assess whether minimum standards in the form of a minimum number of hours are required to be statutory. The notification shall be submitted by March 2002.’» The Workers' Party and the Senter Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e1975	Proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The text of the proposal is hereby amended to read as follows: ‘The Government is advised to promote its own plan for upgrading school buildings at primary school level. The plan shall take into account that school buildings shall comply with the environmental requirements of the Regulation on environmental law on health protection. The upgrading shall be carried out over a four-year period and mainly financed by State resources. The plan shall be submitted to the Grand Duchy during February 2002.’.» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any substantive consideration. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposals Nos. 10 and 15, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks that, in the context of the review of child protection law and child law, a specific discussion be held on the use of police/physical power in the implementation of decisions, and clarification of the amendments to Norwegian legislation that must be made to this law in order to comply with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The guidelines for the ordinary regulation of pensioners’ incomes are amended to read as follows: ‘The aim of the regulation shall be to provide pensioners with a retirement pension with an income trend in line with the wage growth of the rest of society and in line with the principles and objectives underlying the implementation of the income policy framework otherwise’;» The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e2006	Proposal No. 11, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The ruling asks the Government to assess a system whereby, in cases where children are brought up with police assistance, both parents are present.’ The centre party has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e2023	Proposal No. 12, from the Progress Party, is taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow up the positive attitude of the Government of Stoltenberg towards the establishment of injection rooms.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e2040	Proposal No. 13, from the Progress Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The text of the proposal shall be replaced by the following: ‘It is recommended that the Government make the necessary proposals to transfer responsibility for drug users to the healthcare system.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any substantive consideration. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The proposals are then put to the vote. 14 and 16-21, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit a separate notification of the resource situation in primary school. The notification should specify the minimum quality standards with regard to the objectives of the basic skills of the students and propose the structural and resource measures that will be necessary to ensure the rapid establishment of such a minimum standard. [[reading, writing, billing and English]] The notification shall be submitted by the end of the first half of 2002.’» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government to implement a reform with the winding-up of the county.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make practical efforts to entrust the county municipality’s tasks to the municipalities and to terminate the county municipality if a majority of the population and municipalities in a state wish to participate in such an experiment.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to agree to attempts by municipalities to assume responsibility for secondary schools whose individual municipalities wish to do so.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals to prevent the second residence of refugees seconded to a municipality before this is approved and accepted by the authorities of the municipality.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to work at the UN to start work on the revision and renewal of the Refugee Convention.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up guidelines on asylum applications so that clearly groundless applications cannot be filed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e2095	Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal shall then read as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government present the issue of the approval of the Patent in the Life Directive for treatment in Stortinget.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. - It's considered to be done. The President will propose that His Majesty the King speak to the 146th. Its opening and notification of the state and governance of Norway and the Government's statement at the Stortinget meeting on 23 October 2001 are annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is then to be voted on on on the supplementary agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e7377	During the debate, Mr Höglund put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.PostObjective:Crones191Human rights, humanitarian aid and refugee measures70Aids to human rights, humanitarian aid and refugee measures may be transferred, increased by 500 000 000 from NOK 1288 000 to NOK 1788 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-26.ana.ud1668e7505	We are now going back to agenda No. 6th@item: inlistbox
