ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e46	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each of the independent representatives 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that 5 replies be given to the members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e55	The matter we are dealing with today, the Veterinary Act and other health professionals, will replace the Veterinary Act, etc. from 1948. Work on the new law has been ongoing for many years and has been through two consultations, the first in 1996 and the second in 2000. Thus, one can safely say that it is a long and important job that is now completed with treatment today. Since 1948, animal husbandry in Norway has changed significantly. We've been given a great breeding industry, while political, social and professional assumptions have changed to a great extent. It is desirable that animals be properly treated and that the products of food-producing animals comply with the requirements for high-quality safe food. Increased attention to ethically sound animal husbandry, organic farming and international agreements also indicate that a new law is required to the maximum. Gradually, not only veterinarians are involved in the treatment of animals. We've got new trade unions, like fish health biologists and animal care professionals. The law takes account of these changes, while being designed to capture changes in an opinion in the coming years. An important part of the law deals with the rights and requirements of authorisation, another the duties and rights of animal health professionals in relation to their profession and to the groups they are to serve. It's worth noting that fish health biologists are getting their role in the law. Fish health biologists may treat aquatic animals, with the exception of sea mammals. Furthermore, the law provides that this profession is also to be able to print prescription medicines to the same animals. However, EU legislation prevents the latter from being put into practice. Therefore, the Government will work to remove these obstacles. This may be important for Norway, which has a large farming industry which, after all sunscreens, will increase to an extent. The main discussions during the examination of this case concerned § 1 on purpose and scope, § 26 on clinical watch and § 27 on public service assignment. This has led to the proposed changes to these paragraphs in relation to the proposals in the proposal. The Committee has agreed to add that the State has overall responsibility for a national animal health service. This is in line with the wording sent out in both the first and second rounds of consultations. The main change in clinical watch regimes is that the professional organisations concerned, such as the Norwegian Veterinary Association, shall negotiate with the State compensation or grants in order to participate in the watch and that such remuneration or grant cannot be determined without negotiation. The Ministry also has the right to decide that health-care professionals may be required to participate in the watch. As it is now formulated, in my view, there will be room for action and opportunities to find good solutions both to the clinical watch systems and to pay for these guards. This should ensure that we get solutions that guarantee good animal health and safety for the food we eat. A minority in the Committee, the central parties, propose that, in addition to negotiations, a dispute should be set up in the event of non-agreement. This is a completely new design in relation to private professional groups, and the majority do not support such a proposal and believe it to be an unnecessary proposal. The last change is on the order, where the proposal now clarifies more clearly that the order should only be used in emergency situations. Otherwise there might be reason to remind you that a year ago we treated St.prp. No 54 for 1999-2000 on the technical, legal and economic framework for animal health management, the main theme of which was the principles for the organisation of veterinary preparedness and watchkeeping systems. Finally, I would like to point out that veterinarians and other health professionals have a good reputation for having a high professional and ethical standard in their work. This is important at times when animal diseases have been housed in several European countries, and at a time when we in Norway are spending a great deal on farming. The new law adds the list as highly professional and ethical as it used to be, and it is an important message to consumers, to business and to the international environments concerned with animal health and food safety. It turns out that from the time we gave the setting and until the printed version we got into it, there were some errors for some reason. That is why I would like to make a proposal No. 2, on behalf of the majority of the Trade Committee and not the entire Trade Committee. The proposal concerns Section 26 on clinical watch. That's a three-part proposal, and I'll take that up. It's distributed. I would also like to point out that there have been two minor errors. It is on page 10 of the printed setting, under the purpose of Section 1 of the Act, where it says at the end of the first paragraph: ‘Section 1 The purpose of the Act is replaced by:’. It has crept in and should not be included. In addition, on page 14 ‘Section 27 The order for emergency situations is replaced by the following:’, of course, where ‘shall sound’ has also crept in for some reason and is to be deleted. How the President will deal with these minor changes in Sections 1 and 27, I do not know, but at least I have made a proposal on the material error, which concerned Section 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e91	Erling Brandsnes has then addressed the proposal to which he referred, with the reasons given, and the President will follow the advice given, on the basis of the proposal that has now been corrected. The errors made by the representative in Section 1 and Section 27 respectively will be corrected in a corrected setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e96	I think it is important that we now get a new law in this area. There are many things that have happened and changed in Norwegian society since the old law was created. New international agreements and new livestock have come into existence in production and new diseases. When we in Stortinget treated Innst. S. No 235 for 1999-2000, we assumed that there would be an agreement between the Norwegian Veterinary Association and the State before the entry into force of the new watch regime. What is a little regrettable – and which was regrettable when we dealt with this – is that this agreement does not exist. That concerns us, and that is also the reason for the proposal behind the centre parties. I believe it is important that the state does not use budgetary frameworks as a negotiating argument, because in the negotiations it is important to come up with solutions that meet the objective of the law, and then we cannot use budgetary frameworks as an argument. Negotiations must seek to achieve the objective of the law. When we propose to create a denominator to deal with this situation, it is because we do not fully see how to solve this otherwise if there is no agreement on terms and conditions by participation in the watch and by ordering public service. Otherwise, I just want to refer to the case rapporteur, and I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e109	The President will only ask the representative Karlstrøm if she will address the proposal announced in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e112	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e117	Randi Karlstrøm then, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, put forward the proposal that was referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e120	The Government's proposal for a new Veterinary and Other Animal Health Act will replace the current Veterinary Act of 1948. The veterinary challenges and tasks have changed significantly since then. Therefore, there is a great need for new legislation to address the current problems for authorities, animal owners and veterinarians. The law is essentially a professional law, and the organisation of the official veterinary services is not included, as it is in the law in force. On 14 June last year, the size covered these issues in the context of a proposal on a professional, legal and economic framework for the management of animal health. A new model for the organisation of future veterinary preparedness in three watch regimes was adopted as an important part of the process of adapting the formal framework conditions governing the veterinary system to the reality of the day. The Progress Party expressed all its comments at the time that the establishment of watch services for private veterinarians should be based as much as possible on voluntary arrangements. Nevertheless, we supported the Ministry's proposal for a permit to impose watchkeeping, but it is important to stress that this possibility must be limited to specific and clearly defined cases. We also stated that the content, intentions and objectives were not in proportion to the economic framework that was put at the disposal of a whole new veterinary emergency. We therefore added increased funds to this, because we understood that the veterinarians would not take on shifts on nights and weekends for 8-15 kroner, as they have done for a number of years. It must be reasonable for remuneration to be paid at a level common to comparable groups. In particular, the work of the Committee has included the purpose paragraph of the Act, the issue of the introduction of a duty to watch for private veterinarians and the referral to a public service dedicated to particular attention. In the legislative proposal, the purpose paragraph is not covered by the principles to which an overall committee joined in the examination of St.prp. No 54 for 1999-2000, that the State has overall responsibility for the proper and continuous provision of veterinary services in all parts of the country. The Ministry's reason for not legislating this principle is among other things. to refer to other equivalent professional laws, such as the Health Care Professional Act. However, in the area of health, users’ rights are protected by other legislation. It is therefore gratifying that a joint committee will also legislate in the new law the principle of overall responsibility by the state to ensure a nationwide service. As far as clinical veterinary watch is concerned, I have already stated that the Party of Advances is in favour of allowing the authorities to impose this in specific and clearly defined cases. It must then be subject to an agreement between the department and the professional organisation on the basis of which it is based. There must be a right to negotiate. Through negotiations, an agreement must be reached on the basis of remuneration and conditions when the authorities impose watch participation on self-employed persons. It is an important principle when self-employed workers are charged with security services, that agreements are based on them. No one shall be allowed to dictate the terms of the watch. Nor is there any other profession, I know, that has an obligation without being able to negotiate. With regard to the paragraph of the order, it is gratifying that an overall committee is going in to amend the Ministry's proposal on some essential points. It is the official veterinary service which is responsible for ensuring public preparedness for serious diseases, as well as for the control and control of diseases communicable from animals to humans. Therefore, it is important to clarify that a public service order must only apply in the event of unforeseen incidents where serious societal concerns so warrant. The Committee has provided examples in the form of comments and believes that there must be crisis situations, such as: outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease and swine fever and the failure of the official veterinary services to have rapid control of the situation. It is also gratifying that agreement has been reached within the Committee on the basis of agreements between the parties determining remuneration and other conditions for any public service call for emergency situations. The Progress Party also assumes that the possibility of purchasing services from private veterinarians is first assessed before going to the serious step of ordering animal health professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e141	After a record-breaking examination in the Committee of a comprehensive case that governments have spent five years preparing, the results are now available. It is a good and efficient law that regulates important services that are needed throughout the country. I will call the treatment that has happened, and the changes that have been made, a full victory for the professions to which the law applies, and for those who depend on their services. Let me first comment on the point of disagreement in the committee. The question is whether the Storting should act as an arbitrator. Now, as it says, it's the consequence, even though that very name is taken out of the text of the majority. If the Ministry and the animal health staff do not agree on the watch compensation, some must enter and determine it. Unless otherwise stated, it must be the Stortinget. It has been agreed by the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party. I think it's eye-catching. It's too small for the Storting to keep up. The Grand Coalition will have the Storting as its arena to determine whether the compensation is to be 35 or 40 kroner an hour or another amount. The central parties believe that an ordinary arbitrator is doing well to set rates for allowances totaling a few million dollars. I sincerely hope that it will not be often that the Storting meets as an arbitrator. Right now there is a bad mood in the relationship between the veterinarians and the Council of State. The fact that all requirements have been met by the veterinarians may contribute to a smaller need for the Stortinget to enter into mediation. Standing without services, the possibility of a strike among animal health professionals, is a totally unsustainable situation. The bill lacked the purpose for the state to be responsible for the existence of a good service throughout the country at all times. It's now in place. Without such legalisation, far worse coverage of professionals in some areas was feared. This would result in more expensive services for animal owners and longer time before sick animals could get help. The Veterinary Association has reacted strongly to the imposition of duty on private practitioners night and weekends without having a right to negotiate in order to determine the compensation. The Ministry proposed that the Council of State should only discuss the matter with the association and set the rates and conditions itself if there was no agreement. The Council of State has justified the need for this system in order to avoid overshooting the budget line. I should like to remind you that the Committee has previously said that this working party should be compensated for in line with comparable groups. Then, of course, the budget line must be allocated additional funds when needed. It shall not be such that the budget line is fixed and watch compensation is regulated on the basis of what it can afford. Now a real right to negotiate is guaranteed with an appeal body which no other professional group has. The legislative proposal provided liberal opportunities to order staff to serve outside their own field of practice. Now this possibility is significantly reduced. Only in the event of a crisis shall it be possible to use a referral. Routine tasks do not give rise to an order. In the first round, among other things, the extensive EEA sampling, which currently forms an essential part of the work of district veterinarians, referred to as the possible basis of the order. It has now been cleared away by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e156	SV supports the proposal and the proposals, but we feel that the debate around the negotiating institute and how to deal with situations where consensus is not achieved are a little unclear. I feel that this confusion is present both with regard to the proposal that the centre is promoting, and also with regard to the proposal that the majority has. The difference in a case like this and e.g. the establishment of agricultural holdings, which is comparable to that, it is difficult to see that the categories of occupations covered by the agricultural holding are subject to the same obligation to carry out a service which the veterinarians render in accordance with that law. After a negotiation, you have to go to Stortinget as a kind of arbitration, or you bring the settlement into the budgets, and the difference is that here you have an obligation to do a job. When you're a farmer, you don't have the same duty – biging or government can't oblige a farmer to be a farmer. So that's how I think we have a different situation. But at the same time, it's true that it's not a good arrangement to set up an arbitration institute, which we really don't know how to work. In that case, such an institution must be the ministry, which has a sum of money that they can manage in relation to such a new round of negotiations or a result of an arbitration situation. I could imagine the Council of State clarifying such a situation a little more clearly. Of course, one can go to Stortinget with a wish for a larger grant if the State comes up with a debate where the budget is increased, but in situations where there is no consensus, it is a little unclear for SV – it can also be because we are not in the nutrition committee and have not been so closely involved in the debate, and there are some other things going on at the moment, so it is difficult to get so thoroughly involved in all things at all times. But from my point of view, there is an ineffectiveness that I do not fully discover, especially in relation to the duty given to the veterinarians, which I believe is significantly different from the contractual relationship that exists between the authorities and agriculture through the agricultural negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e164	I note with satisfaction that the Economic and Social Committee has joined the Government's proposal to adapt legislation on animal health to the needs of today and tomorrow. If the legislative proposal is now adopted in line with the vote of the majority in the Committee, there is a good basis for modernising animal health work. I want to get this modernization going right away. The legislative proposal is the cornerstone of a year’s work on modernising veterinary services in Norway. Last year the Stortinget treated St.prp. No 54 for 1999-2000, concerning the professional, legal and economic framework for the management of animal health and the activities of veterinary and other animal health professionals. This left the premises for the organisation and use of the official veterinary service. The law under consideration today is primarily a professional law which sets out the conditions for the authorisation of animal health professionals, including veterinarians, and lays down the rights and obligations arising therefrom. In my opinion, through the new legislation, we have provided for the cleanliness of what the State is going to do, and what should be left to private animal health professionals and animal owners. The legislative proposal attaches great importance to modernising the provisions concerning the obligations and rights attached to the authorisation or licence. Both at the University of Bergen and at the University of Tromsø/Norway's fishing school, fish health biologists have been trained in the last ten years to deal with fish health issues. Today, a large number of people with private and public health duties are working in the breeding industry. Most of them are veterinarians, but there are also a significant number of fish health biologists. Fish health biologists are granted the right to obtain medicinal products for aquatic animals, with the exception of marine mammals. However, this provision cannot enter into force until EU legislation so permits. In my opinion, there is now a basis for a sound emergency response system that covers both public and private needs. Last year, official security guard was established at all levels of the State Animal Health Authority. In the draft law under consideration today, a country-wide watch regime for the treatment of sick animals has been set up. These arrangements are the result of a broad political process in which all views have been heard. When the Stortinget has now laid down the legal provisions for public and clinical guards, I expect that all parties see it as their task to contribute to an effective follow-up. There has been a lot of attention around the financial conditions of the clinical veterinary watch. Following the proposal of the majority of the Business Committee, the Ministry shall conclude an agreement with the professional organisations following negotiations on the organisation and implementation of the watches and on compensation/grants for participation. This, I think, is a good solution, and I want to ensure that a regulation on the implementation of this provision is drawn up as soon as possible. Both the annual framework of the grant scheme and the allocation of funds must be negotiated. Negotiations must be coordinated with the ordinary budgetary procedure. The financial framework is that of the Stortingen which is responsible for determining, also for the allocation to the clinical veterinary watch. I would like to invite the professional organisations to resume discussions on the allocation of the resources left in the clinical watch budget of the year, while negotiations on the next year's budget should start immediately in the interests of the budgetary process. I have noticed that the majority of the Economic and Social Committee does not have any comments on the follow-up of the 2001 watch regime by the Ministry. I feel confident that democratic rights will be adequately respected in the procedure that I have outlined here, and I will, as I have said, come back to the details. I also assume that the professional organisations and the individual professionals concerned follow the budgetary decisions taken by the Stortinget. I now want there to be peace around this matter, so that we all use the forces to ensure good animal health and animal welfare in this country. This will be an important contribution to the production of safe food.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e183	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e186	I feel the need to hear a little more about what happens if there is no agreement in the forthcoming negotiations, if one party can then say that it is still me who decides, even if we have negotiated. That's not what I put in the word 'negotiations' at least. There must be someone who has not been involved in those negotiations who will be able to settle a conflict. Will it be that one party, that is, the veterinarians, would have been able to strike and simply say that until there is agreement, we use it? In what way should such a conflict possibly be phased out, if it is such that an additional allocation from the Storting is needed simply to enable the Ministry/Council to say that we are meeting their requirements? I have understood that what has now been of discussions about the watch regime and its organisation, and subsequent determination of amounts as compensation for watchkeeping, has happened in such a way that there has simply not been an agreement, but there has also been no conflict that has happened to the animal owners. I hope that this will be carried out so that we are sure that the preparedness, the watchkeeping systems to take care of animal welfare, will not simply disappear for some periods in some parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e193	As I said in my article, we're now going to develop a regulation on this, where we have to take the details of how to build up the system. But what the Committee is concerned about is genuine negotiations between the professional organisations and the state. And it will be my starting point that we are now about to start an immediate process of genuine negotiations between the state and the professional organisations with a view to compensation for the conduct of clinical surveillance. So we have to negotiate both the framework and the way in which the frameworks are to be disposed of. And then the starting point is that it should be in both interests to try to reach agreement. But then, of course, it's also so that this trades, among other things. on money, on the amount of money to be spent on granting grants or compensation to self-employed persons who carry out clinical surveillance. If you don't agree with the starting point that is in the desire to agree, it is that money in this society is granted by the Stortinget, and then you have to present to the Stortinget the situation that may have arisen, and then the Stortinget, who in all other contexts, finally makes decisions. The alternative to such a solution would have to be for the Storting to delegate its authority in this area and to say that setting compensation for this type of watch regime is to be taken by a name that is not subject to either government or this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e198	It was strange to hear the Storting delegating its authority to grant money if one says that an arbitration panel should be set up to determine the remuneration here. This is what happens in the pay bill for government employees, for example. If there is an arbitration and the salary of the teachers increases, money must be allocated. It's like this in a number of areas, and it's nothing new. The opposite is that one says that here there's a sum allocated based on what's available in knowledge, and it's going to extend to whatever. I think it's a strange situation. What the Storting has said is that the compensation for the disadvantage of having a watch is to be on the same line for this profession as for others. That calculation must then be set up, and the remuneration must be: if there are many days without a call-out for the staff, there will be a larger sum than if there is fewer days without a call-out. For the time it is enough to do, the compensation for having been guarded will be paid through the employment relationship. I think it's strange if it's such that the Council of State now maintains something other than what's added to it by the majority. I think it was a unanimous committee that said that the amount of compensation should be in line with what others get. And then it was understood that then it had to be granted the heads needed to cover this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e207	It is true that the main agreement of the State provides that employees in the State must have a negotiated system of arbitration. We are not talking here about employees in the state, we are talking about private entrepreneurs, who are going to have a grant, a compensation, to perform tasks related to clinical watch. So what I said in my answer to the first line from Morten Lund, I stand by the fact that in that case the Stortinget must have chosen to say that in relation to this financial allocation, you delegate authority – by law – to a name. The majority have not agreed to that. I noticed, of course, that the Storting is concerned that there should be a proper compensation for this watch. Every year, the size will be given the opportunity to decide whether or not the Council of State considers this to be the case, either by notifying through the budget that an agreement has been reached on this compensation, or that, hopefully exceptionally, no agreement has been reached. Every year, the Stortinge may verify whether the Council of State has taken the business committee's view on the level of this watch subsidy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e216	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 618]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e232	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each of the independent representatives 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked for the floor. Would the representative, Gabrielsen, like to make a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e243	I would like to thank the President for his vigilance. I am promoting the Right proposal, which is included on page 3 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e250	Ansgar Gabrielsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 623]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e266	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 624]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e274	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e281	During the debate, Randi Karlstrøm, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left, put forward the proposal contained in the vote. In addition, Mr Brandsnes, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Right, the Progressive Party and the representative of Mr Terje Knudsen, has tabled proposal No. 2, which is distributed in the hall. This proposal is a correction to Section 26, and the President proposes that the proposal be considered even if it has been submitted after the regulatory period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e566	The rapporteur has pointed out a mistake in Section 1. in the first paragraph, the words ‘Section 1 The purpose of the Act is replaced by the following:’ shall be deleted;
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e590	There are two proposals here. That is proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party and representative Terje Knudsen, who replaces Section 26 of the suspension. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e623	It is then votered over § 26 nr. 3, alternatively, between proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen, and the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e774	The rapporteur has made a mistake in the title of Section 27. Here the words ‘to be replaced’ are deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e783	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e792	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e799	During the debate, Mr Gabrielsen, on behalf of the Right, put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the exercise of market regulation in the cereals sector by the authorities.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e839	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e850	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen also want to oppose this. – It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e863	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e905	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e914	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-01-lower.ana.ud1173e923	There is no record.
