ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e87	The representative Per Sandberg will present two private legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e90	On behalf of the representative John I. Alvheim and myself, I would like to propose amendments to the Act of 8 April 1981 No. 7 on children and parents § 3 and § 6 so that issues of danger are determined by DNA testing and changes to the Law of 13 August 1915 No. 6 on the proceedings in disputes § 412 so that proceedings on prudence shall be decided in accordance with the rules of children's law. I will also, on behalf of the representative Per Roar Bredvold and myself, make proposals on the law on amendments to the law on gambling of 28 August 1992. Section 103(10), so that after fund redundancies are made, the profits of the company are to be distributed by one-half for sport and one-half for cultural purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e97	The legislative proposals will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e109	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 579]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e123	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to the exchange of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e134	The current law on disaggregation is outdated in several respects and, in general, in a limited amount of time. According to its wording, the law applies only to changes in municipal borders. It does not include rules for changing county limits. Changes in county boundaries have been implemented by analogy with the law, which is not useful. For the treatment of St.meld. No 32 for 1994-95, the municipal and county divisions, debated the Stortinget on 7 June 1996 Innst. S. No 225 for 1995-96. Both the Government and the Stortinget stated that there was no need for a divisional reform. The size took note of the question of the need for a revision of the partitioning law. On 23 May 1995 the representative of Mr Morten Lund, in the context of a debate on the merger decision, presented the following proposals: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that future changes in the municipal structure shall not include municipalities where the local government, or the residents of a referendum, has opposed the municipal association.’ This is the concrete basis for the legislative review and, at the same time, the political basis up to today. The Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left remain on the same policy as in 1995. All parties state that it is important to protect local democracy. It's important to bring power out to the people. It is therefore regrettable that this time the Right does not wish to support the proposal of those lots. The right-wing members also show that experience shows that the best results are obtained through voluntary rather than coercive. However, the right reserves the right to cut through fully locked situations. The members of the Workers' Party also show that it is necessary to stimulate voluntary associations of municipalities, so that we get stronger municipalities that are able to carry out more tasks. But, like in 1995, the Workers' Party wants to be able to impose community law when they find this appropriate. The whole committee is mainly behind the new law on division, a law which is a clear procedural law, and which covers a number of areas that are not covered by the current law. In addition to a number of procedural rules, the law provides guidance on who has the right to initiate border adjustments and mergers. The law sets out the objectives and scope and sets out a number of necessary definitions. The provisions of the Law on the preparation of cases are both useful and good, and the Committee welcomes these provisions. In contrast to current law, the law will also have provisions in the case of counties. The law provides for the bundling and splitting of districts, for the bundling and sharing of municipalities, for the adjustment of county boundaries, for the adjustment of municipal borders and for the setting of borders. Furthermore, it provides for the effects of border changes and specific rules for the implementation phase. It also regulates the economic settlement after border changes and addresses economic compensation and supervision. The members of the Committee from the Christian People's Party, the Progressive Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left point to the unfairness committed against the municipalities which were coerced in 1991. These new large municipalities only retained the basic grants for all municipalities for two years and have lost significantly in relation to current legislation. These parties have also announced that they will submit proposals for loss compensation to the municipalities of Arendal, Fredrikstad, Hamar and Larvik in the context of the treatment of the municipal proposal. What the treatment of this law is about is what policy we are going to pursue. The Christian People's Party, the Party of Advances, the Central Party and the Socialist Left are therefore promoting the following proposals: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that future changes in the municipal structure shall not include municipalities where the local government, or the residents of the referendum, has opposed the municipal association.’ I'm addressing this proposal. The proposal is about showing respect in action for local democracy. I regret that the Right Party and the Labour Party cannot support such a proposal, not least that the Right Party has changed its course in this context. The fact that the Workers' Party is in favour of a policy that will inevitably lead to centralisation is nothing new.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e162	Ivar Østberg has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e165	It is a completely necessary renewal of the law of division – the municipal and county border law, we can well call it – we are now going to adopt. Today's law from 1956 is deficient, and it leaves doubt about the procedure in specific cases. The law we are now to adopt is a law that clarifies the procedure and process for setting municipal boundaries and changes in municipal and county divisions. Borders between municipalities, not to say community mergers, are often controversial and very emotional. Therefore, it is important to be very clear as to who should act as actors, what is the procedure for proper handling, who can decide on different types of cases, the consequences of the changes proposed, and their implementation. This law will not affect the number of municipalities or counties. The aim of the law is to create greater predictability for those who have to be involved in this type of process, and a more effective procedure. Local democracy is strengthened by the fact that a legislator should obtain the views of the local government on a topical question of division, and that the local government itself determines the method to be used. But there is no requirement for local referendums. A relationship to which it is important to stress is that State compensation should be granted for the cancellation of Framework Grants by, for example: community mergers. Finally, the question of coercion of municipalities. The law gives Stortinget access to this, but the Workers' Party believes it is more important to stimulate voluntary community mergers than to use coercion. Our motive for getting fewer and larger municipalities in the long term is that they will become more robust, and thus be able to take on more tasks – this again in order to fulfil the role we believe the municipalities should have, which is the most central part of our welfare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e178	It is gratifying that the bulk of the population now brings us a significant step forward in the clearing process that started with the Christiansen selection early in the 1990s. The majority of the population may have fallen short in 1995, but the subsequent legislative process has nevertheless clarified the need and picture in terms of the right of initiative and decision-making in the various cases. Some of us have been a bit concerned with the overall responsibility of Stortingen. Finally, the Ministry has pointed out that the Stortinget, regardless of the legal text, can also have a right of initiative, if that should be the case. A unanimous decision-making process today adopts a legal text with a clear definition of which divisional matters are to be decided by the government and at large. Now the majority also say that the law can be applied – a fact of course in many ways, which the minority seeks to prevent with an additional proposal. In the past, as I said in 1995, the right has correctly supported such a proposal, precisely to underline our commitment to volunteering in terms of structural development in the municipal sector. And this attitude still has the Right. It has also been shown to the right by being a driver of further lubrication in relation to the voluntary processes by also proposing the regional grant included in the existing breakdown grant. Nevertheless, fully fixed situations may require the participation of the Storting, which the legal text now takes into account – a legal text that everyone supports. However, it seems appropriate to point out that Section 4 is not to apply. The centre party also has a fear of the Ministry's right of initiative. The right has no fear of investigations. Of course, we have respect for decisions, and that is where we need to ensure that our participation is responsible, as our behaviour in even smaller divisional matters in recent times has shown. The rapporteur and the majority point out that this is a procedural law, i.e. that the Department may not promote matters of a certain character which the Department considers inappropriate. This may vary depending on which party is in government, but there must be no doubt that if the Stortinget has the overall authority, the Stortinget may also ask for cases that may not reach the Stortinget. There is no practical consequence in the first instance of this legal process except that, if there is local democratic resistance in an investigated process, at least there will now be a minimum of justification for this resistance. Otherwise, if the minority proposal is adopted, the right of veto will be absolute – also a right of veto without any justification.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e195	The proposal for a new division law, which we are dealing with here today, means that we get a much clearer law than the current division law. The new law describes in a clearer way the process, right of initiative, investigations, case preparation and decision-making authority in matters relating to local border adjustment, municipal division or community merger. This legislative reform is both positive and important. The Progress Party therefore largely agrees with the present proposal for a new partitioning law. However, for the Progress Party, it is important to stress that any merger of municipalities should be based on voluntary participation by means of a binding referendum in the municipalities concerned. The Progress Party, together with the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV, therefore agree on the proposal that the principle of voluntary municipal association, adopted by the Stortinget on 1 June 1995, should continue to apply, and that future changes in the municipal structure should not include municipalities where the municipal government or residents have opposed the municipal association in the event of a referendum. Community is in a way primarily a local matter, but of course it is also a matter of great national interest. It is therefore appropriate to confer on the Ministry the right of initiative and the investigation authority in relation to the merger of municipalities. The Committee agrees. The Progress Party is not at all against a change in the municipal structure in Norway so that we get fewer and larger municipalities through a municipal merger. Although this may not really be part of the debate, I will briefly mention that, in my view, the number of municipalities today – 435 – is too high. In addition, several municipalities in Norway are too small by population. When nearly 250 municipalities have less than 5,000 inhabitants, and about 320 municipalities have fewer than 10,000 inhabitants, it speaks its clear language. But although this debate is not primarily about community mergers, I am taking this with me to illustrate the potential of this new law of division. Moreover, the Progress Party, as mentioned in the main, supports the legislative proposal itself, after signaling its main views in the comments in the vote, where the Progress Party thus clearly states that municipal mergers should be based on democratically anchored principles through binding referendums in the municipalities concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e208	The Labour Party confirms in today's recommendation that their emphasis on local government and their desire for greater political commitment to the inhabitants of each local environment has a clear limit. When it comes to community structure, which is so sensitive to belongings, which has so much to say for each individual's involvement, the Labour Party is taking a counter-fight compared to 1995. In the Government's proposal for a partitioning law, the Labour Party chooses to ignore the fact that a broad majority in the Stortinget on 1 June 1995 took the following decisions: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that future changes in the municipal structure shall not include municipalities where the local government, or the residents of a referendum, has opposed the municipal association.’ Right has now turned in ours and secure plurals so that municipalities can join forces, against the will of the people. The right often speaks nicely of freedom of choice, of trust in the individual, of the need to get rid of state overgrowth. Jan Petersen, who has so often maintained free will as a basis for municipal convergence, is overrun. When this proposal was being debated in 1995, Jan Petersen and others said. following: ‘I read the proposal so that the very central element in it is the principle of the use or non-use of coercive force in municipal associations, i.e. a decision here against what is the clear majority of the community. On this point, I would like to recommend to the Right-wing Group that we vote in favour of this proposal which has now been tabled. I believe it is important that in the foreseeable future we see it as not relevant to join municipalities by coercion." ‘Coverable future’ — in this case, the ‘foreseeable future’ was to be defined as six years. Correctly force only in special cases. It is more than exciting to follow up on what should be defined as special at a time when the Labour Party is constantly looking for new incentives to achieve its target of larger municipalities. The central party does not want the Storting to overrun the local people's will in such cases. We will not make changes that create poorer conditions for the local government, for people's membership, for opportunities for equivalent welfare services, for the fight against centralisation forces, for ensuring full employment through the role of local authorities as a driver of local development. We are not against change, but we believe that changes, border adjustments and also associations of municipalities should be based on local initiatives and local agreements. Many municipalities today have developed good inter-municipal cooperation. That's what we think is important. That's what we want to stimulate. We know that is a very good alternative in many areas to merging municipalities and thus contributing to greater distances in many cases between the controllers and the controllers. In my country, Nord-Jären is an area where there is a common labour market region, and where this issue of association comes up at certain intervals, and where the ministry has also taken the initiative in this way. When the court's national meeting decision was clear, Stavanger Aftenblad wrote on the pitch: «In Stavanger Right, the decision is welcomed. We're afraid it can hit back quickly. Recently, there has been a positive trend towards greater practical cooperation between municipalities in Northern Ireland. If the threat of coercion is to be used again as a rice behind the rear-view mirror, it may destroy the confidence and the climate of cooperation that is in the process of being built up. In addition, if the big municipality really is a good idea, why do you not rely more on the power of the belief?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e234	The most important thing about this matter we are dealing with now is that we have a clean and transparent law to regulate how municipalities can be merged or shared, or how to move borders. It's a pleasure. Then the majority and the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Parties and the Advance Party separate layers where it is about whether or not this can be done by force. SV is not against community mergers, but we believe it is inappropriate and undemocratic to do so against a clear public opinion. That's why we've found it right again to give a political assurance that this won't happen. But SV disagrees with the Center Party when the Center Party is opposed to agreeing with what the Government proposes, namely that municipalities that merge will be allowed to keep the breakdown grant for 10 years. SV believes that some changes in the municipal structure may make sense, and we think it is very positive that mechanisms are now being put in place to prevent an economic back-up when you choose to merge. We believe that this is a very positive move with the proposal put forward by the Government. Therefore SV, together with the centre parties and the Progress Party, chooses again to point out the unfairness committed against Arendal, Fredrikstad, Larvik and Hamar when they were coerced. It wasn't a bit of a wedding around those municipal mergers. There were very divided opinions, and later these municipalities have worn out very financially. Now it's the way the government and the majority are involved in changing the policy. You want to use a different technique when municipalities merge. This new policy must mean that the view of what is reasonable and useful in this context has changed. That's what we think is important to establish. In this context, we would like to point out that these old injustices should be corrected. SV will make proposals on this in connection with the municipal proposition, and I expect that there will be a proposal several parties want to agree on. I also think the government should seriously consider that, because it is not appropriate that the economy of some of the municipalities that have done this should be bad, and that it results in a worse offer to the population of the municipalities that have made it forcing them to. There is no such thing as a very good policy. We want to support the new principles put here. We believe that they are correct, and that, as I said, this must lead to a review and re-establishment of some of the distortions that occurred when there was a slightly larger community merger last time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e245	There are shared views about the need for a review of the municipal structure here in the country. That is what the debate has shown so far. Nevertheless, I am pleased that it seems that we can reach agreement on the law of procedure in this area; that is what the Government has proposed. The law says something about the procedure to be followed if it becomes relevant to make changes to the municipal classification. Otherwise, as has been said by several here, it is value neutral and does not say anything about when changes should or should be made. The current municipal and county division law dates from the middle of the last century, from 1956. The law has provided good and complementary guidance in some areas. The economic settlement, for example: are described in detail. At the same time, the law leaves other and equally important questions unsolved. It says e.g. nothing about who can take the initiative, who is responsible for investigating matters, and how changes should be implemented in practice. The proposal for a new law is based on the previous law, as far as it has worked in practice. Where so far there has been a lack of response and clarification of the procedure, the new legislation has been supplemented and clarified. No one is served by a law that argues about the process and decision-making procedures in an area that is fragile enough initially. The desire is that the law should lead to greater predictability and simpler procedures than has been the case up to now. I have noticed that there is some disagreement in the Committee on how we should, for the future, deal with the decision on enlargement from June 1995. All parties agree that volunteering on the part of municipalities is the best. And when agreement among the municipalities forms the basis of a proposal for aggregation, the Government can take decisions in the matter. That's the way it is today. However, if there is disagreement between the municipalities concerned about joining forces, the bill implies that the matter still needs to be brought before Stortinget, which is of course quite free to consider what is the best solution. I am pleased that the majority of the committee agrees with the Government that good financial arrangements are important for municipalities that merge. The breakdown grant means that no municipalities will receive reduced State transfers if they choose to merge. This also applies to municipalities that, after the merger, will pass over 3000 inhabitants and therefore no longer qualify for regional grants. The additional costs of the merger process itself will also be part of the financing by the State. Both the disaggregation grant and partial compensation for one-off costs will be legalised with this bill, which will give the municipalities assessing aggregation a predictability of the future economic situation of the new municipality. I hope that this financial security will help more municipalities to consider aggregation as an alternative when discussing how to ensure their citizens a wide range of good welfare services in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e264	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e268	First to the laws themselves. It is assumed that the Central Party is the largest of an up-to-date law when it comes to setting and changing municipal and county boundaries. What is bad is who is going to take the initiative, and the main point – which I have already touched on in my post – who is going to take the final decision when there is an inconsistency between municipalities. Following the decision today, the Council of State has wide support in Stortinget to allow the Ministry, on its own initiative, to assess border changes and municipal convergence. There's something that the Center Party is strongly opposed to. We believe that the initiative should be taken from below. I want to give the council the opportunity to say something more about what plans it has in relation to the municipal structure in the future. It may look as if it has specific plans to take initiatives towards larger municipalities. It asks for both the provision of the local economy and its initiatives in relation to specific geographical areas, for example: what she's seen going on in the North Year. What immediate planes does it have in the direction of another structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e277	As I said, this law is completely neutral in relation to the merger of counties and municipalities. I have no list that is clear in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs with which municipalities I might wish to merge. Of course, I still think that volunteering is the best, of course. This law and the changes that are being adopted here today do not indicate that it is now being added to any large-scale coercion, just so it is clear. In the case of Jären and the cooperation which is now under way there with the support of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which has also been at the post of the municipal committee, there is, of course, an attempt to achieve binding cooperation across the municipal borders. I really hope that will result in something concrete. I think the processes that are going on there are positive, not least in the debate on land use, etc. I have great hopes for that. When it is claimed from the representative of Meltveit Kleppa that the municipal economy should in some way be a contribution to getting larger municipalities, it is completely wrong. I have also heard the representative Meltveit Kleppa say, both here and in other contexts, that we are adding up to a scheme that will lead to more centralisation and larger municipalities. Now the municipal bill of treatment is in this house, and we'll see what comes out of it. But I think it's a little strange that this criticism comes repeatedly from the Central Party, which itself not so long ago was responsible for the local and regional ministry. It is at least a fact that the appropriations for the local economy, both for the year we are now in, and what is proposed for next year, are higher than what the Central Party itself proposed while they were in government. So linking it to the fact that we should almost have a desire to get larger municipalities at the municipal economy we have presented, I think it seems very strange to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e288	The state council Brustad said in her article, and now in the reply she underlined, that the law is value-neutral. I agree. I have described it as a process law, and so has the ministry. I have to make it clear that it does not say anything about when you might want to merge, and in what way, but I am pleased with the good financial arrangements with the breakdown grant, which will last for ten years. In 1991 it was a coercion. The size could then have two thoughts in your head in 1995 at the same time. They both said that the policy should be that we should not coerce, and that, of course, the Storting – that is, the majority in June – should have the final decision, that is natural. Is it then so unreasonable to hope that, when the Council of State makes such a clear reference to the disaggregation grant that we received in the course of a municipal merger in Westfold, that the wrongs committed against Arendal, Fredrikstad, Hamar and Larvik – it has been suggested in the past that they should at least receive some compensation, and that is still within the 10-year limit, which a disaggregation grant should last – could at least be compensated for three years in addition, and not only for the two years that they received at that time? I could imagine asking Brustad State Council if it is possible to look forward to a positive attitude from the Government on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e297	It's the way that when you decide new things, there will always be borderline cases or things that have happened before, that a person would like to have done differently, and often there are things that have happened, that are also the background for changing something. And that is probably also the case with changes in the financial settlement when municipalities merge differently. When we've been doing something about it, it's because we've also heard pretty strong arguments from municipalities where they've discussed whether they should join forces, and one of the arguments against it has been that they're losing money to do it. There is something we have taken seriously, and I am pleased that the Stortinge has joined it, so that it is now worthwhile to join together, if the municipalities find it appropriate. But my attitude to what happened a few years ago, whether it's in Arendal, Fredrikstad or Hamar, is that I'm probably not recommending that we give the new arrangement that is now going to apply to the future, retrospectively to those municipalities. It was probably also a debate we had, as far as I remember, during the treatment of the municipal economy for this year, and at least we haven't changed our view of it at this time. But I'm glad we're now getting a setup for the future that's better than what's been up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e306	It is right that the Council of State says that the laws themselves are neutral. What is then the question is: Is what the Council of State and the Labour Party otherwise do neutral in relation to a future municipal structure? Well, that's not it! Now I am pleased to have made it clear that the work that has been done on the North-Jear has the aim of strengthening inter-communal cooperation. Now there are already in this area actually registered over 50 collaborative projects. It can certainly have something to review what is established, and look at what else is needed. It seemed to me that the municipalities of the North-Jären so far have also been very good at it. But it's good that there isn't another municipal structure that's the target. When it comes to the local economy and the facilities there, I have to say that I am particularly surprised if we have a municipal minister who is not aware of how the element that is called the removal of loss compensation is perceived in itself in relation to being an intervention even when it relates to another municipal structure. So there's a loss of income of two billion dollars in total, and where the municipalities that become the largest are some of the smallest municipalities in this country. Visit some of these municipalities and ask if they see this as a support for a common structure in the future, or if they see it as a direct message to seek cooperation with others, especially when you also want to encourage them in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e315	I perceived it so that so to say all the parties believe that in terms of community reunification, volunteering is the best thing. What the majority is going to do through this amendment of the law is to leave it up to the Storting to decide if the Storing should think it was right in individual cases to do something else. But to present it as if the Workers' Party were for a large-scale coercion of municipalities, of course, is completely wrong. When it comes to the debate on the local economy, we come back to it, so I'll just say a few sentences about it – it might be a little bit more – and that's the following: I don't think that the debate is about how big or small municipalities we're going to have. What the debate is about, and then when this is especially about loss compensation, is whether to enable all the municipalities in the country to offer the most equivalent service. And when we know that the main explanation for different services between municipalities today is the income system, we have two possibilities. One is to go in and make changes in the income system, as the Government has now proposed, and the other is not to make any changes in the income system and let it continue to be like now. And then at least I'm sure the right thing is to make sure that all municipalities, large and small, are able to offer their inhabitants a service offering that is as equivalent as possible. But the rest of that debate I expect us to come back to on a very near forthcoming occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e322	What this law adds up to is a combination of municipalities. If it hadn't, there would hardly have been any sense in adopting this new law here today. So there's no secret that this is a step on the way to changing the municipal structure in Norway. I noticed that the council said something like – if I don't remember correctly: I don't have a list of municipal mergers in the department. But before I go further, I just want to remind you that in 1837, when the Presidency Act was introduced, Norway was divided into well over 400 municipalities. Then there was a strong division of Norwegian municipalities until the 1930s, when we were up in almost 750. Then there was a large-scale municipal merger in the 1960s and 1970s, and the number came down to 435 in the early 1990s. It's clear that once we've got such a law, there must be some ambition to merge municipalities. Although this may not be part of the debate, I would challenge the Council of State on the following: Does she think there are too many municipalities in Norway today? Can she say what is the correct municipality number in Norway? Is that 200 or 250? I have already signaled from my party that we believe there are too many municipalities in Norway, but that aggregation should be based on volunteering. Unfortunately, the Workers' Party is now proposing that municipal mergers be based on involuntaryness.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e331	I just have to repeat that the law adopted here today is completely value-neutral in relation to municipal and county mergers. I think it's very important that we have a law that's up-to-date with the reality we're living today, and that there's not going to be big discussions about processes, economics, etc. if municipal mergers are to be carried out – and primarily if voluntary, which I believe most parties agree on is the very best. That's what it's about today. And like I said, we don't have a list of municipalities that we absolutely want to merge, but I'm interested in recording that there are quite a number of interesting discussions and processes going on in many municipalities. I hope and believe that the changes we are making now, among others. by changing the economic conditions for aggregation, will also contribute positively where a view is that aggregation is correct and in the best interests of the population, in order to have the best possible service provision. I don't think today's municipal structure is going to look like ten years from now. But that's not the same thing as saying, as it was made here by the representative Torbjørn Andersen, that we now have a long list of municipalities that we want to merge. Freedom is the best thing. This law is as such completely neutral, but it opens up the possibility that in very special situations, if a majority of the Storting wants it, the Storing can decide otherwise. But there is something other than saying that we should now have a long list of municipalities that are ready for aggregation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e338	The Council of State mentions that some work is being done both with the preprocessor for municipal mergers and with a number of initiatives to move some municipal borders. One thing Stortinget has had on his table before, the Council of State has now decided. It might as well have been a good idea to take this line to the representative of Meltveit Kleppa, for her government also went in to move a line towards the clear recommendation of a local government. It is now continuing to do so, and that is why I need to ask the Council of State, as the legal basis for how municipalities should be heard when it comes to such matters is a little unclear as stated in the bill. Is it the case that all parties to such a conflict should be heard? Is it that they should be weighed equally? And has the government seen how such measurements of public opinion can take place? Because it can be done in a lot of ways, and you can get almost the results you want if you ask in a subtle enough way. I remember well when the matter between Sande and Vanylven was up when the Bondevik administration was sitting, and we were going to discuss border regulation. At the time, the Workers' Party was very concerned that the methods used to rule out the people's opinion were of such a quality that it was certain that the results were obtained, were factually correct, and that the people's opinion had emerged. Can the Council of State explain a little how she believes such processes should be carried out when it comes to finding the people's opinion in municipal mergers?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e345	It may be a little different how but choose to hear people in the municipality, possibly in several municipalities, depending on whether there are border regulations or adjustments between municipalities, or whether there are mergers, etc. I believe that there must be a certain room for municipal maritime administration as to how you think you can best get the inhabitants to speak. As for the specific case with Sande and Vanylven, there was no simple decision. We all know the history of it. But I feel absolutely sure that all the aspects that should be considered in that case have now been examined, that all those who have considered the matter have been allowed to express it. But it's not possible to assume that everyone should somehow weigh equally. If we were to hear the same amount, for example. on Vanylven City Council as on Sande City Council, nothing would happen. That's how you have to make a decision, and then someone will be satisfied, and others won't be so satisfied. But I feel safe, after the rounds of further investigations that took place after the case was dealt with in Stortinget last, that the decision that is now taken is the right one, despite the fact that there is disagreement between Sande and Vanylven about it. But what I do, among other things, has stressed, is what the majority of the sails of Åram krin thought about that matter, and also the many who have meant something in the process, so I feel very confident about that. I don't think that's a very clear template for how to hear the people, it'll probably vary a bit. And I think, as I said, you also have to have some room for local maritime governance in that area. However, it is very important that all aspects of the case appear before decisions are taken, whether they are regulation and adjustment, or possibly aggregation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e352	The queue changes have been completed. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e358	I need to put forward some of the comments that are linked through the debate to the views of the Right in this matter, and in particular to what has been said by the Central Party on this subject with the 'clear future'. The right can well live with the six-year ‘evident future’, at least in the case of a verbal proposal relating to the application of a legal text for which the entire hall agrees. So much time to think about reforming, we think we should keep going. I dare say that Jan Petersen in this case is not overrun. With all probability, the Right Leader will be in place in the new bigotry and will note that his basic attitude on structural volunteering will be followed as a general rule also in the coming period. But when that's said, we have different wishes in the Center Party and the Right about the need for a change in the municipal structure based on volunteering, of course we do. I can refer to a not-so-old process in my own state during the Central Party Council, where there was a significant savings potential that could benefit the inhabitants of a voluntary community merger. But what was the answer to the Council of State at that time? Well, all the savings would immediately be deducted from the government. What kind of motivation factor for natural development is there in such feedback from a department? I'm just letting the question hang in the air. Obviously, if we are to have a necessary development, we also have to cultivate – let's call it – the carrots that we've been talking about. Then there is a need for expertise in small Norwegian municipalities. It is not so easy to put your finger on where your incompetence is, but there is a need for competence. And that's a saving potential that can benefit the inhabitants. It's up to this hall to look after, and try to make a smooth contribution to taking this out. So in the end we talk about intermunicipal cooperation, which we also talk about very much in our national meeting program. But there's a constraint. When we see all the species of intermunicipal cooperation and corporate formation we have today, it is a clear symptom that as a general rule Norwegian municipalities are too small today. This is the symptom, and we have to take that inward. What kind of direct democracy is it if this is to be the main message, that you have to make synchronous and equal decisions in all municipalities to get some way, or alternatively run through a corporate formation. When this gets a certain volume, it's not much better than a majority democracy in a slightly larger municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e367	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 580]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e381	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no possibility of changing the lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e390	Since there is complete agreement on the amendments promoted by the Government, I do not think there will be any major debate. The reason why I take the floor is that in the vote we have put forward a verbal proposal, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the organisation of a more formal welcome ceremony relating to the award of Norwegian citizenship and to propose this rather than the Grand Duchy in relation to new changes in citizenship law.’ We believe that getting their citizenship awarded through a letter in the post, as it is today, does not give the right formal or solemn framework around becoming a Norwegian citizen. We believe that there should have been some more status related to it. We also think it would be natural for the community to use this opportunity to welcome new citizens to its municipality or to its place. Since it is only the Advance Party and the Right who are behind this proposal, I do not feel the need for us to take it up to voting, but will ask for it to be turned into a recommendation in Stortinget. I want to justify that if we get time to think a little bit more through this, more people will see that there might be good reasons to make this a little bit more of a holiday than it is today. Today, it's like any other type of authorisation you might have obtained after applying for a public bureaucracy, and it's actually not to have the right to vote and to have full citizenship in Norwegian society. I think a lot of communities would also have profited from showing this to many of them, among other things. have come as refugees to Norway, who actually want to become Norwegian citizens, and who have said yes to a committed life in our society. We see that almost 50 pst. of those who have come as refugees on a humanitarian basis, who have achieved the criteria for applying for citizenship, in fact do. I really don't think we're doing enough of getting new citizens. We have many brand days in life, for example. baptism, confirmation and other things that we think are important. It is so important that it no longer belongs only to the religious ceremonies, but civil ceremonies are made for those who do not believe in God, despite the fact that these are originally clearly religious ceremonies. Maybe we should also have a slightly larger ceremony linked to becoming a Norwegian citizen and gaining voting rights in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e402	The President perceives that the representative Erna Solberg has taken up the proposal, but wants to turn it into a transmission proposal. Under the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal is to send the Stortinget, so the President will remind the representative Erna Solberg that it is in Stortinget that the proposal has to be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e405	We do not disagree with the proposal and the legal text. It's a co-conspirator's committee that makes it possible for these changes to be correct and necessary. In addition to the representative Erna Solberg said about an external sign that one has achieved Norwegian citizenship, in the Progress Party we are of the opinion that the new citizens should also declare loyalty to their new homeland, declare loyalty to our Grundlova, and also declare loyalty to the building of society, tradition and culture on which Norwegian society is built. This we thought is important, but we see that the multiples are not willing to go into it now. That is why I agree with Mr Solberg that when this proposal comes to the Stortinget and is to be dealt with there, we will turn it into a transmission proposal, so that it may grow in the government quarter. It has happened before proposals that have not had multiples have matured in the government quarter and perhaps have come back and become something of them. Because I think, as the representative Erna Solberg had in mind, that an external indication that a person has acquired Norwegian citizenship will be something solemn and will mean that one has achieved something that is a little special in life. I can show that in the United States is the outer marker, and there is also a statement of loyalty to the country of origin, the constitution and the construction of society. These words also support the Progress Party configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e414	There are two fundamental proposals for amendments to the National Act of Stortinget, and I am pleased that the vote by the Municipal Committee is in line with the Government's proposal. I would therefore now just like to comment very carefully on the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party, where the Government asked for the organisation of a more formal welcome ceremony relating to the award of Norwegian citizenship, and that proposals to that effect should be submitted to the Grand Duchy in the context of new changes in national law. It has been shown that a public sample has been subject to amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act. The committee referred to was held on 21 December last year and was led by the Supreme Court judge Jan Skare. As you know, they have proposed a completely new citizenship law. After the necessary consultations have now been held, the Government intends to return to the Grand Duchy with proposals for a new national law. The proposal for a separate welcome ceremony will be considered in that context, so I don't find it natural to go into it more closely here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e423	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 584.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e437	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to the exchange of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note. The first speaker is the head of the committee, Berit Brørby, on behalf of the chairman of the case, who is a member of the Lamentations Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e450	That is quite correct – the case rapporteur is a member of the Lagninget, which is why I shall say a few words. During this period, the Municipal Committee and the Stortinget have dealt with the rental law several times, and all parties have clarified their views both in relation to the rental law and dispute settlement. The Committee is, of course, aware that the situation on the rental market is very difficult both in terms of number of dwellings and in terms of prices. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party, indicate that relationships related to rental housing and housing policy instruments are also dealt with by the reduced Housing Committee, which has not yet given up its position. When this has happened, the Storting will be presented with a separate survey report on housing policy challenges. In a special comment from SV, it is claimed that it is government and majority policy that rentals in many rental homes should be greatly increased. The debate in Stortinget earlier today on the SV's proposal to secure reasonable rentals in social rentals clearly shows that we disagree on the use of the instrument, not on the objectives. The Labour Party has a social housing policy programme to deliver results whose municipalities and others use the tools we have put forward and to which the Stortinget has joined. But one can always discuss the dimensioning of the different instruments. SV says that they are not against the deregulation that has taken place, but that the time was wrong, and that one should wait until there was enough housing for those who have to have an offer through a screened rental market. When will it be? See what happens, for example. in Oslo. Here, dwellings owned by the municipality are sold at market prices. As I said, we are against the municipality selling its homes. We simply believe that they should have a more decent housing policy. Our government has, as I said, provided tools for the municipalities to use. Because the Workers' Party is also concerned about the development of the housing market, we have increased the framework of the House Bank, the grant for the construction of rental houses and the municipal access to start-up loans by 50 pst. The setting follows a comprehensive letter from Brustad State Council, where the various proposals from SVs Andersen and Halvorsen are widely discussed. Here is the question of the preparation of the rentals of people. The assertion from Andersen and Halvorsen that the lessor's access to demand rent for the new law is an unintended unfortunate consequence of the new law is rejected. The provision is deliberately designed as it is, to provide tenants with better price protection than under the old law. The lessee's security is important. We believe that in most cases the tenant will be offered a rent without this being legalised. We're totally dependent on the private rental market. But we don't want to make the law so that people refuse to rent out because it's created the impression that they'll never be able to end the rental relationship. The majority are in favour of attaching the matter to the Minutes. We will then see if it is relevant to look at this part of the House Rental Act when the Housing Committee is done with its work, and the Storing Message is provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e473	We have had a wide debate on rent and market price etc. Earlier today. In this case too, we can say that the intention is good – it is often in SV's proposals. Of course, we have a problem when it's so expensive that many people simply can't afford their own roofs over their heads. When the Christian People's Party, together with a plurality, says that the "introduction of lease regulation provisions" can possibly be dealt with in the context of the upcoming big business message, which is presented after the Bustadsvarektionen has given its position, it is not because we believe that strict regulation of the general rental market is the solution to the problems. We say that because a big message can address most of the issues, and that gives us a chance to do it. We believe, on the contrary, that for complicated and detailed price and detail adjustments of rental apartments will primarily lead to fewer rentals, in case of damage to all the young and new people on the house market and to all those who have to rent and not own for one reason or another. The only thing that can give a generally reasonable rental price in the long term is that there are enough rentals. Of course, municipal rentals are important. When 73 p.m. of such dwellings have a cost-covering rent, it is hardly those that are price-driven. In this case, public buildings will be much more expensive than those built in private. We have a good example in Bodø on how to get enough housing. There's Student Relations at ease with the approach and the price of hyblanes. Last year, all the students in Bodø got a decent money without any problem. The explanation is that the municipality has stimulated private construction and renting out building units. At least it's claimed. A municipality that wants to reduce the pressure on the housing market must, in addition to municipal housing, facilitate private housing and make it beneficial and attractive to have a rental area in residential buildings. It must of course be possible to buy land even in a press area, but large extra charges for having more housing units, as many municipalities have, are negative. The trend is that we live more alone on a larger and larger area, while some are homeless. In this context, I would like to stress that an active district policy that counteracts the fact that all lumps coexist in urban strips is an excellent measure for a better and cheaper housing market. I would like to add that the crisis in the housing market, e.g. in Oslo, actually is of old date. I bid in Oslo when the prices of apartments were regulated. At that time, it did not prevent the market from functioning. But one paid 'under the table', and only those with money on book or those with rich parents could get an apartment. It taught me that trying to regulate the market is scarce. I recommend the recommendation of the plural.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e492	SV is proposing a more stringent rental regulation than we have ever had in Norway. They propose to introduce a general house rental regulation, or deviations from market rentals, or the current definition of rents, for all rentals through these changes in the law. So it's a stronger regulation than we've ever had before. It is also a stronger regulation than that even SV suggested when we dealt with the new law on renting houses. In addition, if you go through this proposal, there is an extensive bureaucratic proposal for the determination of rents, including: The ministry shall make yearly rental market surveys in order to determine a difference less a part of the value, i.e. annual surveys which shall guide how to define rentals in one of the two defined areas. In addition, I would just like to say as an advocacy to the debate that was partly related to Document No. 8:82 earlier today – where the right of a previous draft had written that the rental should be under hire when the house is subsidized, and it was also a greater point from other parties that it had to be cost-effective – that there is therefore nothing in this proposal that actually says that the rent in all parts of the country should be cost-effective, covered by this proposal that has been put in. That the right is against this proposal because we are against rental regulation in general, I don't think anyone is in any doubt about it. I was not really in doubt that the other parties would not open up this kind of regulation either. But I was in doubt about that since it was proposed to attach the proposal to the Minutes and refer to the fact that these questions are to be addressed by the reduced housing committee. I thought there were some things that should be stuck in housing policy. One of them is that after a major review of the law, which has taken many years, we have received a new rental law, and that the principles for determining rent are now somewhat firm, and that not all markers are to be turned all the time. I am therefore amazed that the majority, including the Advance Party, is choosing to signal that it is in a way open that we can look at this again, by attaching that protocol and referring to the future big message. If it's not to be interpreted this way, I think we're doing a little special practice for when we're attaching things to the protocol, and when we're actually rejecting proposals. That is why the Right has proposed that we reject this proposal. The substance and the content of it is, in our opinion, wrong. We think that would give you a completely wrong look. One of the problems would be that where there has been no severe pressure in market rental, this could result in regulations that would prevent necessary maintenance from being carried out. I have lived in a rented dwelling and have experienced that the window blew out at night. So I know something about how poor regulation of the landlord actually leads to poor standards in a ‘non profit’ housing company. It is therefore important to ensure that the rent actually also covers the necessary maintenance. I'm absolutely sure the intentions of SV are the best. But in fact, the intention here is that we should do something about the rental problems and get more rental homes, so we need to build more dwellings in Norway, even for rental purposes. We all agree on that. But regulating more in the mass that is, in terms of price, an intervention in ownership, but it's also from experience a system that creates problems in that it's not targeted at who reaches with that kind of regulation, and that we quickly get a situation where you freeze the flats at a level that makes the homes fall due. I will be allowed to address the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e507	The representative Erna Solberg has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e510	The House Rental Act has sometimes been adjusted in recent times to meet unforeseen rent increases. But SV clearly believes that this has not been enough. SV's belief that politicians can continue to regulate themselves from any problem in 2001 is thus reflected in the fullness of this proposal. Having an ideological conviction that political intervention in the form of regulation is a good thing for the rental market is at best a tragic misunderstanding. The problem is that there are precisely this kind of regulation of the rental market that we have had in the past and that SV will now reintroduce, which has created the imbalance in the rental market that SV is now worried about. For a long time it was not profitable to invest in renting because of house rental regulations in parts of the country, until this was changed in 1999. The time of strict house rental regulation is over. However, this regulation led to maintenance and new construction for rental purposes, for example: was of little interest, and we got significant defects in the rental market. When these regulations were essentially lifted a little ago, it is natural that the rental level will be adjusted up to the market level or re-rented quite quickly. No one had thought anything else. Increased rental income will in turn make it more attractive to invest in building more rental properties, so that the rental offer will increase and the pressure on rental prices will be stabilising as well as possibly decreasing. Increased provision of rental accommodation needs to be stimulated by a market situation with proper rental prices, making it attractive to build more rental homes and achieving a better market balance between supply and demand, which is itself price-regulating over time. Such a natural market balance between the supply and demand of rental dwellings is necessary to strive for. However, if – as SV will – one intervenes again and regulates itself back to the past and disrupts market mechanisms, it will be achieved by reducing the rental offer in the long term. SV should take on board the fact that the time of the regulatory society is good and that policy-driven regulation is inferior to the market, including in the case of offers related to rental of dwellings. Fortunately, the majority are so reasonable that they realize that the regulatory proposal promoted by SV is unreasonable and is rejected. And it can actually be those who SV is trying to help, happy, because SV's proposal would not stimulate rental offers at all. Thus, it is a bad proposal after the intentions. Nevertheless, when the Progress Party agrees that the proposal is annexed to the protocol, it means that we have an alert social eye for the situation of young people and disadvantaged people on the housing market, and with this we want to signal support for the intention of the proposal itself, but not through the concrete instruments proposed by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e525	The centre party considers the proposal currently under consideration by Odelstinget as a logical follow-up to Document No. 8:82, a proposal that has been debated earlier today, and which spelled out a regulation that ensures permanent reasonable rentals in social rentals. We understand, of course, that this proposal goes a little further. There is a clear and large need for more rentals. There is a greater need for action here. It is both about own and reasonable plots, it is about a review of the economic situation of the municipalities and the possibilities they currently have to prioritize rentals in relation to a large number of other tasks that the municipalities have and which will be resolved with too little resources, and it is about a review of the lending and lending arrangements in the Husbank. We're in the multiple that refuses to make changes now. We are in the plural that recommends that this Document No. The 8th proposal is annexed to the Minutes. Here you can see the changes made to the housing lease in 1999. I don't want to be a hundred percent safe, as Erna Solberg is, that everything that happened was the best solution. I think it is natural that the issues that remain to be discussed, which are linked to rentals and housing policy tools, are dealt with in the Building Selection Board, and that they also look at the experience associated with the changes that took place in 1999. That is why the Central Party does not reject this proposal today, but agrees to attach it to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e536	The rental market is too tough for young people and people with bad advice. When the house rent regulation regulations were lifted in Stortinget a few years ago, SV was the only party that voted against, and that was because we saw that it was not like the government then said in its submission, that they expected it not to be “notable consequences for the private parties”, as it says in the odelstingsproposition. It even says that for those tenants who are unable to pay the increased rental prices, it would be an alternative to move to a smaller and cheaper dwelling. Yes, it would have been so well that there had been many cheap homes to move to, had not this been any problem, but there are too few cheap homes. And now when the majority repeats that we have to build more dwellings in order for prices to go down, I say, "Come on! SV has made suggestions on this many times. But every time we increase the frames, the people who are now saying we're going to build more houses, the suggestions are going down. Therefore, SV believes that it is necessary to make changes to the rental law, because the rental law as it is now seems price-driven. The House Rental Act must, of course, promote the same political intentions as we do, namely that rents should not be so high as to exclude young and disadvantaged people from the housing market. We've taken a few points into consideration when it comes to this. Among other things, we believe that there is a need for a different definition of what is common rent. As it is now, rents can even sometimes be higher than market rents, if you think of a situation where market rentals go down. The system of renting units was supposed to be such that it was always a little lower and would represent a slightly more social level of rental than market rent, cf. the debate in place. It is the municipalities that now own most of the social rental homes, and many of them have chosen to move from the old system of general rental subsidies to a new system of market rental/renting combined with municipal housing support schemes. It also turns out in many cases that there is no way out. The provision we want to propose when it comes to renting people, I see that someone describes it as a bureaucratic system. But the point of it is that it's not going to be every tenant who has to figure out what's common rent, because it's very difficult. That's what the majority now proposes, while we believe that the authorities should actually have a certain responsibility to be involved and define this. Because what turns out now is that even very wretched living rooms are rented out at a very high price, because you're assuming that the market has a high price. So here the individual is left all the way to himself and gets no help at all. We therefore believe that we need to create a system where frequent rentals are always lower than market rentals, and get a system of what the authorities also have a responsibility to monitor the level of rentals and make sure that there is an unhidden body that can tell what market rentals and rents are. We also want to put a roof on how much rents can increase in one jaf. When we dealt with the house rental law last time, we had to deal with it twice afterwards because it all the time turned out that there was a huge hole in it that the majority of the Storting could not sit and look at was there. One of the holes that were closed again was that with the lifting of the mild regulation, a system was created in which the rent at first writing of a new contract could not increase by more than 25 pst. It was to make the transition lighter. Now we see that the rent for many people under the new house rental law increases by 100, 200 and 300 pst. And for very many, this is a bomb under the private economy. In fact, we believe that it is a social responsibility to ensure that there are no more problems in the rental market. And we think it's more important to make sure that people can handle their bountiful toxins than that the tenant at any time will be allowed to take out the market price. There is no doubt that the provisions as they stand today are price-driven in the market. So to the proposal to give tenants a protection so that they can write a new contract when the dwelling is still to be rented out. I perceive that is the proposal that the Government signals the most positive attitude, and that is joyous. Finally, I would like to address the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e555	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e558	Odelstinget has, as several have already said, several times over the last few years dealt with rental and lease fixing issues. For the Workers' Party, housing security and protection against unreasonable rentals have been at the heart of such assessments. Since the new house rental law was passed, we have therefore been involved in changes that ensure tenants against unreasonable rental increases in the transition from old to new house rental laws, and we have also worked actively to establish alternative dispute resolution bodies that can handle conflicts in terms of rents and rental increases. The rental commission is now established in Oslo, and the processing time there is short. The signals I have received about the scheme so far are unrelentingly positive. However, the rental show commission has received only three cases of rental increase so far, and this concerns issues of whether the contracts give the right to regulation of the rentals now. Husleinenmenda in Oslo Municipality has not received any cases concerning the rental of crowds in the current year, nor has there been any matter of rent since August 2000 in connection with the transition from old to new house rental law. The landlord in Trondheim has had some oral enquiries about the rent of the gang, but no matter what is so far brought in for the denominator. In Bergen, a tax title recently issued by the city court has taken a position on the rental of crowds in 58 municipal dwellings — all of which are major specialised housing for elderly and mentally retarded people. 42 tenants reduced the rent by 150 to 900 kroner per person. month – the average was 400 kroner – and a few quite few were able to reduce the rent by 800 to 900 kroner per month. months. Nine tenants were confirmed that they paid the rent, while seven tenants were told that they paid a rental that was under the rent of the company. In my opinion, this information indicates that the new house rental law, with subsequent adjustments, now operates largely after the intention of a large majority in this house with the statutory audit. However, the figures from Bergen show that there was a basis for rental reduction in a not insignificant number, and the number of cases brought before the various dispute bodies is, of course, no guarantee that the scale of the problems is not greater. After the trial project with the Husleietvist Committee in Oslo has been evaluated, I think we need to assess whether it is desirable to extend the scheme to other cities, such as Sweden. Bergen or Trondheim. The Housing Committee will discuss rental and rent increases issues in its investigation. After that, the Government shall provide its housing notice. Based on the recommendations of the sample, we will come back to the Storting with a broader assessment of these issues. On this basis, and also on the basis of my assessments in a letter of 11 May this year to the Municipal Committee, I do not see the need for further legislative changes in this area now. I am also pleased to record that there is a broad political consensus on this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e574	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e577	The Council of State refers to some of the matters that have been raised, where the tenant has received assistance and has reduced his rental. It is good that the arrangements we have for this work well. It's positive. The situation is enough that very many on the rental market choose to pay too high a price because they are not familiar with the dispute settlement mechanisms we have, or because they do not dare to take such a conflict as it is, in fear of losing the housekeeper and perhaps ending up with an even higher rent. But my question is about the consequences of the changes in the laws we last made, and the changes in the laws that both the Government and the majority now oppose. And the consequence of that is that very many tenants have to invest in significant rent increases, because eventually there will be more and more people who get to sign new contracts under the new house rental law, and then there is a lot of rent and market rental that apply. Then I have to ask if it's the government's policy. Does the Council of State really believe that there is now a political desire to increase rents in rental homes? Because that's what's going to be the consequence of what the government is doing, and also the consequence that the government is not willing to support any of the proposals that SV is promoting, which would have made the rent increases stay at a much lower and more sensible level. What's good about the rentals increasing as much as they do today? And why does the Government not think it is important to put forward concrete measures to ensure that this does not happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e586	Let me say again that I think we agree on the objective, but we also disagree a little bit on this matter about the instruments. Of course, there is no point for the workers' party government to get the highest price for these apartments. That is not the point, and I have also said that quite clearly earlier in the debate today. But I think we have to acknowledge the need for the extensive debate we had here on the new housing lease regulation law, with two important clarifications and adjustments in retrospect that I think were absolutely necessary because we discovered that there was quite a hole in the law that we were first presented and that we adopted. The background was that we were so clear that where there was the strongest regulation, there was very poor maintenance, so that some of the homes obviously needed a significantly better maintenance than was the case. Let's talk, for example. about private renting out. It is clear that their interest in maintaining a building will not be great if they do not get a little higher income on the building they own. So we'd also have done it in practice in some of the town halls that we're talking about here. That's why we were in favour of the principle of repeat rental. But here I also believe that there is a reason to distinguish a little between private landlords and municipalities. That's why we say it's important to go in and adjust with housing support, both municipal and state, and possibly with the help of social offices. But it is not the case that we want prices to be sky high – in no way. But I have faith in the temporary employment agency that is now established in Oslo, which has a short period of time. I think there may be a need to inform even better about that scheme, so that more people know it exists, but so far the experience with the sample has been unrivalledly positive. I think even more things can be solved by taking them up there. But I think, unfortunately, in this area too, that with the proposal that SV here has, as there are good intentions behind it, you will not achieve what is really the idea behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e595	One of the arguments used to remove the rent regulation law was that it went beyond maintenance in some rental homes. But also within that system it was entirely possible to take it up with the tenants to increase the rent if the rent was to go to maintenance and refurbishment of the rental objects. Not everyone did, and you can regret that, but the statement that it was not possible then is not correct. Nor is it the case that when rents increase considerably, the quality of housing increases accordingly. There's no necessary connection at all. Now I think very many of those who rent out dwellings have an interest in keeping their building stock at home, and that they necessarily do. But increased rents are often a good profit for those who rent out, and nothing more than that. If you take a little walk and look at Oslo's rental stock, you shouldn't be impressed by the quality of a part of it. At least it's not in proportion to the price you have to pay to live in these housing units. I wonder why the Council of State attaches such great importance to that very context, and how she can in some way say that it is more important to open up far greater profits for those who rent out than to defend those in the housing market who have the biggest problems in coping with the increased rentals that have come, among other things. as a consequence of the repeal of the Housing Lease Regulations Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e604	The representative Karin Andersen is well aware of the debate we had in several rounds here in the house when we dealt with and adopted the new house rental regulation law. The representative is also well aware that the adjustments we made led to the protection of the tenants being significantly stronger than originally foreseen, also by setting some limits in relation to how much increase it is allowed to take per person. years. It's clear that there's no automation here, that keeping the house rent regulation law, as the majority now do, will automatically lead to an improvement in maintenance in the places we're talking about here. It's clear. But I think the chance for maintenance to get better, that there will be better upgrading of part of these apartments, is considerably greater with the possibility of adjusting the rental a little, while helping those who need it, through other means than regulating the rental to as low a level as SV here wants. At least then, it is quite certain – it has shown us in practice – that maintenance will be very poor in many of the places we are talking about here. Otherwise, as I said in my main post, the Housing Committee is going through this. Of course, we're following developments, and then the government will come back with a message to the Storting, and then we'll see if there is a need for any changes at that time. But I don't think that now, just quite a short time after we've passed a new law, there's a need to make some changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower.ana.ud2670e613	No more words have been asked for. No more have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox The time for the morning meeting has come. [[Footing, see page 585]] Negotiations will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
