ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-18.ana.ud1039e30	I refer to the debate in the media and in the political environment on any health damage to personnel who have served in war zones where ammunition with depleted uranium has been used. On the basis of questions from the representative Langeland, I gave a brief brief information on the matter in Stortinget's Question Time on 10 January this year. I announced in the context that I would come back with a broader orientation this week. First of all, the consideration of own personnel and the civilian population in the areas where such ammunition has been used requires that we do our utmost to establish whether there may be a causal link between the use of this type of ammunition and health damage. At the same time, it is a fact that such a relationship has so far failed to be documented, and we should therefore be careful to draw hasty and blatant conclusions. It is important to be aware that service in international operations involves a certain risk of service taking place in areas where there is or has been a war or acts of war. In addition to the various types of pollution caused by the use of weapons, extensive damage to civil infrastructure and local industry is also often caused by various types of pollution. The media focus has almost without exception been focused on the potential health consequences of the use of depleted uranium ammunition. My statement today also focuses on depleted uranium. However, I am also very concerned that we do not exclude possible causalities due to other pollutants. I therefore believe that there is a need for a wide-ranging study that takes into account that we can face a possible larger cause complex. I assume that this aspect will be addressed in the comprehensive health survey currently planned in Norway and in the further work on this issue in NATO. In a debate of this nature, there will be fundamental perceptions and vision in all directions. It is therefore important to get facts on the table. It is the intention of both this statement and the further work on this matter. On five different occasions, representatives of the majority of the population have raised questions for written answers relating to the use of depleted uranium weapons. The current Minister of Defence Dag Jostein Fjærvoll answered in a letter of 25 November 1998 and further answers of 9 March 1999 questions from Erik Solheim on when and how the Storting or the public would be made aware of the experience of NATO allies with the use of depleted uranium. The current Minister of Foreign Affairs Knut Vollebæk replied by letter of 7 July 1999 to questions from Mr Hallgeir H. Langeland, Minister of Health Dagfinn Høybräten’s absence, related to NATO’s use of radioactive armoury ammunition to which uranium 238 was added in the Balkans, including the measures taken by the government, and the guarantees given to Norwegian personnel. Health Minister Tore Tønne also replied by letter of 21 November 2000 to questions from the representative of Langeland about the implementation of specific measures by the Government and the prevention of adverse effects by exposed personnel to dust from depleted uranium. In addition, by letter of 4 January this year, the representative Lisbet Rugtved asked me questions in writing about the Government's intention to initiate investigations into soldiers who have participated in the Balkans and whether the Government will take the initiative to clean up the pollution damage caused by the use of depleted uranium in the Balkans. I have found it natural to see this letter in connection with the briefing I give to Stortinget today, and I have informed the representative Ruggtved of this in writing. In all the answers my colleagues have given, there is evidence that the evidence that has been available has not provided the basis for implementing specific actions. The responses from Vollebæk and Tønne show that there have been no indications that Norwegian personnel have been exposed to levels of exposure that could pose a health risk, but that the situation would be continuously assessed in close cooperation with other countries participating in the KFOR team. There is currently no new information to change this, and I agree with the assessments given by the then Minister of Defence, Fjærvoll and the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, Vollebæk, and the current Minister of Health, Tore Tønne. The fact that the defence in parallel with this process has provided personnel on the way to Kosovo's service with information on the potential hazards of various types of pollution in the area, including dust from depleted uranium, is not in contrast to what the previous and current government has provided to the Storting. The actions of the defence in this context have not been considered as specific actions in a specific situation but as part of normal procedures in preparation for international operations. I'll come back to this aspect, i.e. the information provided to the soldiers, later on in the statement. First of all, some facts about what we're talking about: uranium is a naturally occurring element in rock species. The most widely known use of uranium is in nuclear weapons and as a fuel in nuclear reactors. In order to be exploitable for such purposes, uranium must be used through a process called enrichment. After enrichment, a residue called depleted uranium is left – in English ‘depleted uranium’, abbreviated DU. Uranium depleted contains about half of the radioactivity present in naturally occurring uranium. Among all radioactive substances you know, including plutonium, radium, radon, cesium and strontium are depleted uranium one of the least radioactive. Uranium depleted has many civilian and military uses. It is used for the armouring/arming of vehicles, in the balance scales of missiles and rockets, in aircraft, in boat coolers and as weight bars in the oil industry. In Norway, among other things, used for shielding against radioactive radiation and as ballast in keel on sailboats. I can mention that in civil aircraft of type Boeing 747, about 250 kg of depleted uranium is a balance weight. However, the most well-known — and controversial — use is as an armoury ammunition. The depleted uranium has, among other things: very high density, resulting in increased gravity and permeability. It makes depleted uranium very suitable for armor-breaking ammunition. So a few words about the use of depleted uranium in the forces of different countries. No DU ammunition has been stored or produced in Norway. Nor has such ammunition ever been used by Norwegian forces or on our shooting grounds. Ammunition with depleted uranium, however, occurs in several countries in the world, including outside the NATO region. It is known that munitions of depleted uranium were used in the 1991 Gulf War and in the 1994-95 war in Bosnia and the former Yugoslavia in 1999. The use of depleted uranium in Bosnia was confirmed by NATO only in December 2000. To the extent that the quantity of uranium-containing ammunition consumed is relevant for the assessment of potential health hazards, we can see that the amount of depleted uranium used in the conflicts in the Balkans – i.e. in Bosnia in 1994-95 and in Yugoslavia in 1999 – is less than 5 pst. of the total amount used during the Gulf War. Very few risk assessments have been carried out on pollution caused by depleted uranium. Very much of the information available in international literature is based on exposure to naturally occurring uranium. As I have explained earlier, depleted uranium is far less radioactive than natural uranium or enriched uranium used in nuclear power stations and in nuclear weapons. The source of radiation must enter the body in practice in order to have harmful effects. This is done for all foreign toxins through one or more of the following entry ports: by inhalation of the lungs, by ingestion of food and drink into the stomach and intestine, or by direct absorption through the skin or ulcers into the skin. It is then important to distinguish between the effects of soluble uranium compounds and the effects of non-soluble uranium compounds, as these are handled differently in the body. According to the U.S. RAND Institute, no adverse health effects have yet been observed after inhalation of depleted or natural uranium. The development of lung and skin cancer in workers in the U.S. uranium industry has been carefully investigated, and these workers have no higher incidence of lung cancer than the rest of the population. Of the 19 000 workers employed in the uranium industry between 1943 and 1947, no increase in the number of cancer cases was measured until 1974, when the studies were carried out. Similar results are available for the development of bone cancer, i.e. that no increase was measured in the number of cases. However, in the case of high-enriched uranium exposure, the development of a number of cancers has been demonstrated, but depleted uranium is, as I said, much less radioactive than enriched uranium, and therefore the results cannot be compared. A number of articles in the media have claimed that soldiers in Kosovo should be at higher risk of developing leukemia after exposure to depleted uranium. In a normal population of 1 million people, there are 50-100 cases of leukemia per person. age group 20-45. Based on existing knowledge of radioactive substances, there is very little likelihood that the number of cases of leukemia will increase after exposure to depleted uranium. However, in accordance with the World Health Organisation’s assessment, we should not draw final conclusions on this matter until we have carried out further investigations. Gro Harlem Brundtland has recently informed that the World Health Organisation will provide a summary of this issue in February. I put a lot of emphasis on that for my part. Inhalation of small amounts of depleted uranium dust is generally considered to have minor health effects. Breathing in high concentration air with depleted uranium must be avoided as far as possible. depleted uranium deposited in the lungs could pose a threat and pose a real risk to the development of long-term cancer after exposure. Soluble uranium compounds are readily absorbed into the body and may lead to damage to, inter alia, the kidneys, but these injuries are usually not permanent. On the other hand, there are no known serious health effects of uranium dust on skin exposure. Opinions from organisations such as: State radiation protection and the State Institute for Public Health suggest that in most cases the low radioactivity in depleted uranium produces low radiation doses. The Defence Research Institute has not found evidence that during the Gulf War, by inhalation or through food and drink, soldiers must have been exposed to levels of depleted uranium that could lead to adverse health effects. This is because, in general, the body’s defences against and elimination of uranium compounds are effective. However, one cannot exclude that some persons may have been exposed to higher doses and injured. This is a primary objective of future studies. We are also aware that France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Canada and the United Kingdom have carried out health investigations of staff serving in the Balkans. No correlation between service and health damage has been demonstrated in these studies. In my reply in Stortinget on 10 January, I involved a study of the military sanity carried out by Norwegian veterans from the Gulf War in 1991. I would like to explain this study in more detail. At a relatively early stage, there was a possible overoccurrence of disease among US Gulf veterans in the United States. The United States participated in a total of 697 000 people stationed in the Gulf under Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm. This implies that, irrespective of causality, there will be a large number of sick people in such a large population at a given time after the war. Norway had a sanitary company of 232 people stationed in Saudi Arabia for three months. The personnel were present during the war acts themselves. In addition, K/V ‘Andenes’ participated as a support vessel for a Danish corvette stationed relatively far out in the Persian Gulf. Based on reports of disease among US veterans, in August 1993, the Defense launched a survey of Norwegian Gulf veterans serving at the Sanitation Company. Due to a lack of response, the study was repeated in 1994. All those who suggested health problems were contacted in writing or orally for appropriate follow-up. Of the 150 responses, 67 indicated that the state of health had changed since the Gulf War. It turned out that 42 of these had minor or transitory plagues, small injuries, influenza, etc., but there were still 25 people. Among these, two diagnostic groups dominated: breathing problems and memory problems. The first category was referred to very extensive cardiovascular/pulmonary studies at the Glittaklinik. However, no pathological findings were detected in any of them. Personnel complaining about memory problems — especially complaints about short-term memory — were examined in a cooperation project between the National Psychosomatic Department and the Office of Psychiatry in the Sanity of Defence. Nor was there any abnormal findings found. The studies were suspended in 1999, as no significant findings were made. The above statement shows that participation in the Gulf War was known to pose a health risk in the Norwegian skilled medical military environment, and action was taken in 1993-1995 to detect possible health damage among Norwegian personnel. As I explained last week, a health study will now be provided for all personnel who have served in international operations since 1 January 1990. This includes staff who have served in Lebanon, the Gulf, Somalia and the Balkans. The studies must be very thorough. It is important that uncertainty is not subsequently linked to the seriousness of the studies. Therefore, the defence will involve experts from different disciplines and cooperate with the Cancer Register, the State Radiation Protection Agency, the State Institute for Public Health and the State Institute for Safety and Health at Work. Let me again stress that service in peace operations could be associated with a certain risk. It's in the nature of the matter. The task of the defence is thus three-fold: firstly, to take measures to minimise the risk; secondly, to ensure that the soldiers are as familiar with and accept as far as possible the risks they may be exposed to by participating in this type of service; and thirdly, it is necessary to ensure appropriate health follow-up after completion of the service. As regards the first two measures, the risk is minimised by adapting equipment, training and local measures to the threat in question. Acknowledgment of the current risk must be ensured through pre-departure information, during the outbound period and after completion of the mission. These are actions currently carried out by the Defence as part of common procedures against international service personnel. However, further improvement in these areas is now being taken into account in the St.melding. No 38 for 1998-99, and I am pleased that broad political support for this communication was found during the course of the course of the course of the course of the course of the last spring in Stortinget. With regard to the post-closure follow-up point, this must be done through pre-, during and after-service planning to ensure that all soldiers who develop mental or physical distress are captured by the health care system as early as possible. In this context, active pilot studies in relevant areas of intervention are of particular importance. In the case of health reporting procedures for Norwegian staff in the Balkans, Norway has good routines. However, we do not have a satisfactory follow-up system for the personnel after completion of the service. In this way, the establishment of a health register will be an important and crucial tool for ‘medical intelligence’ in the future. So a few words about Kosovo. The deployment – or for those who are not members of the Defence Committee, the deployment – of quota I, the Telemark Battalion, took place in the month-end of September/October 1999. In advance, a reconnaissance study in July 1999 revealed that air pollution, industrial pollution, possible residues from chemical fighting agents and the use of DU ammunition were the most recent sources of health risk in Kosovo. I explained in my reply on 10 January for these tests. Air pollution was most concerned, the second possible residue from chemical fighting agents. Industrial pollution was a risk taken into account when entering the relevant areas, while pollution from DU ammunition, i.e. ammunition with depleted uranium, was not considered to constitute a particularly high health risk, because it was considered that the ammunition was not used in the Norwegian territory. In retrospect, this has been shown to be essentially correct, with the exception of a position northeast of Pristina which was part of the Telemark Battalion's operating area until the Swedish battalion was in place at the end of October 1999. In addition, there were two positions in the then Canadian area that NORBN II took over at the beginning of May 2000. These specific details were not known for the first quota, but local measures were taken from May 2000. The Defence Manager first became familiar with this specific information concerning Norwegian territory on 3 January 2001. Prior to deployment, information was provided for the personnel who also included the security rules related to DU ammunition. Despite the lack of evidence of potential health risks associated with residence and movement in areas where such ammunition has been used, personnel were warned not to enter house and armoured vehicles without prior clearance by qualified personnel. This has been part of the standing order of the Norwegian battalion from the time the Telemark Battalion deployed as the first quota, i.e. in 1999. Special equipment with personal dosimeters, advanced equipment for measuring radiation and sufficient number of protective suits and masks were distributed, as part of the normal procedure. I refer to my answer in the Questionnaire last week. Based on the knowledge you had at the time, which is otherwise not more detailed today, I would like to stress that the defense has done what could be done to prepare and protect Norwegian personnel. I would like to reiterate here that the defence measures in this context have not been considered as specific measures in a special situation, but as part of normal procedures and a natural part of the responsibility of local managers in the preparation for deployment in international operations. So a few words about the flow of information. In any case, in relation to what I have now said, it has raised questions about when and how Norwegian personnel have been informed about the possible adverse effects of contact or inhalation of particles containing depleted uranium, as well as the safety provisions to be followed. I therefore signaled in my statement on 10 January that I would come back to various aspects of the information flow. On 30 June 1999, the Washington Armed Forces sent a briefing to NATO military headquarters in Belgium, SHAPE. This briefing has been mentioned in the media recently. The notification shall have the following title: ‘Depleted uranium Hazard awareness during operations in Kosovo’. [[DU]] The notification provides general guidance on the behaviour of personnel in cases where they have to enter armoured vehicles taken by ammunition with depleted uranium. Approved respiratory protection shall be used and bare skin shall be covered. This message was sent on NATO channels to KFOR in Kosovo. Countries that had not yet deployed forces did not receive this information. The content of the notification became known to the Norwegian NATO delegation only on 6 October 1999. After direct contact with SHAPE, the message was sent to me. The defense's overcommanded the same day. As far as we can see, this communication was not followed up properly. Like other information, the defence management was not informed until 3 January of this year. This is not meant to be an implied discharge on behalf of the head of defence, it is in any case my responsibility and the responsibility of former defence ministers. As regards this specific document, questions can therefore be asked whether the flow of information between NATO and the Member States, including Norway, has been good enough. Similarly, it may seem that the information flow within the defense here at home was not good enough, with the consequence that not all personnel received satisfactory training at this particular point. However, it is also clear that the Norwegian main force received relevant information as part of the normal defence procedures. But this is, in any case, critical. The procedures need to be improved to ensure that all available information is maintained during preparation for and during an international operation. The Defence Manager identified this need during his visit to Kosovo in the summer of 2000 and, in light of this, an advisory group is set up to assist him in assessing health, environmental and safety issues. Staff from a number of professional staff as well as from the Defence Research Institute shall be represented in this group. This is an important initiative and it is essential that the group has a central role to play in ensuring good information flow within the Defence. It is obvious that during the training period in Norway and at the time of deployment, personnel shall be provided with all information relevant to their personnel safety. So some words about the treatment in NATO. Treatment of the issue in NATO, including the UN, has also been of importance for treatment in Norway. As I have explained earlier, Norway, as one of the few countries, has previously raised issues in NATO related to potential adverse effects of the use of depleted uranium during the Kosovo conflict. This happened at a meeting of the NATO Permanent Council on 8 May 1999. On 28 July 1999, the UN asked NATO for information on the environmental impact of the Kosovo conflict. In particular, information on the use of DU ammunition during the NATO air campaign in Kosovo was relevant. NATO received a request from the UN on 14 October 1999. Information from NATO Member States was requested from the UN to enable a final assessment of the effects of depleted uranium on the environment. NATO was therefore requested to assist the UN Special Balkan Group with relevant information. On the side of NATO, there was an agreement to respond positively, and with the greatest possible transparency. The subsequent treatment in the civil and military bodies of NATO showed that there was agreement to confirm the use of depleted uranium, its mode of use, its extent and geographical location with a detailed map indication. This information was transmitted in a letter from the NATO Secretary-General to the UN Secretary-General on 7 February 2000. In the same letter, NATO's desire for further cooperation with the United Nations bodies on this issue was underlined. Since the question of any health consequences had not been raised by the United Nations, this was not specifically addressed in NATO’s replies. NATO received new enquiries from the United Nations on 9 and 17 May 2000, requesting further information on the use of depleted uranium explosives, with precise map identification of sites. The enquiry was answered in detail by NATO and followed up by meetings with the UN Environment Programme, UNEP, on 21 September 2000. It was concluded that UNEP, with the support of NATO, would carry out a field study on the relevant areas of Kosovo. In this context, there has also been contact between NATO and the International Red Cross Committee on the use of depleted uranium in Kosovo. The question was discussed in a meeting of the NATO Council and the Red Cross on 23 December 1999. NATO received a written request from the Red Cross on the same question in May 2000. The information provided by NATO's Red Cross has been based on the information provided by the United Nations. So a few words about the follow-up to the Italian initiative. The issue of a link between the development of leukemia and the use of depleted uranium ammunition was re-updated in NATO on 22 December last year through an Italian enquiry. The matter was discussed in the civil and military bodies of NATO on 9 January this year, and provision was made for a briefing on the allied discussions on the same day. On the basis of these discussions, the Council of NATO decided on 10 January this year to take the following measures: 1st@item: inlistbox NATO will release all available information on targets taken with depleted uranium ammunition in Bosnia between 1994 and 95. The information will be made available as soon as possible.2. NATO will cooperate fully with UNEP, if the UN decides to extend the ongoing studies related to depleted uranium in Kosovo to Bosnia.3. NATO member countries will exchange information and data related to health risks associated with the use of DU ammunition.4. A working group on the exchange of information on potential health risks associated with the use of depleted uranium ammunition is hereby established for all allied and corporal partner countries, as well as for civil, local and international organisations. This group had its first meeting on 16 January.5. NATO shall assess the possibilities for marking the areas where depleted uranium has been used in Kosovo for the removal of such material.6. The non-all countries contributing will be actively involved in the further work, which is also open to the participation of relevant international organisations. As I pointed out at the outset, it cannot be excluded that in a former war zone that Kosovo could exist other types of harmful legacy. An important task for all concerned will therefore be to obtain an overview of any hazards in this way. This will be an important task for the alliance in cooperation with civil authorities. In this context, I would like to mention that the Norwegian engineering company in Kosovo has contributed to site studies relating to, among others, previous use of flue gases. This report is being discussed in NATO. The Minister for Foreign Affairs of Yugoslavia requested information on the use of DU ammunition against targets in Yugoslavia in a meeting with the NATO ambassadors on 10 January. The Secretary-General of NATO has proposed that such information be provided through direct contact between the military authorities of NATO and the Yugoslav military authorities. We have supported this proposal on the Norwegian side. It has been suggested that NATO should declare a so-called moratorium, i.e. a temporary halt in the use of DU ammunition until health consequences have been identified. As you know, there is no military battle going on that is up-to-date on the use of depleted uranium ammunition. If so, it is my view that such ammunition should not be used as long as medical causality is not clarified. This will be used as a basis for the Norwegian position in NATO bodies to address the issue, where appropriate. In that case, this is not a prohibition, but a self-imposed restriction. It should be maintained, with hardly any large NATO country being allowed to ‘forbid’ its own weapons before scientific studies provide a basis for this, especially as long as the scientific indications go in the opposite direction. From the Norwegian side, we want to cooperate with our NATO allies with a view to achieving a unified allying of all issues related to the use of depleted uranium ammunition. A meeting of the Member States’ health managers on 15 January found that a link between depleted uranium and leukemia could not be established. The health managers concluded that there is a need for a review of all reports of an increased incidence of symptoms or diseases. Of course, if the medical studies that will be conducted conclude that there is a link, there is a broad reassessment of the use of DU ammunition in all countries that have such weapons. Some words about the actions of the Head of Government and Defence. As is well known, initiatives have now been taken to offer health surveys to all personnel who have served in international operations since 1 January 1990. I have also made it clear that these studies have to take into account that we can face a more comprehensive cause complex. In view of longer-term measures, I am pleased to note that the head of defence has invited the civil service organisations in the Defence for a constructive dialogue and that the organisations have expressed confidence in the process that is now under way. The Defence Manager met with relevant civil servants’ organisations in the Defence Department on 8 January this year. In addition to that health check, the action plan includes, inter alia: the following areas: Military and civil health records shall be interconnected. Thus, in the long term, any links with international services can be identified. Health, environment and safety shall be incorporated into ‘International Operations Guidelines’. The monitoring of information processing in the context of Norwegian participation in the Balkans shall be carried out with the aim of improving procedures, including improving the efficiency of the follow-up of personnel. Extensive information work shall be carried out to restore credibility and restore «security» for its own personnel and its dependants. Develop ‘I know’ declarations to ensure that the necessary information has been provided to all personnel who will participate in international operations for the future. Norwegian participation in NATO meetings on the problem of depleted uranium is a matter of course. The Swedish Defence Research Institute is in the process of implementing a project to develop procedures and technical solutions for monitoring the environment in Norwegian departments during international operations. This shall provide the basis for rapid action in the event of unacceptable chemical, radiological and biological exposures. I think the head of defence has followed up his responsibilities in this area in a trusting way. Nevertheless, a review of the case shows that we can do a better job, and I refer to this statement. It is important that we take good care of our personnel in the context of – and after – international operations. The staff shall be required to do everything possible to minimise the risk and to ensure that professional assistance is provided as necessary. I would therefore like to take the initiative to ensure that, as part of normal routines, good health studies are established before, at the end of and one year after the staff have completed international service. Personnel must feel confident that any damage is caught early and that they are offered treatment. This is about providing security to personnel preparing for their country in demanding international operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-18.ana.ud1039e213	The President will propose that the Minister of Defence's statement be discussed at a later meeting in the Grand Duchy. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
